ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u1	Please take your seats. We're reconvening. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Senator Henryk Cioch, senator of the 8th term and member of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, judge of the Constitutional Tribunal has died. Please rise and honor the memory of the late Senator with a minute's silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2018 as the Year of Scouts. Welcome to the meeting of guests, representatives of national and foreign scout organizations. I would like to welcome you all very cordially. [[Applause]] Welcome to the President of the Polish Scouting Association in London; Commander Hufca, Volyn, Polish Scouts in Ukraine; representative of Scouting Hufca, Volyn, Polish Scouts in Ukraine; representatives of the Polish Scouts in Ukraine, Lviv; president of the Polish Scouts Association, RSZ, Belarus; head of the Polish Scouts Association; representatives of the Polish Scouts Association; chairman of the Association of Scouts of the Republic; President of the European Scouts Association. I would like to welcome you all very cordially. I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No. 687, and the committee's report In print No 687 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! I have the honour to present to the High Senate a resolution of the Senate establishing the year 2018 the Year of Scouts, tabled by a group of senators from the Parliamentary Scouts Team in Poland and abroad. I must say that this idea of announcing the Year of Scouts was born in some pains, because 2018 is primarily the year of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, so that there were some doubts. During this time, in 1918, many activities and institutions were born, which will celebrate 100 years next year, including Boy Scouts. On 1 and 2 November 1918, a union convention took place in Lublin, where the Polish Scouting and Scouting Association was established from 3 partitions. But it was also claimed that the Boy Scouts played a major part in maintaining the independence of Lviv's defender, the participants defending us against the Bolshevik storm. It also had a great part in building awareness and independence before 1918 and in building a modern state in the following years. This initiative was taken by the Polish Scouts Association in the person of the bridesmaid of Małgorzata Sinica, whom I warmly welcome. But the resolution includes all scouts, all scouts and scouts. I thank the Legislative Committee very much for leaning over this resolution and this initiative. Scout organisations have planned many events and programme work, educational work on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Thanks to this resolution, these works and events will become even more solemn and even deeper. It all started in 1911 when Andrzej Małkowski gave an order to set up the first scout teams on May 22. Order, because scouting is different from world scouting, that we say scouting is scouting. And independence. Polish Skauting was born during the struggle for independence, and a fight for independence, patriotic upbringing was added to this trend of scouting. Andrzej Małkowski translated Baden-Powell's book "Scouting for Boys', appointed the first teams, and also, you can say colloquially, went from village to village and founded these teams, among others. in Tarnów, Dębica, mainly between Lviv and Krakow. The first Scout Command was established in Lviv. However, already in 1910 in Krakow, or the year before, the Ravens' replacement was created, which will also be assumed as the first moment of the Boy Scouting in Polish lands. It is extremely important that it was Andrzej Małkowski who gave the Scouts an extraordinary dimension through such three important charisms: service to God, independence and abstinence. That's what made us special. And when the Boy Scouts showed up at the Birmingham convention in Britain, it was already obvious that it was a little more than scouting. We're referring to that. Of course, it is possible to talk about these 3 charisms of Małkowski for a long time, but there is also the fourth one, which was extremely important. This fourth charism of Małkowski is like this: the whole life With all my life, so not only throughout my life, but also with every breath, to serve God, Poland and others with all my life. Because scouting isn't some kind of pedagogical trick, it's a way of life. Scouts raised many generations of young people who served, also in defense of their homeland. Many Boy Scouts strengthened the Polish Legions in 1914. In 1918 there was the defense of Lviv, then the war with the Bolsheviks, and then, as we remember, we know this story very well, there were Grey Rangers, and the Grey Rangers are not only scouts, but also this action aimed at young people, including many more people, not only scouts and scouts. Ex-Hufce Polskie, there was a scout's emergency room. They all associate these projects during World War II with armed combat, and it was just a small fragment. In general, the Grey Troops and other organizations were still thinking about raising young people, about how to protect them from the cataclysm of war. Today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, when the war will be over, was a good symbol for this. Since 1911, scouting has been present in our social and national life every day. The realities and needs changed, but the service of God, Poland and neighbor was still fulfilled, needed. She taught young people a course of life, goals and values. They tried to ridicule scouts in the times of the Polish People's Republic. When it was not destroyed by administrative methods, they tried to ridicule it. He was given an infantile dimension, depicted as scouts in short short shorts running in the woods. Unfortunately, this has largely worked out, but we know that this is not a full picture, that this is not a real picture. It's not easy to change it. Of course, a great scouting card is tied to the Anders Army. We have in our archives a lot of scout books published in Palestine, including scouting crosses, which were slaughtered in Palestine. We're familiar with the Fr. Peszkowski's prelate there, in this army, was a scout instructor. General Anders led entire families out of Soviet Russia. There were many young people and children there and General Anders said: we need to create a Boy Scouts for them, not only to take their time, because these are future generations that will need Poland. The Silesian Voivode Michał Grażyński, the pre-war president of ZHP, provided continuity of ZHP with other instructors and instructors until today. To this day, his white rope, a sign of this function, is in London. We have a friend Robert Rospedzihowski, who continues this tradition. Scouting kept the deposit of independence and continuity of organizational, legal, ideological, programmatic and methodical. In 2013, I reported ZHP operating outside the country for the Memorial Guard Award. This award was not awarded to the union, but then I asked the London Governor for materials, documents that I could attach to this proposal. Allow me to quote just a few pictures: 1913, Birmingham Next photos: General Władysław Anders in the company of ZHP chiefs at the rally of the 50th anniversary of the Boy Scouts of England, 1960; world rally commander, Harcmaster Ryszard Kaczorowski, then president of ZHP, speaks at Monte Cassino. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely beautiful card of our history, including our struggle for independence. Another card is Boy Scouts in the East: in Lithuania, Ukraine, Belarus, Latvia. There's a lot to talk about. We are very pleased that the representatives of these organizations are with us. We greet Stefan Adamski's friend from Lviv, who is not with us today, but his representatives are here. Of course, the fate of Boy Scouts in Poland after World War II was very difficult. Scout teams were formed spontaneously in liberated areas. The Lublin Government appointed the General Council at its discretion. But then, in 1948 and 1949, the Scouts were broken down, disbanded, destroyed, founded the Polish Youth Union, and in this organization the Scouts Organization of the People's Poland. It is also worth saying that by 1956 there was a very strong scouting conspiracy fighting armedly and with the communist authorities, and with the Soviet invader. Then it was 1956 and the appointment of ZHP, the return of many pre-war instructors led by Alexander Kaminski and Józef Grzesiak. It took a short time, then came a difficult time of struggle. We kept discussing whether to be with young people or not to have anything to do with the authorities. However, educators were more likely to believe that they needed to be with young people. But as such a difficulty appeared the Scout Service of Socialist Poland. And came the year 1980, when on the wave of changes related to the Solidarity, the Circles of Scouting Instructors were formed. Andrzej Małkowski, and later, when there was martial law, the Scout Movement in Conspiracy and the Scout Movement of the Republic. Very important events were scouting white services during the pilgrimages of the Holy Father. In 1989 the ZHR, the Association of Polish Scouts was established the year of founding 1918, the Wizards. We know that pluralism is a value, but not necessarily in the case of scout uniforms. We in Girl Scouts say that brotherhood is more important than pluralism. Many prewar instructors have asked for this unity. We know it's not easy. Of course, it's a long time and a close time at the same time. Because when we talk about the year 1911, it seems that it was over 100 years ago, but we had the opportunity, many of us sitting in this room, to meet the participants of this story. I will start with scout Richard Kaczorowski, president of ZHP outside the country, later president of the Lightest Republic in exile; scout Stanisław Broniewski, Orszy, chief of the Grey Troops, with whom I had the opportunity to meet and cooperate many times; scout Zofia Florczak, appointed head of scouts after the war; finally, Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska, who lived in Zakopane for many years and with whom the instructor of my tribe Bolesław Leonhard met many times. She is also the mother of the scout Janek Bytnar, the one who was released from German hands in action at Arsenal. At the hands of Janek Bytnar's mother, I had the opportunity to make a scouting vow, and Janek Bytnar himself was the patron of my team. Krysia Małkowska-Żaba, Andrzej Małkowski's granddaughter, is also present in this series of characters, who has been meeting with us in Poland many times recently. I had the opportunity to make such an emotional journey with her to Sromovce, where her mom Olga Małkowska built a school and a whole resort. There, the tallest people came to Malkowska, so to speak, nobles, the scouting movement in the world. There's a lot to talk about these great old and new people. But history is also, and perhaps above all, our future. Examples attract, encourage, but also show that a weak man can do much. They also commit, because many have given their time, efforts, health and life to Poland, for us, to defend values. Why is scouting so important today? The need for values in every generation, ethics rooted in society. It was seen in 1989 and today there are great mutilations after the times of the Polish People's Republic. And social development needs ethics. Economic development, too. We have mentioned in this House several times the Nobel prizes from economics, and, after all, the scientists who drew up the conditions for economic development, human capital, stressed the importance of ethics for social and economic development. It is, of course, very difficult to build. Whoever did this knows it. This is a joint effort of parents, teachers, priests, educators. This, of course, requires social consent for good upbringing and values. That's why in the Senate we go back to these things and these thoughts. There was a resolution about the need to build an educational atmosphere, there were resolutions on the 100th anniversary of the Boy Scouts, about the Zawiszaks, about Andrzej and Olga Małkowski, about Fr. Phm. Stefan Wincenty Frelichowski in order to build himself and young people, above all himself, because education is about building good in ourselves and doing it with others. But in 2017, the question arises: will we keep the Boy Scout's banner? Will Boy Scouting survive as an authentic educational movement? Not as folklore, replaying the past, uniforms and customs, but as an authentic movement reading the signs of the times, responding to new tasks and new challenges. The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids, will you hold the Boy Scout's banner and will it fly high? John Paul II repeatedly met with scouts and scouts in Poland and abroad. Everywhere he was, outside Poland, he was meeting with Poles. There were also Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts in this group. In his statements he set out a wonderful program for Boy Scouting, a educational program. In 1983, on Jasna Góra, he said, "What do I feel?" It means I'm trying to be a man of conscience. That I'm not jamming that conscience and distorting it. I call good and evil by name. ♪ I'm awake ♪ I can see the other one. I don't lock myself in a tight backyard of my own business or my own judgment. That is, love of neighbor, that is, basic human solidarity. And finally. ♪ I'm awake ♪ It also means: I feel responsible for this great common heritage, whose name is Poland. It's the name that defines us all. That name obliges us all. That name costs us all. And what it costs is worth it. In 1987 at Westerplatte he spoke to young people and numerous scouts gathered like this: "Each of you, young friends, finds in life some of your Westerplatte. Some dimension of the tasks he has to undertake and fulfill. Some right case you can't fight for. There's a duty, a duty that can't be avoided, can't be deserted. Finally, there is an order of truths and values that must be maintained and defended, just like Westerplatte, about itself. Protect for yourself and for others. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! The goal of Boy Scouts is to defend values, raise and serve. John Paul II in 1999 in Toruń gave the Boy Scouts patronage, Blessed John Paul II. Fr. Phm. Stefan Wincenty Frelichowski A wonderful, young, joyful, who left us a beautiful diary, where he described his youthful struggles with himself as well as his thoughts. We know that new times are difficult. The information society and the knowledge economy are being built. It's changing a lot. You have to understand the cultural code of young people and give them values. It's not easy in civilization, as you say, right thumb. Although lately, I've seen that even two thumbs work very fast. You have to get to these people because there's something about these young people. I have to say, in 2005, I'm the director of Digital. There's a wall across from our headquarters, a kindergarten fence. And there was a beautiful graffiti on that wall with John Paul. II. Every now and then, there's another new graffiti with John Paul. Next to them are, let's say, youth graffiti. I realized that young people feel inside like we do, but we need to get to them, we need to understand their forms of communication. This is our common challenge: how to convey the attitude of service to God, Poland and others? When in the PRL in the state of war the circles of them were solved. Andrzej Małkowski, KIHAM circle, we wanted to pass on the most important things to the next generation. The text of the law and the Boy Scouting Promise, the text sanctified by the blood of many scouting generations. In September 1982, we placed on Jasna Góra a votive in the form of a table with the text of the law and the promise of a Scout. It was the first scouting pilgrimage to Jasna Góra. They continue to this day. We wanted to entrust the Boy Scouting to Our Lady and give it to store our most important deposit, the deposit of an independent spirit. In their circles, of course. The Małkowski underground department of the Boy Scouting movement, later the Scouting Movement of the Republic. We have no doubt that scouting only makes sense when it's a value keeper. In all conditions, even when no one requires, even when it costs very much, young people take up challenges, but these must be wise challenges. I would now like to present the content of the draft resolution establishing 2018 as the Year of Scouting. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2018 as the Year of Scouts. In 2018 we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. The years 1918-1922, in which the process of rebirth and unification of the Republic took place, were sometimes an extraordinary spontaneous break-up, struggle and work in all dimensions of state, national and social life. All over the country, Polish scouts, created from 1910 following the scouting of Robert Baden-Powell, whose educational principles were strongly saturated with native elements of patriotism, moral upbringing and the shaping of physical life of young people, took part in all activities. On May 22, 1911, Andrzej Małkowski gave the first order in Lviv calling the command and the first scout teams. Since then, we can say that scouting is a scouting plus independence. To this tradition and established on November 1, 1918 from scouting and scouting organizations from the three partitions of the Polish Scouting Association, all scouting organizations operating in Poland and abroad, with the Polish Scouting Association outside the country, which in the post-war period of communist enslavement held the deposit of the independence of organizational, legal, ideological, programme and methodical continuity of Polish scouting. The Senate of the Republic of Poland commends the activities of Polish Boy Scouts. Today we recall the magnificent defenders of Lviv, Eagles and Girl Scouts, fighting the Bolshevik Uprising in 1920. We recall the Grey Rangers, the Boy Scouts and the Hufce Polskie fighting the German invader. We recall those who fought in conspiracy with the communist authority and the Soviet invader in 1944 and in later years: Scouts of Unhappiness, including the Circles of Scouting Instructors. Andrzej Małkowski, the Scout Movement and the Scout Movement of the Republic of Poland. Today we recall many generations of scouts and scouts who raised young people and built modern society, rebuilt our country after both world wars and helped those in need. The service of Boy Scouts and Boy Scouts in the country and abroad has become permanent in our history and in our hearts. After a hundred years, subsequent generations of Polish youth undertake to continue the work of the founders of Boy Scouts, as well as those who in 1918 gave this activity a new impetus and dimension. Today, the Association of Polish Scouts, the Association of Scouts of the Republic of Poland, the Association of Scouts of Europe, the Association of Catholic Scouts, the Association of Polish Scouts outside the country, scouts organizations in the East and other scouts organizations continue this work. This work, so important to our society, deserves recognition and support. We hope that for years to come, scouting will be an indication for young people in making decisions of life, a challenge and a field of service to God, Poland and Gemini, for the sake of our Nation and State. The establishment by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2018 of the Year of Scouts is an emphasis on the recognition of the merits of Polish Scouting and its future role in the upbringing of the young generation. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please accept this resolution. The most important message is memory and gratitude, future role and hope, service to God, Poland and neighbor, for the benefit of our nation and state. John Paul II said: "You must be strong. Dear brothers and sisters! You must be strong with the power of faith! You must be strong in your faith! You must be faithful! Today you need this power more than in any age of history. The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids, I wish you this power with all my heart. Be strong! Watch out! God bless you! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u3	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Kazimierz Wind to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'm gonna ask Senator Jan Zarin to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! I'd like to start. I also encourage the other senators to do so, although this may extend our discussion from expressions of gratitude and personal expressions of gratitude. Probably a lot of us, as we are here in this room, or we were scouts, or we owe the Boy Scouts a lot. I'm part of the second category. I wasn't a Boy Scout, but I owe the Boy Scouts a lot. And I would like to express my gratitude on this occasion, because it doesn't take very long to walk through life with debt. And this debt relates primarily to the fact to me undeniable that all my children, Anna, Staś and Krzyś, our children, my wife and mine, have passed through the ranks of the Association of Scouts of the Republic. And it can be said that the ZHR was the organization and the scouting structure that was accompanying my children. They were together on this educational journey very specific scouts, Ela Skatulska, sleep. Konrad Obrębski, one of the most outstanding scouts in the Third Republic. This list, of course, is longer, but at least these two names I'd like to remind you of. This debt of gratitude is also meetings with outstanding Polish Boy Scouts, which I owe a great deal to because they influenced my specific life decisions. One of them was family, you can say, scouting for many decades, means sleep. Prof. Tomasz Strzembosz and his brother Prof. Adam Strzembosz, sleep. Thomas and his wonderful wife, sleep. Maryla Davidowska, Alka's sister, the most famous Alek we know. Thanks to Tom Strzembosz I also met Mr Stanisław Orsza-Broniewski, a man from such a different, in a sense, world than the world that dominated then, peer-postpeerelowski, that as if he was in some other orbit, and he was in the right orbit. And together in the 1990s, we established a Committee for the Remembrance of Poles Saving Jews, which still exists and whose founding members were among others. sleep. Thomas Strzembosz and sleep. Stanisław Orsza-Broniewski. I was also lucky to meet Soulka, Janek Bytnar's sister, because she was my mother's neighbor, and they became friends, how easy to imagine, and therefore also I, when I visited my mother, could see her. I don't want to prolong this list too much, these personal memories, because this podium may not be the right place, but I encourage you to remember on this occasion how much each of us most likely owes to the Boy Scouts, to those particular people who have remained in memory somewhere in the way of our lives. I would also like to remind you, in addition to giving this certificate concerning my meetings with Boy Scouts, that this year of independent 2018 is the 100th anniversary of regaining independence It is a year which itself suggests that special praise and gratitude should be given to Polish Boy Scouts. Professor Kazimierz Wind very nicely presented here In its resolution itself, it is also the history of scouting. I'd like to raise two points, well, maybe three points if I make it. The first thing is undoubtedly the question of the holiness of the Polish Boy Scouts. I am not a priest and I have no reason to enter into the language of theology, but I can say that in this 100th anniversary of Polish Boy Scouts we have from the very beginning to deal with the work of Boy Scouts, friends to make their pupils holy people. From a Christian heritage point of view, that is what it must be called. And no wonder that in this way on the way, in this 100th anniversary we are dealing with very many priests. I just want to remind you of one character, Fr. Kazimierz Lutosławski, because this is one of those who co-created Boy Scouts. I hope that on this 100th anniversary... the whole wonderful Lutosławski family with our great composer will be honoured, but I hope that especially Fr. Kazimierz Lutosławski, one of the co-founders, next to the marriage of Małkowski, Polish Boy Scouts. The shape, the appearance of the lilies was all his fault. Second line. Scouts, of course, were apolitical and we would like to see them. Today's break-up of the Boy Scouting, which the Professor mentioned, is not exactly the result of political life, it is more historically complex. But it must be said that Polish Boy Scouts have never been apolitical or antipolitical. No. Scouts in the Second Republic are at the same time people with very clear views, very clear views of independence, belonging to many political camps according to their sympathies. Undoubtedly, it must also be said that they existed, particularly strongly marking their presence in the 2 main ideological and political trends of the Second Republic of Poland, were scouts of the soccer team and scouts of the national camp. I would like this to have its expression in our discussion, because these environments in the Second Republic of Poland, if it is possible to use this word, are mastered by Polish youth independence, this youth scouting, which was in the Grey Ranks, in the Scouts of Poland, in the Polish Hufcs during the Second World War. So let us pay tribute to these political camps because they raised the young generation well, also within the Polish Scouts. The great scouts were certainly Stanisław Sedlaczek, who died in the Auschwitz concentration camp in August 1941, and Jędrzej Giertych, whom I will mention again, and without a doubt the well-known Alexander Kamiński. Let it be the symbols of the Second War. Let us not forget any of these biggest trends, because there is no reason to eliminate Polish history by eliminating anyone. And finally, the third question: Boy Scouting on the road to an independent. The Polish Scouts Association in the region lasted after World War II. Undoubtedly, one of the most well-deserved scout families on the outskirts is Maria and Jędrzej Giertych's family. I would very much like that name to sound here, because all the Giertych children have in fact passed through Boy Scouts, in this spirit they were raised in a foreign country, and the Giertychs have done a great deal of good for the Polish cause. Scouting on the outskirts I'm coming to the end. It is also contemporary, and this must be said very clearly, and especially should be said by the senator, because we are in a House that looks after Polonia and Poles in the East. Well, today we see a very clear Renaissance of Boy Scouts on the outskirts of the country, because Boy Scouts have embraced, so to speak, the possession of these young Poles who are born there today, outside the country. The Senate undoubtedly thinks that I can say this for a hundred percent not only on my own behalf, but on behalf of all of us. It will support Polish Boy Scouting in exile, which is no longer in exile, because there is no reason to contest the country because we have independent Poland. However, this scouting outside the country raises in the name of the same values, which are here in Poland, because we have independent Poland. The bond between emigration... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. ...between emigration and Poland will not be so good and so effective if we do not support Polish Boy Scouts in the region. May this happen and hopefully this Poland, which today consists of many, many dozens, millions of people outside the country and in the country, can say to itself in some subsequent years that thanks to Polish Boy Scouts we are well educated as Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear bridesmaids! Ladies and gentlemen! As we read in the resolution on the establishment of 2018 as the Year of Scouts, in November 1918 there was a reunion of Polish Scouts and at night from 1 to 2 November 1918 the Polish Scouts Association was established. Scouting was created by combining the ideals and methods of scouting Robert Baden-Powell and Polish independence efforts, preparing young people through ethical and moral education, development of physical fitness and military training to fight for independent Poland. I am glad that this ethos, these ideals that shaped Polish Boy Scouts over the years, are alive to this day. I think it is worth mentioning here initiatives that have been taken by our Boy Scouts for years and which are continued to this day. As a Senator from Lower Silesia, I would like to say a few words about the rally of Granica, organized in the Krkonoše Mountains. The Rally is a nationwide scouting rally organized by Chorągiew Dolnośląska for 26 years. Its participants travel the mountain trails of the Krkonoše for 4 days and then meet for the finals in Szklarska Poręba. The number of participants in the rally has steadily increased and has recently exceeded a thousand people. It is attended by groups divided into athletics, scouts, senior scouts, wanderers, but mainly by scouts from all over Poland. Organizers of the rally, next to the Lower Silesian ZHP. hm. Stefan Mirowski, there are ZHP companies from Lower Silesia, including from my region, the Dzierzoniów Land Hufic ZHP and the ZHP Świdnica Hufic. The aim of the rally is to promote the primal ideals of scouting, such as the development of the fitness and activity of children and young people, the formation of civic awareness and service to the local community, and the development of the skills of teamwork, i.e. the ideals that Polish scouts have long been guided by. Taking this opportunity, I would like to give my warmest regards to all scouts with whom I have had the privilege of cooperating. I greet the Hufiec Land of Dzierzoniów ZHP and scouts from Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki, Leisure, as well as scouts from all over the country, as well as scouts operating outside its borders. I wish our Boy Scouting to take many interesting initiatives, including such as the Racing Granica I mentioned. Finally, I would like to thank the main initiator of the resolution establishing 2018 as the Year of Scouts, Senator, Professor Kazimierz Wind. Professor, thank you for the resolution, but thank you also for the Parliamentary Scouting Team in Poland and beyond the borders of the country, whose work you have initiated in this term of office and whose task is to support our Scouting. Let the Boy Scouts continue to work in our country, continue to develop and continue to care for our Polish values! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Dear guests! I would like to join these thanks submitted to the hands of Professor and Senator Kazimierz Wiatr for this initiative, which meets the building of the world of values, but also reminds us of historical truth. And here on the example of Polish scouting, Polish Boy Scouts over 100 years you can see how this environment These next generations of ideal, passionate young people with hot hearts It was not only educational, but also patriotic, social, charity, and in very different dimensions. I think there is no need to convince anyone here that Polish Boy Scouts have a lasting track in the history of Poland of the 20th and 21st centuries. High Izbo, I'd like to draw your attention to this thread that Senator Kazimierz Wind was talking about, but I'd like to deepen it a little bit more, because, of course, the senator couldn't say everything. Well, I would like to point out what a gift for Polish Boy Scouts and for the world of values was that St.John Paul II beatified Stefan Frelichowski's sub-harkmaster in 1999. It is an unusual figure in the history of Poland, but also in European scouting about the American I do not want to speak about. It is a figure that combines all the elements that are the foundation of what we call scouting, and at the same time tragically inscribed into the fate of our homeland by what the sub-harkmaster did. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the later blessed Stefan Frelichowski joined the Polish Scouting Association in 2. The Pomeranian Scout Team. Black Hang in Chelmza He made a scouting promise in 1927. In June 1931, he graduated and joined the Higher Seminary in Pelplina in the autumn. In the seminar he conducted lively activities in various organizations and seminar circles, but he also worked in scouting. In the summer of 1935 he organized a summer tour and the departure of a 20-person group of scouts at the Polish Boy Scouts' Jubilee in Spala. In 1937, on 14 March, he was ordained priestly, and at the same time he was associated with the Pomeranian ZHP Boy Scouts. He was the head of the Starshop Division of the banner, he was the editor of the Newsletter Zew Starshop. On the eve of the outbreak of World War II he participated in the Boy Scouts and Boy Scouts Rescue. He was arrested on 9/11 and was not released with a group of young priests, which is interpreted among others. so that in connection with his involvement in educational work, he was considered to be particularly undesirable or demanding isolation by the occupation authorities, by the Germans. He went through various concentration camps, Dachau, Sachen... Sachsenchausen, and finally... [[Sachsnchausen.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, this is where the senator's friend fixed me up. Thank you. Eventually, he went to the Stutthof concentration camp, one of the sub-camps. And there, bringing help to the sick of typhus, encouraging a group of 32 other priests who were in the camp, was infected with typhus. He died of pneumonia. The fact that he was an extraordinary figure proves that the Germans, the occupation authorities, allowed the camp authorities to put his body before cremation because he left in the opinion of holiness. And it wasn't until after the cremation. The relics of the body survived in an unusual way. I don't want to go into detail here anymore, anyway. What's the matter, High Izbo? It is important that the beatification process began in 1964, but after the establishment of the Toruń diocese in 1992 this process was more intense. The Holy Father John Paul II elevated him to the altars on 7 June 1999 during the service at the Holy Mass at the airport of Toruń. And then Saint Father John Paul II said this: "I also address the entire family of Polish Boy Scouts, with whom the new blessed was deeply connected. May he become a patron, a teacher of nobility and a advocate of peace and reconciliation for you. It is also worth noting that on 20 June 1999 the General Council of the ZHR adopted a resolution on the announcement of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Phm. Frelichowski patron of Polish Boy Scouts. On 29 July 1999, the General Authorities of the ZHR asked Bishop Leszek Sławoy Głodzi to give the case an official course in accordance with the requirements of canon law. Action has been taken. The Polish Episcopal Conference was addressed... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...whose primate, Józef Glemp, presented the case on 22 March 2002. After all, he was declared patron of Polish Boy Scouts. High Izbo, we are adopting this resolution. And it is very good that it is accompanied immediately by a rich program of official celebrations, which will accompany the announcement of the year 2018 by the Year of Polish Scouts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u10	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Dear guests! The fact that I want to express my support for this resolution is not a surprise, because I am signed under this text. However, I would still like to highlight some of the particular features of Scouting, which are worth paying attention to. But I'll start with the lyrics. The text of the resolution seems good to me primarily because it covers all scouting organisations, their diversity, which occurs both in the country and abroad. The text also highlights continuity, this 100-year continuity of scouting in various aspects and despite various difficulties. These difficult periods were actually from the very beginning, and the world war and post-war period showed this in addition. The value of the Senate adopting a resolution on Boy Scouting and announcing the year of 100 years of independence the year of Polish Boy Scouting is important, because there is now fierce competition for young people. This is competing for time, attention, hearts, minds. Scouts are in a difficult situation here, because today the culture of the image is actually dominant. And it often prevails when it comes to young people, over the culture of action. And Boy Scouting definitely has the advantage that it's about action. 100 years of activity, 100 years of direct example, a nonverbal example, which results from the fact that in the scout hierarchy young people see a little older than themselves, much older than themselves, and watch these people behave and properly fulfill a scouting promise. This is a great advantage and it is actually necessary to promote the popularization of scouting and encourage young and young people to participate actively in scouting organisations. I would say that a direct example is very important. And as far as Professor Wind is concerned, he is an example of such a faithful and persistent friend who has been spreading this idea since he was in the Senate, and before... But I've known him since he was in the Senate, which is 12 years. Throughout this period he presides over the Parliamentary Scouts Team in Poland and abroad. I think that all of us, appreciating the role, action and appreciating the role of non-verbal education, just by example, should not only support the resolution but also promote the popularization of scouting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! So it's not like men are the only ones talking about scouting... I would like to say that I was also a Girl Scout and that I do not want to believe that next year will be 100 years, as all Scouts sing: everything we give to Poland! There's only life in it, so I'm going to live! The dawns are white, let's open the gates. Order issued: Get up, into the sun go! I will only say this, paying tribute to all the creators of the Polish Boy Scouting, my friends who shaped me in scouting, all the heroic figures of the Polish Boy Scouting for these 100 years, that for me scouting is the joy of life, the love of the homeland and discipline in taking daily hard work and duties. And that is what I wish to present and to all Polish fellows. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Spider. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u14	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! We have a special year, because the year before the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. But also this year, such a special one, we are certainly thinking about the future, we are looking forward, we want to move forward, and this is just our way. But on the other hand, we can't move forward, if we don't think about it, we won't answer the question: where did we come from? And I think the beautiful motto of this year may be the words of Cyprian Kamil Norwid: but in order to measure the future path, we must remember where it came from. We need to remember clearly where it came from, so that we can walk in a clear, clear way to the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Why did Monte Cassino grow beautiful poppies? Beautiful poppies grew on Monte Cassino because instead of dew they drank Polish blood. What is the possibility that beautiful generations, beautiful generations of young people will grow up? They will grow when they feed on the whole history of Poland, these values and this identity, everything that constitutes us and what he says about us, which will allow us to raise great Poles and great, wonderful young people. And here I would also like to quote Adam Asnyk, because he gives us the answer to the question of the soil in which young generations must be shaped: The Dead Generations Perfect Sphere In the living humanity, eternal habitation, And the tomb of the prophet, the wise man, the hero The bright life becomes a cradle. So then we'll raise beautiful generations when our schools, universities, middle school, i.e. primary schools, no more middle school, because the middle school is leaving, we have put this litter consisting of Polish heroes, of Polish values, of what Poland represents. It is then that Polish generations will grow on this soil. We want to make a beautiful person who will have a beautiful shape of thinking. And here I will allow myself to quote Cyprian Kamil Norwid, since I am a little bit in such a poet's convention: For verily I will say unto thee: that the nations of fate, And the railroads of mankind, and the world, and the heavens, And the sun, and the stars of the choir, and the core of the mineral, And a ghost! ...and everything takes life from Ideal. If you have an ideal in your head, that's the shape of your action, thinking, that's the effect. How can you not look at Boy Scouts here? What a beautiful form of thinking they had, shaped by this work of centuries, the work of generations. And I think that all of us gathered here care that, if Poland is to continue, Polish youth had such a beautiful shape of thinking as Polish Boy Scouts had. And just when there will be such a beautiful shape of thinking, then Poland will last forever. And that's what we all want here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! I allow myself, in accordance with the rules, to speak for the second time, but only to finish one question, because I would like to mention one more phenomenon, not only the patronage of the Polish Scouts, Bl. Frelichowski, but also about the phenomenon of the 1st Warsaw Scout Team. Romualda Traugutta, Black One. The history of this team is an extraordinary story, which shows in the pill not only the history of Poland, but also the way of forming people and also the pluralism that was included... and this pluralism expressed itself in people who created this environment and who already in the free, independent Republic of Poland, after 1989, supported very different trends of Polish political life. Well, 1st Warsaw Scout Team. Romualda Traugutta The Black One is one of the oldest scout teams, founded in 1911. Since 1919, she has operated in the 6th Junior High School and then the General Secondary School. Tadeusz Reytana in Warsaw. It is worth mentioning that during the occupation the Black One Scout fought in the Grey League. They returned to open work in 1945. In 1957, after reactivating, 1 Warsaw Team. Romualda Traugutta... The first team was Professor of Geography Stanisław Zawadzki. I will not summarize the entire history of the Black One, but I will say that in the 1960s and in the turn of the 1960s and 1970s, such outstanding figures as: Andrzej Celiński, Michał Kulesza, Piotr Naimski, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, Marek Barański, Ludwik Dorn, Urszula Doroszewska, Wojciech Fałkowski, Dariusz Kupiecki, Anna Radziwiłł, who came with lectures, Ireneusz Gugulski, Aleksander Kamiński. And at the end of the 1960s there were instructors: Antoni Macierewicz, Marek Barański, Janusz Kijowski, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, Piotr Naimski. I think that the history of the Black One and this work show how Polish Boy Scouts have always been able to take care of what is the foundation of it in various political and political realities. It's worth it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution establishing the year 2018 as the Year of Scouts. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back from... [[It's not working.]] Mr. Senator, you have to put the card in properly. [[It's not working.]] You pushed the senator, didn't you? [[Me personally.]] Okay, okay. Thank you. Please report the results. The vote was 89... sorry, 69 senators, they were all in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 1]] Thank you very much. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing the year 2018 as the Year of Scouts. High Izbo, I declare an hour's rest... Excuse me? Message. That's an announcement first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u18	Thank you very much. I kindly inform you of the 50th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate's session in room 180A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 1:30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 07 to 13 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u20	I'm reopening the session. All senators, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that Senator Stanisław Kogut has made a statement of his consent to be held liable for the actions specified in the application of the regional prosecutor in Katowice to the Senate Marshal through the Attorney General on 19 December 2017. We proceed with the examination of 17th... [[Is it possible to speak on this matter?]] There you go... But about what? [[I'm asking if you can take the floor.]] But in what mode? [[Questions.]] This isn't a mode. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I think... I don't want to tell you the facts, but maybe we'll talk about it later, so then we'll talk about it. We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee and is included in print No. 674, and the committee's report In print No 674 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. [[About the formal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u21	Mr. Marshal, when we got acquainted, after the committee's work, with the draft resolution, we came to the conclusion that she had a serious legal defect, which I think Mr. Marshal, I'm putting this under review. It disqualifies it as possible to consider it. Namely in the article. 2 we refer to a non-existent law. There is no President's signature, as far as I know, under the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, and so we invoke the law for which we could not even enter the number of the Journal of Acts or the position, because it does not exist. This is an unprecedented situation. I think we should just wait for the president to decide what to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u22	Senator, this is a typical legislative procedure. Let me remind you that this bill will enter into force only after a certain vacathio legis, this law you are talking about will enter into force in the meantime... I propose that the Senator rapporteur present the report to the committee, and then you, as a senator, will be able to ask the senator a question. [[And if you veto it, what are we gonna do?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate from print No. 674...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u24	Mr. Marshal, but I'm filing a motion to take this off the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u25	Are you filing a formal application, Senator? Yes? [[Yes.]] [[Me too.]] And you're the marshal joining him, aren't you? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is there a voice of opposition? Is there a voice of opposition from Senator Mammothov?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u26	Yes, I object to this motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u27	Good. Then we proceed with the vote on the senator's motion... [[Mr. Marshal, may I step away from the podium?]] Yes, you're welcome. We proceed with the vote on... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u28	Mr. Marshal, I'm continuing my formal motion. I would ask the legislator, our legislator, to speak on this issue, whether we can really vote or whether this vote is formal. [[The Marshal will speak.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There is a report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u29	Mr. Senator, this case was discussed at the committee meeting. I don't know if you've been to this committee meeting. This matter has already been discussed at this meeting. There's been a formal motion made by Senator Augustine, supported by your marshal... You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, I'd like a 10-minute break. There's a vote and... [[We're in the middle of a vote.]] We're not in the middle of a vote because there's no vote. You have to let the senators, both clubs, come to the vote. I'll take a ten-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u31	Good. Dismissed until 1:45 p.m. [[Voices from the room: Thank you.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 35 to 13 minutes 43]] At the request of the Platform Club, I'm extending the recess until 1:55 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 43 to 13 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. We are now voting on a formal motion from Senator Augustin. Who's in favour of Senator Augustin's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. It voted 60 senators, 18 in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Senator Augustine's motion was rejected. I ask Senator Elephant to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am returning to the report of the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The committees at their joint meeting on 13 December 2017 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution. I remind the High House that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are dictated by the provisions of the Act of 24 November 2017 amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. It is necessary to regulate, inter alia. in the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the issues relating to the deletion of the provisions concerning the National Assembly from our Rules of Procedure. Both the proceedings and the rules of procedure will be laid down in separate Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, we introduce a category of senators' behaviours that violate the importance of the Senate into our regulations under this law. During the committee's deliberations, the senators proposed amendments which protect the senator in a clear way from reducing the monthly salary by more than half in the event of a repeated reduction in remuneration for subsequent behaviour, i.e. infringement. The senators also introduced the possibility of appealing not only to the Senate Bureau but also to the opinion of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs in our Rules of Procedure. As I said earlier, the committee requests the adoption of the attached single draft resolution. At the same time, I inform you that such a method of proceding and recording of the article. 2 providing that the resolution enters into force on the date of the entry into force of the Law of 24 November, does not raise any legislative objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u34	Mr. Senator, I, of course, still have serious doubts as to whether we can rely on a non-existent law in the Rules of Procedure, actually on a bill that has not yet been completed, maybe I can say so. I would like to ask if, during the sitting, you tried to make it easier for the marshal and the committee to clarify what we in the Senate would be hiding under the notion of a violation of the Senate's seriousness. The bill doesn't define it, but there's nothing against it for us to define it. That's good, I'm very happy that there's an opportunity to appeal that there will be an opinion. It's certainly a good move, worth noting, but I think it's not enough, because such an indeterminate wording often prevents the committee from referring to what it does. Because one says it violates, and the other says it doesn't. It's so judgmental that we don't know what the committee and the marshal will be able to resist.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u35	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There were also such voices during the committee meeting, but, as the senator himself said, it is difficult to define a catalogue of these behaviours which, in a manner that does not raise any objections, can be qualified for such behaviour or not. He always mentioned this during the discussion on the bill by Marshal Borusewicz We leave this to the marshal's competence and consideration. I will go ahead and inform the High House that, in the discussion, I will make amendments that will correspond to Senator Borowski's proposals, which will allow the Marshal in charge to apply this principle of 3 steps, i.e. to recall... to inform the senator of his behaviour. It will not be a one-off decision to impose such a penalty rather than another. So that I will make such an amendment during the discussion. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u37	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u38	Dear Senator rapporteur, this most important provision on punishing senators in violation of their behaviour in the Senate's courtroom... I want a definition. I want you to... I don't mean serious, just answer me: is this about us in the Senate sitting room, right? 'Cause it sounds a lot wider. There are breaks, and in their time there are situations... Well, if there's a conflict situation, there's usually a break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u39	Please, Mr. Senator. [[Is this about sitting time? Is that what I'm saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u40	I think that's the case. As your intuition suggests to the marshal, The Senate meetings, because according to my practice, with my experience and experience of the Marshal, probably much more, such issues of violation of seriousness... the execution of the senator's mandate or the violation of the Senate's seriousness in other situations also go to the competent authorities, whether to the bureau or to the rule board, and are subject to a separate review there. Here it is certainly about situations that may take place during the Senate's deliberations, and when the marshal in charge will have to take such action rather than other actions. [[I'm the one who thinks that's what needs to be said. I mean, I'm not gonna do it because I'm gonna apply for rejection, but I think it would have to be specified.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u41	You're asking Senator Gawel a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u42	Mr. Senator, in connection with Senator Augustine's question, I would kindly ask you to clarify the concept of healthy reason. It's not in the draft resolution, it's just we were just talking here... There's been a debate recently about the importance of the Senate. [[Yes.]] We can review Parliament's TVP materials from the last six months and talk about what is serious and what is not serious, what demeans the dignity of the Senator, which does not defy her. [[That's a good idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u43	Is the senator going to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u44	It is reasonable for me not to try to determine what in practice the Senate's deliberations mean to determine healthy reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u45	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u46	Mr. Senator, has the committee considered... Maybe it's the other way around. Since there will be no more detailed document than the Rules of Procedure, because the rules are the most detailed, in other words, there will be no rules to define the concept of "violation of the seriousness of the Senate," we will leave here If we don't define it. It's a pretty large margin of discretion. Has the committee considered any other course of action? Could she identify what events, what situations, what behaviors? This would make the quality of the internal law that we are at the moment higher and that the margin of discretion would be less.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u47	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u48	Senator President, these issues have been raised, but this has not ended with a catalogue of behavior. I would like to stress that there are other terms in our rules, which are not clarified either. There is already a provision: senators who prevent the work of the Senate or its organs by gross violation of the relevant regulations. There's no separate behavior directory here that prevents the Senate from working. There is also no indication of gross violation. It's always... all of us, choosing marshals, agree that their wisdom and sense will allow them to react properly and use the records of our regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u49	The question is Senator Augustine. [[I'm sorry. I withdraw the question.]] You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. [[I withdraw the question.]] You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have a question. Were the regulations in force so far in the Law of 23 November 1990 insufficient? Was there a discussion on this during the committee's work? Has there been such brutalization of life in the Senate that such regulations need to be introduced and amended? What is the basis for tightening the law and introducing this provision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u52	Senator, during the committee, the senators did not refer to the previous regulation, but the issues you mentioned were raised by them. There were doubts of the senators as to the circumstances which forced such a change of laws. Indeed, another category of behavior has arrived here, which should be seen in some way by the Marshal, or behavior that violates the seriousness of the Senate. Now it's gonna be my commentary. I haven't noticed myself so far. It's a pleasure and at the same time it's a source of satisfaction. In order for the Senate to provide for the application of these provisions. Of course, I feel that this is more about the behaviour that takes place at the Sejm meetings. It's all coming from me, too. I don't know if that's a valid conclusion. It was necessary to harmonise the Rules of Procedure relating to the deliberations of the National Assembly, so that they would be examined in accordance with the specific Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not, as has been the case so far, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. With regard to changes to our rules of procedure, we expect that there will be no longer a record of the deliberations of the National Assembly. To sum up, Mr. Senator, I'm going to say that I'm not familiar with the senators' behavior so far. At the committee meeting, such examples were not provided. It is not in such a way that we have to safeguard the seriousness of the Senate, but life is often beyond our expectations, and we should respond in advance to certain facts. I stress that our records correspond with the proposals of many senators who wanted to stress in some way the rank of the higher House and that there are no situations in our House that would require such penalties.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u53	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Before I ask you a quick question about common sense, because someone here asked... This title must be used very carefully, because Thomas Paine's pamphlet of 1776 entitled "The Common Sense" initiated the American Revolution. He wrote in this pamphlet that it was not common sense for a small island to rule a great continent. And that's how the American Revolution began. With the definition of different concepts, including seriousness, one must also be extremely careful, because, as Tadeusz Boy-Żelenski explains... Allow me to quote briefly. Sense is the best divided thing in the world, for everyone thinks that it is so well stocked, that even those who in everything else It's hardest to please, not to want more than they have. Thus, the discrepancy of our thoughts does not come from this, that some might be wiser than others, but merely because we conduct our thoughts in various ways and do not consider the same things. So the concept of seriousness, in other words, can be interpreted differently, and that's why we're wondering if this is necessary. I understand that such things were not considered at the committee meeting. [[May I now, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u55	Your hunch doesn't confuse the senator. We didn't talk about these things. But I really like the fact that we as senators can also refer to the pearls of literature. This may be the basis for creating such an informal behavioral directory. Besides, with a good attitude towards senators' behaviour, I find that even senators who have no knowledge of such examples in history can behave in a worthy manner and respect the seriousness of the higher House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u56	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this opinion, which you have been kind to express. I'm fully identifying with her. It's good for the senators, but I think it should also be good for us as parliamentarians. In my previous term, I had the pleasure of working in the Seym. In my view, these regulations, which have taken place in the Act of 23 November 1990 which I have already cited, were sufficient. I think that Polish Members are also equipped with the reason Boy-Żeleński writes about, and I hope that they are capable of autoreflexia. So, in my opinion... I have a question. I don't know if the committee has talked about this and if you share my view Isn't that a bad signal to the public that there are bad practices in Parliament, in the Sejm, as the provisions of the law are tightening up in this respect. Don't you think that's a bad signal for the public?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u58	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u59	That's my opinion. Of course, this can be seen as twofold: as a signal that something bad is happening in the Polish Parliament, but also as a kind of yoke that parliamentarians impose on themselves in order to protect themselves from undesirable behaviours. I see here a very important role of our House. It is known that words teach, and examples appeal. I think that the best example of what the work of Polish parliamentarians should look like will be the work of senators, and this will be due to the fact that the Marshal will not have to use such records and none of our behaviour will be punished on the basis of the rules on preventing the work of the Senate from working by grossly violating the rules or violating the seriousness of the Senate. This will be our best response to these regulations: to show in practice how the senators behave and the way the Senate and its organs operate. Members, I hope, will benefit from this and such practices will also be introduced there.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u60	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u61	It may look so innocent, but the state... I don't know if this was a requirement of the bill you're referring to, but you're significantly extending some of the regulations, some of the rigor. Because it sounds so innocent that instead of the Senate, we write the Senate and its organs. But it's probably nothing but all the committees. So until now, we have protected plenary sessions against various violations of the rules of procedure, and now this seems to be the innocent change being extended to all Senate bodies. What was the reason? Because, as far as I know, that's not part of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u62	Please. [[But maybe I'm wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u63	I'm in a hurry to reassure the senator. It's in the article. 22, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 22, which we are changing, was earlier, I quote: the Senate, the National Assembly and their bodies. That's what we've had written down in the rules so far. And now that the National Assembly will be under separate regulations, we leave the record of the Senate and its organs. So we just crossed out the definition of the National Assembly. It's the same thing in point 2. There was: the Senate, the National Assembly or its organs, and we have now left the Senate or its organs. And that's the spirit of the amendment. We only delete the National Assembly. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u64	Are there any more questions from the senators? If there isn't, I'm opening a discussion. [[I'm checking in.]] You will be the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate and the Sejm are two separate Chambers and it is wrong when one law on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator concerns these two Chambers. We should ensure that we show this separation and separation of our House, the distinctiveness of customs and the distinctiveness of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Rules of the Senate differ significantly. Whoever was an MP knows that. And Members, as they come here, become senators, mostly follow the rules of the Parliament and wonder that something cannot be or something is otherwise formulated. Well, in our interest, in the interests of the Senate, it is in the interests of all senators to maintain... and to ensure that we are treated as a separate House. It's okay that the Sejm has much more competence. That doesn't mean we should function in the shadow of the Sejm. Therefore, when we tried to amend the Act on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, I requested that this change of the rule, sharpening the penalty in a very inaccurate way as regards the subject matter, that is, what is to be punished... I mean, I've made a request not to introduce it into the Rules of Procedure. But we have a situation here that yesterday or the day before yesterday we passed a bill, and today we have a change in the rules. So there was a quick change in the rules. This is not a good situation, because, as I am saying and as you pointed out by the Senator, the rapporteur, who reported very objectively, there were no cases in the Senate that would cause the need to tighten the repression. 'Cause that's what this is all about. And that's the first major case. The second point is the question of definition, a very vague definition. And this is just the one rule that raises my objection, because the rest is a repetition, order... And I'm not talking about the National Assembly, because yes, it was possible to introduce it to the National Assembly. But not about the Senate, because there's no need. This provision speaks of violating the Senate's seriousness of its conduct in the courtroom. But no one is able to define what the senate's seriousness means, which is what should be in the definition. And yet here there is a severe punishment for violating this seriousness of the Senate. I have confidence in the sanity of all the Senate marshals, as well as all the Vice-Marshals, but in a situation where we want to apply quite severe punishment, there should be a strict definition, because here the Senate's seriousness will depend... and whoever violated the Senate's seriousness will depend on the individual assessment of each marshal, the marshal conducting the deliberations. I would also like to remind you that in ancient Rome, which conquered neighboring states and nations, there was also... Ancient Rome contained agreements, agreements and peace agreements guaranteeing independence, sovereignty - No, it was written differently. At the end of such an agreement, there was a provision that the other party had to respect the seriousness of Rome. And this provision could have been applied and applied freely, i.e. When you had to make a deal, peace, take the wealth of your neighbors or take their gods into captivity. And this recipe, as I say, was the key to pursuing its imperialist policy. I don't suspect anybody here of imperialism, absolutely not, but I'm telling you what such a recipe, very vague, was used for. That's why I'm asking you to reject this resolution. We do not need to apply the same regulations as the Sejm, because we are a separate Chamber and there is no real need. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u66	Senator Elephant will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In public space, senators can do a lot, but they also require a lot of them. I would not be afraid of the issues that govern the amended provisions of our Rules of Procedure, but, both in the spirit of those voices which sounded at the joint committee meeting, when we discussed these changes and in the spirit of those voices which sounded during the discussion of the bill today, I would like to ask for changes in the Rules of Procedure. I am making amendments to this law, which will further safeguard the functioning of the Higher Chamber against undesirable phenomena. That is, they will give the Marshal a tool to ensure that his reaction to the possible behaviour of the senators can be gratified and that the senator in dialogue with the Marshal may also be aware that his behaviour may be assessed in the light of the new provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to make amends in the light of certain observations made by Senator Borowski during the joint deliberations of the committees. I think that both these amendments and those that speak of the lack of the possibility of a very severe punishment of the senator for the subsequent conduct that could be subject to our rules of procedure in a given month, i.e. that the allowance will not be less than half the salary in a given month, as well as the fact that in any such situation the senator will still be able to take advantage of the opinion of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs... I think that such records distinguish us from what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. When making amendments, I ask your marshal to oblige the committees to prepare a report yet at this Senate meeting so that the third reading can take place during this sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u68	Thank you. Senator Augustine will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It is interesting to see this haste in adopting amendments to the regulations under the dictation not yet functioning in the legal system of the law. We're referring to her. The Legal Office assures us that she is. We consulted on it. I asked the question: what is it like, can we apply it? No, because it's not signed by the president. It is, but it's like she's not here. This may be in line with the principles of legislative technique, but it does not seem entirely logical. And it consumes laws whose purpose should be the opposition of every parliamentarian. Ladies and gentlemen, under this law and the amended rules in the sitting room, we will have less rights than outside the sitting room. Outside the meeting room, we will be protected by immunity and, except for road matters, we will not be able to have a mandate, and here in the courtroom and yes, yes, we will. After all, it is the Chamber of Parliament which is to guarantee the freedom of expression of all parliamentarians, especially of course the opposition, who are often appalled by the actions of the authorities, which are, of course, natural, for other reasons and going in a different direction than the opposition would have wished. We have witnessed very harsh statements, behaviours which Mr. Marshal spoke about, it is not a secret, for example, at the Convention meeting at the previous meeting, an attempt to draw the public's attention to a matter, to a subject. An example is, for example, this senator's mask, who wanted to appeal to the Greek issue, because there, for the expression of despair, this type of mask was assumed. But someone, freely interpreting the rules, and there were such reactions in the courtroom, could say that it violates the importance of the Senate, right? Well, you can say that it did not violate this seriousness in ancient times, but today in the Polish Senate it does. Well, I think that these laws are controversial because of the immunity we have, but they have another aspect which I think was intended, namely that it is now said to be so-called. freezing effect. My career is now a saying, and I'm using it here. The point is to prevent the temperature of parliamentary speeches from falling, so that there is a fear that you can be punished financially, you can get a ticket from the marshal. This freezing effect is dangerous, which means that the opposition is trying to impose some restrictions. I don't want to use too strong words here, because I also need to appreciate what the rule committee has done, setting a ceiling, bringing the issue of warnings in the amendment that you made to Senator Elephant. That's something to appreciate. The same applies to the opinion of the Rules of Procedure, although unfortunately non-binding. I believe that we should not accept this presentation, because it accords with the essence of the parliamentary debate, which, after all, Dear State, is not just a discussion about legislation, because opposition in a democratic country can lose all voting on legislation, that is arithmetic, and that is another election. Why? Not only because these laws were wrong, but also because they were able and able to convince the public. Well, today, speaking in the Senate, what we will be doing in a moment, probably with a high temperature, about the electoral rights of the citizens of the Republic, we will speak not so much to ourselves as to convince ourselves to change the rules, although it is important, first of all, to the public, trying as convincingly as possible, often expressive state from our point of view, we, from our point of view, will convince ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, when you used the tools contained in the Rules of Procedure, very consistently forcing us to sit for hours because it continued to ask questions in the previous term and in the earlier period too. The temptation was also born. Ba, even the draft was submitted to the rule committee on which I sat at the time to do as in the Sejm, i.e. to limit the right to ask questions to a number or to ask questions, as in the Sejm, etc. And then the majority thought that, first, the Senate was the Senate, that there was a tradition of debate here and that we should stick to it, and secondly, But we took into account the fact that we couldn't... In particular, Marshal Borusewicz persuaded me to do so, and I confess with remorse, too. Also me, tired of these questions and this seat, had to be persuaded and convinced effectively: let us not do this. Let us not do this by guaranteeing the opposition's right to express its views, to some kind of obstruction, which is also an attempt to draw the attention of the audience watching the debate on some issue, a matter. Therefore, in the interests of the quality of the debate in the Senate, in order to ensure that we have no less rights in the sitting room than on the outside, in order, above all, to have immunity, I propose that we do not accept these changes in the Rules of Procedure, and certainly not in such a form. Although, once again, I see, of course, the effort of the Rules of Procedure Committee not to apply excessive rigors here, especially I see it in this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u70	You have a voice, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was actually speaking at the last minute, because I had some doubts when I listened to the last few comments. Therefore, I do not have a long speech, I have one rather, I think, an important question which I am sending to the committee and to the Senator rapporteur, Senator Elephant, who has tabled a specific amendment. That's my doubt. It's pretty important, I think. It's just that... The question I should have asked before is: can the content of the speech from the speaker or during the question phase affect the importance of the Senate? In my opinion, that would be against immunity. I'm talking about a standard speech, no mask, no undressing, no tumbling, no specific gestures, it's about the content of the speech. Can the content contained in a calm, normal statement given during the questions or speeches affect the seriousness of the Senate? I believe that from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure It may not, regardless of what words are used or who is affected by the statement. Because if he did, immunity would be compromised. I think so. And I am appealing here to the committee, and in particular to the rapporteur, who, as one of the members of the committee, is present in the Chamber, so that the committee may consider this and possibly, if he considers this doubt to be essential, that Senator Elephant wishes to modify his amendment. Because it seems to me that if the use of certain words or certain contents were to be considered a violation of the importance of the Senate, it would be a direct intrusion into the scope of immunity, because we have the right to say exactly what we want to say here. Of course, the statement is in some way legally limited, but so far only on time. And in this respect, the Senate was a very liberal chamber, because, first, it was 10 plus 5 minutes, second, the marshal generally allowed him to finish his speeches even beyond this time limit. But it was only a time limit, not the use of words or content contained in the statements. And all I'm thinking about is a calm and normal speech, not any demonstrations from this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u72	Thank you. You have the floor again, Senator... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After all, not only words and behavior, but also gestures, can be drawn to this definition of violation of the importance of the Senate. You can also raise a reaction, another reaction, in which words will not be used. If anybody... Crying, huh? The senator shouldn't cry. Whether laughter in the courtroom or even laughter, laughter that can go crazy. That kind of behavior can also be an insult to the Senate. I'm talking about it again to show you how hard it's gonna be to define this concept. And we're basically proposing... Senator Elephant, who proposes, but also with reservations, of course... I thank the senator for this very balanced speech and one in which we can see reflection on what this might mean in the future. But also the High Chamber, which will vote, or the senators... Maybe some of them will know what the definition is. I admit I filed a motion for rejection because I don't know what that definition should look like, so we know what kind of behavior is being punished. Which is why I'm asking you to pass the vote, accept my motion for the sake of the Senate and all the senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u74	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Słoń and Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Senator Słoń has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. I'm declaring adjournment... But before that, I'd like to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u75	Thank you very much. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the proposals submitted during the second reading of the draft resolution amending the Senate Rules of Procedure will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u76	Dismissed until 4:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 45 to 16 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u77	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies. The text of the act is contained in print No. 696, and the report of the committee In print No 696 A. Senators, please take your seats. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Pęka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission, together with minority proposals, on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2017 amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. The purpose of the bill... Maybe I'll start by saying a few words about the purpose and subject matter of the bill. The Act amends 6 laws. Amendments to the Act of 8 March 1990 on the Municipal Government, in the Act of 5 June 1998 on the Regional Government, in the Act of 5 June 1998 on the Regional Government and in the Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions concern: civil budget, obligation to broadcast, record and publish recordings of sessions and sejmists, the obligation to publish a registered list of votes of councillors, the appointment of a committee of complaints and petitions in the bodies constituting local government units, the obligation to put on the agenda a draft resolution submitted by the chairman of the councillor's club, the powers of review of councillors in the field similar to the powers of parliamentarians, the determination of the number of councillors necessary for the establishment of a council club, the annual debate on the state of self-government combined with the granting of trust in the vote to the executive body, the initiative for the resolution of residents, the delegation of the functions of the chairman of the audit committee to the representative of the opposition club. The amendments to the Act of 5 January 2011 - the electoral code and, consequently, in the Act of 15 March 2002 on the system of the capital city of Warsaw - are also multifaceted. I will mention only a few of them, namely the removal of the possibility of two-day elections; the liberalisation of the rules for voting important; the introduction of two types of regional electoral committees; the amendment of the rules for storing and making available archival documents from elections; the limitation of passive electoral rights in elections to voivodeships and to the councils of powiats and sejmies; the transfer of powers to create electoral circuits and districts from councils to electoral commissioners; the introduction of a social observer; the abolition of the penalisation of electoral aggression, including the collection of signatures, without the consent of the electoral representative of the electoral committee; the change of the composition of the PKW from judges pointed out by the Supreme Court, the NSA and the Constitutional Tribunal to 7 persons designated by the parliamentary clubs and one judge from the NSA and one judge from the Constitutional Tribunal; the amendment of the rules on the use of electronic counting apparatus; the increase of the number of electoral commissioners to 100 and the abolition of the rule that the electoral commissioner is a judge; the introduction of the electoral officer appointed by the Head of the CBW in each municipality and the institution of electoral officials. Election officials will be able to run for election, although in a district other than the one in which they carry out their duties. As far as the joint committee meeting is concerned, we hosted this meeting, among others.: Deputy Director of the Department of Public Administration of the MSWiA, Chief Specialist at the Department of Public Administration of the MSWiA, representatives of the Polish Union of the Blind, representatives of the Election Control Movement, Chief Director of the State Archives, representatives of the Polish Districts Association, president of the Foundation of the Family does not break, representatives of the Polish Cities Association, representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, representative of the Ombudsman and many other invited guests. A representative of the applicants, Łukasz Schreiber, was also present at the entire committee meeting, who provided both comprehensive explanations on the reasons for the bill and its procedure in the Sejm, as well as comprehensive answers to the questions of the current senators. This was appreciated by the opposition senators. Indeed, this situation in the Senate does not often occur in the case of parliamentary projects, which is why we have appreciated the presence of a representative of the Lower House. At first, the Member discussed this law, but I will no longer repeat it. Then the discussion began and there were many, many rounds of questions. As far as such most frequently moving threads are concerned, it was raised, for example, by Marshal Borusewicz, the question of adopting this new model of the State Election Commission, the transition from the judicial model to the parliamentary and judicial model. Of course, the Member defended this model and pointed out that it was a common model in the countries of the European Union. He gave some numbers here, stats. He said that the judge model is more of a minority, that, in principle, we are most often dealing with a mixed, parliamentary and judicial model, or with a government model, where the government controls the electoral process. This is the case, for example. Germany or France. There have been questions about whether the law is being processed late, whether we are actually able to effectively and properly conduct the next municipal elections based on the new rules. The answer was that for now we are in constitutional terms, in statutory terms, and that everything is likely to be done. The subject, which particularly warmed up the emotions of both the senators and the guests in the room, was the issue of eliminating correspondence voting. It was particularly opposed by those who represented the environment of disabled, independent people. They stressed the great advantages of this solution, which facilitates the exercise of electoral rights. There were also critical voices on this solution. Such comments were made both by Mr Schreiber and by the Senators of Law and Justice. Numerous facts have been cited regarding the fact that... There are even constitutional allegations in relation to correspondence voting, and there are doubts that there is no breach of the principle of direct election. In addition, there are numerous examples of the fact that, on a European scale too, this way of voting is subject to numerous distortions and favours the counterfeiting of elections. The Austrian example is the most eloquent here. However, I must admit that this case has also been raised among our senators and that it has been strongly urged to reconsider. It was strongly advocated to introduce correspondence voting as an absolute exception for people with disabilities, provided that the whole philosophy, the whole institution of correspondence voting, is particularly important in parliamentary elections. The statistics show that local elections made very little use of this right. It is clear, however, that this issue has also appeared in public space and has been very strongly emphasized in the media. Therefore, all the time This is an object of reflection of the Senators of Law and Justice. There have also been allegations that the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration receives such a great deal of competence when it comes to the appointment of electoral commissioners. He had to defend the argument that at this point the Commissioners were recommended by the Minister of Justice. There's some sort of resort shift here, but philosophy, the model is similar. At the committee's meeting, it was strongly argued that the elections in 2014 were one of the reasons for the bill's process and the implementation of such profound changes in the electoral system. They're a kazus here, which shows the flaws in the current electoral system. The scale of irregularities in these elections, both on the side of the State Election Commission and on the side of... in terms of a huge number of, even unprecedented numbers of void voices, gives a lot to think about and justifies profound changes in this area. Furthermore, the applicant has repeatedly stressed that this law is mainly aimed at achieving some transparency, transparency of the electoral process. This is the highest value in the election process, so that everything is fair, transparent, so that the sovereign's will is expressed in the way it actually is. The Senate legislature, of course, also spoke at the committee meeting. Well, he had a large set of legislative comments. There was also one constitutional comment, which is a certain novel in this discussion, because such an allegation did not fall at the stage of the procession of the law in the Sejm. Namely, it has been suggested that the Act deprives the power to create electoral districts in municipal elections to municipalities, powiats and sejmies of voivodships and grants them to the electoral commissioners appointed by the PKW at the request of the Minister responsible for administration. Your patron's argument was that such a solution has an important impact on the active and passive right to vote for the authorities of local self-government units, which is a constitutional right that should be characterised by universality and equality. And further: the way the electoral districts are shaped affects e.g. whether a group of voters living in a given area of local government units will be included in a circle that favours or hinders the conversion of the group's votes into the fruitage of the election victory, i.e. the acquisition of representation. Since the legislator considers the law to be a universal source of law, e.g. the designation of areas of activity of tax offices, which does not affect in any way the nature, amount or manner of implementation of tax law, is all the more the source of the law generally applicable is the designation of boundaries of electoral districts. In the Polish Constitution, you continued to adopt a closed catalogue of entities entitled to issue rules that are universally applicable. The Constitution shall also indicate the entities empowered to issue them. According to Art. 94 Constitutional acts of local law can only be issued by local authorities and local government authorities, and the electoral commissioner is neither. There were also legislative comments on which... They have been partially, so to speak, consummated by the amendments tabled by the Senator of Law and Justice. These amendments were accepted. The committee meeting ended with a vote on a number of proposals, amendments. There were also minority proposals. The application for rejection was rejected and a proposal for adoption of the Law was subsequently accepted with seven amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has a formal motion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u80	Mr. Marshal, I have waited very quietly until the end of the report. What I'm trying to say is that this is an extremely important bill, and there's no government representative in the courtroom. I think... I am applying for a break and to bring here or to ask here a representative of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, because he is responsible for electoral matters. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Especially these things...]] [[I understand your conclusion, Mr. Marshal, but you know very well that this is a parliamentary project, so there is no obligation to be present...]] Mr. Marshal, we could agree to this if it were a minor law, and this is a very important law. I have questions for the Minister of the Interior, who is competent about this law, has competence within this electoral order and will have the next one. It's totally inappropriate that the minister isn't here. So I repeat: I am applying for a recess until a representative of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration arrives.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u81	This is a formal conclusion, I understand. Yes? [[Yes, a formal conclusion.]] Is there an objection? You're welcome, Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u82	I object. [[Change this album...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u83	I hereby declare 10 minutes of recess until 5 p.m., after which we shall vote on this motion. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 51 to 17 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We will begin by voting on the formal proposal submitted by Mr Borusewicz. Who's in favor of an adjournment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 64 senators voted, 18 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] I believe your Marshal's motion has been rejected. I would therefore ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u84	Mr. Chairman... Mr. Marshal! President of the State Election Commission. High Izbo! I am very pleased that so many of you have come to hear me speak. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] I consider it a success. Ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on a very important system bill. The motion that was filed for the presence of the Minister in discussing such an important bill was perfectly justified, but since the Minister isn't here, we still have to proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, local elections are the most difficult to organise, with the largest number of candidates and electoral committees. In practice, it will be a quadruple election. It will be elections to communal councils, to district councils, to voivodship sejmists, direct elections to wojts, mayors, city presidents, and in Warsaw additionally elections to district councils. So it's very difficult, complicated, to count too. These elections are held in one-mandate electoral districts, but they will also be proportional elections. We already have a lot of experience in organising this type of election. Thousands were involved. Now we're introducing a completely new organisational model, 10 months before the election. It can cause the chaos of competence, decision-making, executive because of the fact that this time is really not much. So far there has been this pattern and it was clear how these elections are going. It has also helped many years of experience. Now there's going to be a change. Some of them are set aside in time, among others. These, when it comes to the electoral districts, will only be part of it. But it's just set aside in time and it'll come back. There will be a new head of the National Election Office, appointed for a 7-year term, elected by the State Election Commission, but appointed by the competent Minister of Home Affairs, which is currently the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There will be new commissioners. Not 400, but 100 people, but no longer judges who will be appointed by the Minister for Home Affairs. They will be people without any practice. Until now, judges who have been appointed have had many years of practice. Now they're gonna start over, with as complicated as I said, elections. There will be two electoral committees, one to hold elections, the other to count votes. At the committee meeting, we also talked about what perturbation might be like. These committees will generally be filled by party committees, which is also a novelty. There will also be new electoral officials. This is an army of several thousand... five or six thousand people. They were also people who were delegated from offices who had experience. Now it's going to be new people. I'm just telling you why there's a motion to reject the bill so that you're aware of the dangers we're facing. The amendments proposed in the Act lead to a politicisation of elections. We have no doubt about that. The fundamental changes in the Act also concern the elimination of correspondence votes, i.e. the universality of elections. Here were the amendments and there were amendments. We're going to put them together because it's a scandal to prevent all citizens from participating in the election. That is why we have tabled such amendments and we will continue to do so. JOW... There was a change here, too, during the committee's work. First they were supposed to be gone, now there will be JOWs in municipalities of up to 20,000 inhabitants. Two terms of office, mayors, presidents... Twice after five years. The definition of the voice of the important, this mark of the... Of course, we were making amendments. We have further amendments to eliminate this, to return this record of at least two lines, etc., to go back to what was normal for many years. Everyone knows how to vote in an election. Kids know what a two-slice intersection is, a cross, a x-slice. That's what everyone knows. And now we're making a new law to complicate it. There's also the note on the card. Now you will be able to even where there is a grate, write, add. Of course, it'll create... You said there were a lot of those votes that didn't matter. Now you can expect that, depending on the committee that will count and will interpret And the interpretation will be very difficult. There may be even more of these votes. Financing the election campaign... We will also make amendments in this respect. The secret of the election is next. The urns are clear, we're gonna put the cards in the envelopes, and there's gonna be a member of the election committee who's gonna be watching and reminding us to put it together so that it doesn't go down. Especially at the beginning, as the urn will be empty, otherwise you will notice how who voted. And the important thing is, who's gonna make the final decision on the validity of the election? The Supreme Court Chamber. You want to organize and oversee elections, because that's what this all comes down to. Why are you changing the electoral order? Our conviction is clear: because you will not win these local elections, that is how you feel, which is why, despite the short deadline, you want to change this order. You know that. If you do not have that purpose, if I am wrong, then accept our amendment, another which is already tabled, which we will reiterate, about the date of entry into force of the law. Let it enter into force on 1 January 2019 and there will be no problem since you have such intentions that it does not matter in these elections. [[Then she'll be good...]] Has this procedure been meticulous? Messenger mode, consultation... What the work was like, the session in the Sejm, how many amendments were there? That's what we've all seen. It was hard to figure it all out. That's why we're warning you about threats, about destabilising the electoral process. You do not trust local governments, so you take away all their competences and here you can clearly see this trend. We will certainly make a lot of amendments during the debate. Surely the correspondence vote must be restored, there will be an amendment to the deletion of this article. As for the definition of the "x' mark, there will be further amendments. There will be amendments to the article. 499, the date of entry into force of the law, etc., etc. I could have mentioned how many of these amendments I had tabled. You can still make meaningful changes. Everyone, when we propose amendments, we can reflect on this bill, we can improve it so that it is acceptable to everyone. The fact that this bill is bad today is beyond doubt. If she comes into force, all of you... I think that this will be an important, very important vote, one of the most important government law, concerning local governments throughout Poland, at all levels. 10 months is so little time for election, just look at the calendar and count. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no change in this important system bill to... you can change it to at least That was the rule. A year earlier, but it's best it's a long time for everyone to get ready. And the changes you're making... You're politicizing this bill. These changes may lead to many complications, that long after the election we will not know the election results. I won't mention the programs, the other things, but we may not know the election results for long. We set an example of what it was like for the last election. Ladies and gentlemen, you can definitely count on this record to be broken. And then the lessons were learned from it. [[The last ones were...]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are many dangers, which is why it is important to vote. Each one of us who raises our hand for or against will certainly be settled by local government. Self-governments in Poland play a very important, very important role. Many of us come from local governments. We were on city councils, voivodships, and we know these issues. And we know that this bill, so prepared, creates a great deal of danger. If we meet after the election, you'll be able to discuss it a little longer. As we have said many times... I'm not gonna talk about other laws, like... The Constitutional Tribunal, what did you say, and what did it turn out to be? And many, many other laws. They could be exchanged for a long time. E.g. All police, etc. As it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, raise your hand. And there's discipline. It is a simple matter, but the consequences of this bill, how it will be, will be borne by all of us. And we need to take care of local government in Poland, he is a very important local government. There is a state administration and a local government administration. Local governments are currently carrying out very important tasks concerning the spending of EU funds. In this context, let us consider what might happen after these elections. Therefore, I ask once again: please, there is a request from a minority to reject the bill... And if you consider that this law can be improved, we are also looking forward to your conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u85	Good morning... Oh... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Good morning.]] I mean, thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again we grab future and present voters by the throat, imposing on them in extreme conditions: nighttime And at an accelerated rate, the new law, electoral ordination, let's add that it also increases certain powers of residents of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. My speech in no way confirms this document. And since I perform as always, in a factual way, it is only because it is intended to alleviate the taste of this Christmas dish Anna Domini 2017, and above all to prevent choking on bones, which this law can cause before the next Christmas Eve, i.e. in 2018. My minority proposal includes three proposals. The first, farthest, is the one mentioned by Senator Florek, rapporteur for the minority proposal. In fact, the authors of this proposal can be found outside of me, above all, the position of the State Election Commission, notabene experienced, enlightened in conducting elections, and not only elections, because there were many. This is the committee that we imagined. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's wrong, it's converted into hours, months, the number of urns, the number of zlotys, and, above all, it translates into the seriousness of the electoral act. The second, one can say, is the author of this first minority proposal, which is included as the last one, of course the Ombudsman, who is after all the recipient or recipient of many complaints, as well as the participating... or the patron in the dissemination of the electoral act. I do not hide that, as an experienced person, at least in terms of the length of my term of office, I have used his knowledge of fulfilling the constitutional principle of universality of an electoral act when we entered into the ordination of all state authorities the participation of persons with disabilities permanently or periodically abroad And that's not a small number. And even those who so far, i.e. up to 2014, could not participate in the elections at all because of fate, or disability in the field of vision. For these reasons, the first minority request, i.e. The first amendment of the minority proposal aims to ensure that this law, together with the refinements that I will continue to talk about, and maybe even more will tell my colleagues to move to practice, to apply only from 1 January 2019. Here, of course, there is also this good idea, e.g. digitisation of the voting process. It's also discipline to increase activity. There's no need to explain. The second proposal aims to restore the institution of correspondence voting. Although in local governments it does not include our citizens, compatriots staying abroad, but only residents of Poland, but also foreigners who must also be aware of this election act, even doubled. We believe that this institution passed the exam because 40,000 people took it. And I'm saying that this number is going to increase. 40,000 voters have benefited and this number will increase. In this case, we think, like when there is no better solution, let us not violate what is already the goodness of this law and what has been presented so nicely, not only by me, because my speech is very modest, but above all by the recipients themselves, or persons with disabilities. I would like to remind you that this record of the correspondence vote includes also pensioners and pensioners, as well as people in the country, especially, I think of farmers. It also has a disability certificate confirmed by the right to a care allowance. Of course, it was promised in this respect, especially my colleague from my constituency, who promised to lean on it, but unfortunately you come with the same solution and I did not find this element in the report by Mr Pęk, which was presented at the committee meeting on the possibility of restoring this solution. Perhaps this amendment will make you think about it. Of course, it is unacceptable for Mr. Marshal Karczewski to think that this entire ordination should be limited only to persons with disabilities. Once that would be difficult, and two, there are many people who do not have a disability certificate. Now I am talking about the meaning of largo, which is also about voting in the parliamentary elections, because there are independent people, obsessively ill, and there was no need to issue documents to them, because they gave them... I'm sure we can't do that. Unfortunately, during the committee meeting, there was not a very bad view that was presented by the citizens of election control... [[Voice from the Chamber: Election Control Movement.]] Yeah, from the Election Control Movement. Thank you, Mr President. He argued that it went beyond the constitutional framework to allow correspondence voting, in other words, creating some bystander, even if I would not repeat those words. The vote distorting the validity of the act and the results of the vote. He was very wrong because the first rule of every vote in every democratic country is universality. Anything that limits this universality is abuse. Furthermore, direct participation, direct voting is not a physical act, it is not explained as a physical presence at the urn. Direct voting is different than e.g. in the United States in the presidential election, where the electoral vote is made. These are indirect choices, not direct choices. We have direct elections and this principle is implemented. So, the country that you have in your ranks, the formations... And that's what it turned out to be. the basis for such distortion of this ordination. This is profoundly false and is simply a confirmation that these people do not know the constitution. Finally, the third thing. You're paying attention, which is why I'm not gonna take a break in my speech, and I'm not gonna wear... not a mask now, but a kindergarten suit. Well, kindergarteners don't know what the letter "x" is. It's true, they only learn about it in schools. The letter "x', which has so far been linked to the vote, is a fact commonly known in the country. It's still limited by a rectangle or a square in some way... I'm not sure, but a square is a variant of a rectangle. The letter "x" is clearly defined as cutting two lines. The state introduces the concept of at least two lines. I'm not going to look at the reasons for this change, but crossing at least two lines means it could be 100 lines, and it could be other signs. I know these signs. I've seen them myself. My wife actually told me. That there were signs at the PiS and PO grille consisting of two cross lines in the shape of the letter "v'. The Commission was having trouble deciding whether these are cross-linking lines or whether this is a sign of victory. I will not talk about more unpleasant signs, which are also composed of intersecting lines, many times and which are banned in Poland. Such a sign with one candidate It also appeared, and it's being prosecuted under constitutional law. So I urge you to reinstate this old formula for the definition of the sign "x" as a universally recognizable mark. And by the way, my intention is not just to make a case like this. As you know, electoral processes are increasingly subject to digital techniques, voting techniques, and the electoral committees are merely controlling this. I will not describe my adventures, my observations from Kyrgyzstan, which I also shared with Members of the PiS. It is this technique that requires this sign to be legible. Not only for us, but also for computers. Well, when it comes to a sign that consists of 100 lines, intersecting one another, I don't know if the computers of the newest generation actually get that kind of voice. Besides, the State Election Commission And not only did she indicate that many problems arise from the fact that the cross was wrongly placed. As I say, the axis of our appeal, which coincides with the opinion of organisations of people with disabilities and other ordinary Poles, is, however, the restoration of this correspondence vote. I would like you to show that the deletion of this provision is not merely due to the willingness to control elections. I'd like you to give up this concern. It is true that, during the two and a half years of government, the state has not restored the rule of law to people with disabilities. You have failed to comply with two judgments of the Constitutional Court, and now you are afraid that these people are going to put up the wrong one, and that's why you're deleting these people. So you're also deleting the constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u87	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u88	High Senate! Mr. Marshal! I would first like to share a brief reflection on yesterday's committee meeting. I think it was quite long and turbulent. I am sad to say that you have rejected the amendments you are proposing today. I think it brings a lot of chaos to our work. It is still a law made in a huge hurry, there are a lot of amendments, a lot of comments, and yet the state has not made any decisions at the committee meeting. On the contrary, you have entered into an unnecessary dispute with us, and then you have tabled such amendments. I think it's pretty embarrassing, really. I would like to talk about the amendments that were also proposed by our legislators. These are Amendments 8, 9, 10, 11. Amendment 8 eliminates parts of the provisions which repeat the standards contained in other provisions. Amendment 9 eliminates the provision ordering the designation of real estate. Amendment 10 defines the concept of private property and Amendment 11 deletes amendments that do not change the wording of the rules. There's just some mistakes out there that should be eliminated. Someone said yesterday that the Senate was just here to notice things the Sejm didn't notice. And in a situation where we eliminate amendments that correct what the Sejm has not noticed, and we do not take into account proposals from our legislators, which are not political, it is really very difficult to work. This House will come out of underdeveloped, bad laws. It will avenge us and affect our opinion of the Senate. I would like to draw your attention to 3 amendments, Nos 4, 13 and 15, and to Amendment 6. Amendments 4, 13 and 15 restore the power of the municipalities' councils to designate electoral districts, and Amendment 6 amends the law on the modification of electoral districts due to the change of the municipality's border. And now I am. Restoring the municipality's competence to appoint electoral districts... I would like to remind you that in the discussion this was very often made as the main argument against the law. It's very easy to manipulate circles. The districts have always been determined by the municipalities' councils and there is no reason to change that. There is another amendment I would like to draw your attention to. This is Amendment 7, which ensures that the deadline for the receipt of information on the possibility of a proxy vote to voters and the deadline for the notification of the proxy's intention to vote. What does that mean? This means that if we introduce the possibility of voting correspondence for people with disabilities, we will also have to introduce this amendment. It will enable a disabled person to learn in good time that he or she will be able to do so at all. What's in the bill now makes it completely impossible. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u90	Mr. Marshal, I'm going to start by saying that I really regret that you left Marshal Bielan. He greeted us so nicely that I wanted to say good morning to him. Unfortunately, he's not here right now, but I hope he can hear us. High Izbo, at first there was an argument here, which, by the right side of our room, was treated skeptically. We were talking about 2019, about the proposal to introduce it after 2018, which is in 2019. I would like to say that none of us want this because we believe that the bill is generally wrong. We treated this as a test of your intentions. If someone wants to make a good change... She'll be fine regardless of the date she'll be introduced. That's one thing. Secondly, during our debate at the committee meeting, there were arguments undermining the credibility of the State Election Commission due to the confusion in 2014. Some, only some, the Senators of Law and Justice gently suggested that there were frauds. Most, including the rapporteur, said that the presentation in the form of a booklet was misleading. And most of us agreed. It's just that in your project, what supposedly led to mistakes of this magnitude, you don't change at all. So the most important element you've ever had doubts about is that you're leaving. If you have any objections to the 2014 State Election Commission, why aren't you saying there were some wimps in 2015? It was all right then, wasn't it? This is, you will admit, a slightly dwarf and selective reasoning. I have had the opportunity in the last 2 years to be an observer during 6 different elections taking place in different parts of Europe. Well, I would like to say to you that compared to what is happening and what I have seen in other countries, really the way in which elections are conducted and this most important element, that is, the State Election Commission... Well, in relation to what I've been observing, this is an exemplary way of responding to irregularities. Moreover, this independence of the electoral commission has really been a guarantee for many years that some of the things that are there on the agenda have not happened with us. After the last elections in 2015, I had the opportunity to meet with representatives of international organisations who came here and who summarized all of these recent elections, and also the countries that won. And there were absolutely no serious charges, and there was even a laurel. So what's wrong with all of a sudden we have to change things? Well, the answer, of course, is that you have to break that independence. There was a mention of this mark Well, I also took part in an election that can be held in a second... sorry for the thought shortcut that will soon be able to be electronically verified, to transmit this data directly. The idea that this is the intersection of any number of lines already from this point of view is absurd. Because it's probably impossible to read later. Something that's settled... 'Cause if we say I can do So either two lines, or three lines, or five lines... That's for sure, in my opinion, it's impossible to digitize. Having said all this, I would now like to say two words to you about the amendment I tabled. As in the debate on the Supreme Court, when I tried to convince you that if the Minister of Justice from your camp comes and casts a technical remark that what you invented the President could not be done without additional finances and without additional vacathio legis... He said that in order to ensure that complaints could be submitted and analysed, you provided the possibility to lodge complaints. By the Ministry of Justice, analyzing the tens of thousands they predict, complaints, you need time, you need money and you need technical possibilities. As part of a philosophy of not making amendments, you have moved on to this voice of your minister, whom you listen to in all other matters like the Oracles, to the agenda. And you've pinned something on him. It was in writing that he was against it because he thought it would bring a mess. In the case of this law, you have exactly the same. The Director of State Archives came and said that all the documents he has in his resources, that the most important documents concerning the history of Poland constitute a total of And he told you that one municipal election would force you to keep these ballots for two years, or maybe even five years, to increase 250 km of current documentation one time. And he told you that he was begging. That's your clerk. Don't do that. What is more, we need to think about why we should keep these documents at all, since the Supreme Court has a very short deadline for examining all electoral protests and deciding whether elections are important or not. That's the term. I don't remember. Maybe I'm wrong. I think it's 30 days. So what do you want to do with those 250-mile cards? This is un-- There's no reason to hold them at all, because the decision whether or not they are important falls within 30 days. As in 2014 there were protests and problems, whether we are dealing with some kind of election forgery or not... [[The president signed both laws.]] Please? [[The president signed the KRS bill and...]] Oh, thank you, Senator. I noticed... But it's right now. Yes? [[At the moment, he announced it.]] Oh, thank you very much. [[Then we'll be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now, back to my thoughts, if you don't mind... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What I'm trying to say is that if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a second, because it got a little loud... [[Excuse us.]] [[Please, Mr. Senator.]] I'm getting back to my thought. If it really is that after 30 days nothing can be done about this information, then it would be absolutely nonsense to keep these documents. Moreover, as far as this new chamber of the Supreme Court is concerned, this country, your political arrangement, will indicate a whole new chamber. Then tell me. And I hope someone can explain it to me. Why can't it be over these, well, two years... If there's any reason I can't see him... But if you see any reason why you don't want to keep it in the municipalities for two years? I'm not talking about five, because that's completely absurd. It was said that NGOs, after this information, that something might have been wrong in 2014, tried to review the ballots. They drew their own information about the 1000 electoral districts. After 10 days, they grabbed their heads and said, "No, no, that's maybe 100, because it's impossible to see at all." And they said, what can you read from this card? It's that somebody's put up a "x" or a "yy," and that's all. That she's either legally valid or irrelevant. Why am I talking about this for so long? Well, there are a few others in this bill... Besides, you caught them yourself... She was on her knee as usual. You had political permission to fix it, more, you had time. Well, that's because there was a timeline for this bill to proceed. And thank you for Mr. Senator Bang. ♪ I'm bent on my forehead ♪ Because he had permission to do so, he took over a lot of our office's amendments, which... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and added it himself, yes, sir... [[And he's gonna add it.]] And he'll add, as he assures me here... I am very happy that you also acknowledge that our Legislative Office is right and that at least in terms of this law That doesn't change the fact that she's unfortunately a very political law... I am happy that, at least in this respect, we are returning to some standards that have been in force here for many years, that if specialists tell us that something is completely corrupt, we can fix it. But unfortunately, in the so-called it does not change the fact that there is a politicisation of elections in Poland and in my opinion a regression of what was. And one last thing. I'm sorry to go back to this particular example. There's an argument here about a designated man who's gonna stand by the urn and look at his hands, who's throwing what. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that it doesn't matter. And by chance, because I went there to watch it... That's exactly... This is what the electoral commission in Belarus is proud of. Well, I swear to you. There's no intentional malice in what I'm saying. It just so happens that they in Belarus think exactly so. That it is their great victory that there is a man by the urn. I hope this gets everyone thinking. Thank you. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u91	I give the floor to Senator Flork for a brief follow-up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u92	Maybe not as much as... Among the 15 minority proposals are also It is so as to close the case of all these requests, 2 applications which have been submitted by me. This is also a minority request. I will only say briefly what these proposals relate to. Well, the first of these proposals, marked "No. 1," concerns only so briefly. The civil budget. The point is not to impose on local governments... They're mentioned in the mouth. 7th in the bill... I'll just quote point 1: the formal requirements to be met by the projects notified. And, among other things, the required number of signatures of the population supporting the project, which shall not exceed 0,1% residents, etc. I think that local governments, when it comes to civic budgets, are really doing great in Poland without a law in which we would impose certain conditions on them. And that's why the first amendment. Second amendment - I think it's definitely more important. This is Amendment 12, ladies and gentlemen. The thing is, in the article... It's about art. 5. Point 138 is deleted there. The point is not to delete the article. 499 to keep him on the bill. I'll quote this article. 499: who, in connection with the elections without the written consent of the electoral representative, carries out an electoral agitation, shall be fined or arrested. Please read this recipe carefully. If he's deleted, what are we in danger of? Someone I don't know, e.g. some private radios • can carry out an agitation without the consent of our proxy, cause costs, money... And it won't be settled. This recipe just needs to be kept, you need to get back to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u93	Thank you. In a similar manner, with a brief addition to the report, Senator Rulewski came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It will not be a reminder of the effort that parliamentarians have put in. Everyone, I think, because we didn't count them. The fact that Poland ratified the Convention on Persons with Disabilities in 2012. This Convention obliges us to give citizens with disabilities all those rights which have persons, say, effective, in particular or, above all, rights in respect of respect of human rights and citizens. And undoubtedly the choices are such a right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u95	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein is the first on the list. Please specify which rapporteur you are asking the question to. [[To us.]] [[Senator Cracks.]] Please. Mr. Senator, please... [[Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask you here a few questions about the law. The first point is...]] [[Mr. Marshal, will you give me a minute? I just need to get my notes...]] Bring it in, and while you're at it... [[I'll wait a second.]] ...senator will wait a while. [[What, are they dead? The documents are missing?]] [[That's a good sign.]] [[Voice from the room: Did you make a copy?]] [[That's a good sign. Don't look for them.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u96	All right, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'll try to speak fairly briefly. The first issue concerns people with disabilities and older people or those who had the right to vote in correspondence. It seemed like our big success. Although not so many people took part in the elections using this method, it gave the opportunity to vote for those who had limited opportunities to participate in the elections. It gave them such a feeling that they could feel like full and responsible citizens. I'd like to ask now... Because there were minority amendments, and you voted on it at the committee meeting. There have been amendments to the minority, they are reported. Mr Senator said in his report that it still requires some thought. I understand that this thought has occurred. Which of these minority amendments do you think would meet these requirements when it comes to restoring the possibility of correspondence voting? Which would be the best solution? The point is, we don't have to make any more adjustments so they can get together. They didn't fight. I am referring to these amendments, which, as you said, would be acceptable and at the same time restore this condition as it was before. That's one thing. The second question concerns a matter relating to two committees. One is the committee that makes the election. The second committee is the one who determines the results, counts and simply checks the votes cast. Did you analyze the costs of introducing these two committees at the committee meeting? Of course, it's cost-effective on a national scale. So what would be the estimated cost of the election if the old voting system, i.e. with one committee, and what would be the result of the second committee? And the third question. And it would be over for a while, or maybe I wouldn't have to ask any more questions at all. Have you analysed such a question in the committees, or is it written in the bill that it is assumed that the management of the review committee in the council of the municipality is mandatoryly a member of the opposition in this municipality? Has this case been analyzed? Maybe that's the kind of record that came up. It seems that this would be a pretty good solution, because it would give such a feeling that the opposition also has an important influence on what is happening in the commune council. Or is there a record that makes it possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u97	Mr. Senator, I'm asking for brief answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u98	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. They'll be brief. As for the last two questions, which are the third and the second, I do not recall that these issues are the subject of a committee, but maybe one of the minority rapporteurs will improve me. [[It's a cost issue...]] Yes, I'm talking about the costs of two committees and the audit committee. [[Well, then I'm gonna ask the minority rapporteurs to address it.]] And when it comes to correspondence voting, it is not a secret, because it has already occurred somewhere in public space, that we are considering introducing an amendment that will allow correspondence voting for disabled people. We believe that in this respect Indeed, such an exception is worth doing. Nevertheless, we continue to uphold all these arguments regarding the risks associated with the correspondence vote. That's all I have to say for now. You still need to arm yourselves in a moment of patience. I think that at the stage of the debate these amendments are likely to be tabled by me. [[Yeah, except it'd be worth knowing sooner, so...]] [[Who?]] [[Probably me.]] [[...just don't shred your tongue and ask over and over again. If we knew this idea right now, we'd know what the starting point is.]] Senator, don't bother me. You need to be patient in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u99	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the commissioners. Namely, this law appoints Commissioners and these Commissioners have 7 days before the election day to inform the residents of the elections taking place. But as we read from the Legal Office, we can see that so far this competence has belonged to the uncle, the mayor and the president and was a local law. The commissioners don't have that right. Was there a discussion about this? And what is your opinion: what is the purpose of calling Commissioners? Why don't you want it to be the mayor or the president who's still organizing the elections on the territory of a local government unit? After all, it is an entity elected in free democratic elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u101	Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u102	Mr. Senator, I think, in general... Well, you have to say, just from the beginning. We have said that it is important in the local elections that certain solutions which affect the transparency of these elections, their transparency and honesty are not concentrated in the hands of the people who directly participate in these elections. It's so dual. It's better not to leave it in the same hands. It is similar, however, to the composition of the State Election Commission. We were also accused here of eliminating the Supreme Court from this formation. Well, the Supreme Court is in charge of assessing the validity of elections, so it is also better that these two roles do not accumulate here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u103	Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to talk about the commissioners. I'm gonna have a few questions, too. Can you explain why the Commissioners are to appoint a Minister for Home Affairs and Administration? I'm asking for at least a few motivations for such a recording. Please also explain to me what the point is that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration also appoints the head of the National Election Office. That's my first question. And the second question I'd like to ask. Can you answer if it's okay that the electoral commissioners can be appointed with legal education, not judges, e.g. Notaries, solicitors, bailiffs, prosecutors or other persons who have studied law or have received a higher education in the field of law, without knowledge of electoral law? And this question is linked to the question of the number of Commissioners. The number they finally decided on: 400, 300, 100, 200, etc.? And the third question... Because I have 18 questions, but of course I'm gonna ask them in different turns. The third question is related to the correspondence vote. Why are you so afraid to vote in correspondence and automatically cut off this opportunity for people with different degrees of disability who could feel fully citizens of our country and participate in the vote via the Internet? And it must be borne in mind that we have an era in which we are already introducing computer science lessons in primary schools and teaching young people how to use the Internet and use it. And in conclusion, I'd like to say that I'd like to I don't know, Mr. Marshal, as the procedure provides. In order for my first question, namely to try to justify why the Commissioners should appoint the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the representative of the drafters of this law may also answer, because he is present in the Chamber. Because I'm curious what motivated the creation of such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u105	Please respond, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna answer all these questions, i.e. I will try to answer because they were indeed the subject of the committee's deliberations. I would very much ask you to limit yourselves to such questions as are related to my role as rapporteur. It is difficult for me to answer all these questions relating to, for example, the motivations of Members of the applicant and of the Lower House. I am the senator and I have the role of presenting the report of the committee meeting. But it was indeed at the committee meeting that was discussed. Why the M.E.W.A.? Because we have adopted this governmental and parliamentary model, which is also disseminated in Europe. Most European countries have adopted this model. And we felt that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, as far as his competence is concerned, was more naturally related to the electoral process than the Minister of Justice. That's why it's a resort shift. It's a matter of commissioners. We have also added an amendment that clarified this provision that the Commissioner may be a legal person. We added in the Senate that it was supposed to be an extra person giving the right guarantee... I'm talking out of my mind right now because I just can't find it in my notes, so maybe it's not exactly what you're saying, but you can reach for the print. So we want to further strengthen it, because it's not enough that it's going to be a master of the law, but it's going to be the man giving the warranty. Therefore, it seems to me that this is about qualifications of both moral and substantive nature. It's kind of an open, wide clause, but I think it's just to make it a wide choice. I am not convinced that such persons are to be people such as notaries, lawyers who, even I would say, are obliged to be apolitic in particular by their corporate regulations. Therefore, I cannot imagine that the notary is involved in this role. But that's my private opinion. And then there was a question about the correspondence election. I'd like to discredit this problem a little bit. Senator Rulewski was giving some very high numbers. He was talking about 40,000... [[Not even 50...]] [[57...]] Exactly. I have the election data for the Sejm in 2015. At that time, less than 10,000 electoral packages were sent in the country in a correspondence vote. And in the 2015 presidential election, 12,000... less than 13,000. [[No...]] It is known that this correspondence vote is more important then, because it concerns people living outside our country's borders. So really in the local elections this procedure has the smallest quality weight in terms of its use in elections, but of course it's important because it's a group... It's not about her number. It's about her... [[...quality.]] Yeah, about her quality. This is about helping these people in the election. This is not open to discussion. And, like I said, We'll do it by cutting off the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u107	The question is, Senator Klich... He's not here. The next one on the list is Senator Libicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u108	Thank you very much. The question for the senator is breaking. Mr. Senator, the title of this bill says that its authors are about increasing the influence of citizens on the electoral process. I would therefore like to ask: if, at the same time, the possibility of voting in correspondence is limited in this law, this is to increase or reduce the influence of citizens on the electoral process? I would like to ask if this was mentioned at the committee meeting. And if it wasn't, could you give your opinion on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u110	Mr Senator, of course, yes, if you read this law literally, it is difficult to ask for a different proposal, but for this participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities there are many more different aspects than just how many people take part in the vote. This is where I would refer more to this quality look. Because then citizens take more part in the whole electoral process, when this process is more transparent, transparent, when they also have such a real belief that their voice is taken seriously, that it will not be distorted, that the outcome of the election will not be heard, even by a huge number of votes that are not valid, as in previous elections. This is where you said earlier that many of you have a lot of local government experience, that you know what it's like. Me, for example. I don't have local government experience, but I really wanted to have it, and in 2014 I started in the Małopolska Voivodeship Sejmik. In my constituency, in the district where I thought I had the biggest support, there were the most votes that weren't important. It's a record scale, unheard of. Therefore, we are really looking at this share of voters to a much wider extent. And I think the name of this bill is actually correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u111	The question is, Senator Komarnicki... [[Well, maybe...]] Don't comment, just sign up. Now Mr. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, rapporteur, I was running for sejm, too. There were some voices that weren't important, but they chose me and I was vice-president of the Sejm... [[Probably more than a little.]] I had 12,000 votes. And one such remark, please note: no one has been punished for falsifying Poland's results. Please don't operate on that statement. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm sorry. My question, Senator rapporteur... In line with the methodology you have adopted with regard to the criteria for electoral commissioners, it is certainly important that they cannot be judges. But why do you, Senator, in elections that take place six months after the local elections, in elections to the European Parliament allow commissioners to be judges? I don't get it. Next question. Sorry, I have to repeat what Senator Libicki said because the local government asked me to. In the name of this law are words to increase the participation of citizens in the selection process. And what's in the bill itself? The core. This law deepens discrimination, this law eliminates the correspondence vote used by older, disabled and independent people. Where do these people's discrimination come from? With such sensitivity. And my last question. As part of the democratic package, you enter the records that the council clubs in the voivodship sejmies must make statements whether they support the boards or do not support them. According to the interpretation of the representatives of the Sejm Analysis Office, it may appear that someone will have a person on the voivodship board and at the same time make a statement that they do not support this board, and thus will have a chairman of the audit committee. Or it may be that the chairman of the review committee will not be elected. Mr. Senator, what then?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u113	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u114	Mr Senator, these issues have not been discussed by the committee, but I am unfortunately not able to answer these questions from my head. I think there is still a chance to ask the applicant. Well, unfortunately, I'm sorry to say it's kind of out of my league. [[Thank you for your honest answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u115	Thank you. The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u116	Senator, before I ask a question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yes, please.]] Senator, before I ask a question, I will make such a brief comment, because also in your speech, and yesterday there was an argument to ensure that the deletion of the correspondence vote is such a bow towards directness. Well, directness isn't about that, it's not about how you vote, it's about not voting for an elector who's a middleman. This is the quality of directness. It's about explaining this mistake, my commentary on the question of why you're erasing the correspondence vote. Because Senator Libicki just answered, and I have to ask a question, while I know that the senator will stand here for a moment, I will ask if the senator would like some water. [[No, no. Thank you for the moment. Thank you so much for your concern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u117	Please. [[I don't know if...]] Good. You're asking Senator Duda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, was this mentioned at the committee's meeting and arguments were raised for the fact that the provisions of this law are breaking the article. 62 Constitutions and Art. 39 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Do you agree as a lawyer? That's my first question. Secondly, I would like to ask you, because you have repeated this repeatedly, whether you are supporting, or whether you are supporting the reasons why the correspondence vote raised here on several occasions is dangerous for the electoral process. What are the reasons? Please mention at least one that threatens readability, directness, freedom of elections. I'm asking for a correspondence vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u119	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u120	Mr. Senator, you were at a committee meeting, so you know that a representative of the election control community was talking about the procedures involved in this area of serious abuse. I've already quoted here, and I've presented a report... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. But what are the reasons? Come on, tell me what these are the reasons why you're pulling back...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] [[You asked the question, and now you're repeating it. The answer will be.]] [[I'm not saying again, I just want to hear...]] [[There will be an answer.]] Mr. Senator, why don't you just follow up on the election analysis in Austria, and that's pretty detailed. Let me remind you that it was the correspondence vote, the pathologies in this area that led to the repetition of the elections in Austria. So something's going on. As far as the details are concerned, read them. [[But, Mr. Marshal, I am so sorry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u121	Do you have another question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u122	I'd like to clarify. You make me read something, Senator rapporteur, but this is your role to answer the question of what are the reasons why we are withdrawing from the correspondence vote. Where were any irregularities found during the last elections in Poland? Did they even find out? [[Is there anything you'd like to add?]] I will ask you the same question, because I do not know such examples. [[I've already answered that question, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u123	Thank you. The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u124	Mr. Senator, in the first round, let's move a little away from the election, because the law also changes the laws on local governments. Please state whether it has been clarified what this means that the municipality council cannot substantially amend the draft resolution of the civil budget proposed by the inhabitants. As you know, a resolution of the council in this regard may be challenged. What does it mean in an important way? And who's important? That's the first question. The second question concerns the amendment of the sixth, Article. 20. Namely, it seems that since the deliberations of the commune are transmitted and recorded, this is a step forward in the use of the Public Information Bulletin. I would like to ask: what about those communal councils where there are local televisions that broadcast large-scale deliberations? I believe that the introduction of this provision will actually bring transmissions to the Internet and that this will mean a regression for older people. [[I'm asking you to answer...]] Sorry, one more thing. May I? [[Please.]] I'd like to hear what it's gonna look like... The point is that the councilman will have the right to look into all documents of municipal companies and commercial companies. What will ensure that trade secrets cannot be disclosed? In the mouth. Article 2 as amended. 24 you say this: with respect to the law on protected secrecy. Well, my self-government experience is that, in fact, as a councilman, I could not get information about these issues. I was told, orally, that this is covered by trade secrets. What's gonna change that record?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u125	3 questions, 3 answers. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u126	Mr. Senator, I'm not answering these questions. I just don't feel up to it. I stress once again: I am the rapporteur of the committee and I have presented the committee's meeting in quite detail. I can possibly make even more specific reference to who was speaking, what he was asking, what was the answer to. But I'm not going to discuss every rule of law step by step with the senator because I have the same knowledge and competence as any other senator. [[Excuse me. Can you get an answer in writing to questions you don't answer? Well, you can't...]] No. I'm not obliged to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u127	Mr. Senator, there's no such formula. Don't speak. [[Then who can we get an answer from, Mr. Marshal?]] I didn't give you the floor! [[I'm sorry.]] Wait for your round. You have a voice, Senator Slugocki. You can ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, perhaps at the committee meeting... I asked you about your intentions, why the governor, the mayor, the president is being denied the right to hold elections. You were talking about duality, indiscretion, and the fact that he's the one who's interested in organizing the election. However, please note that the same situation is at national level. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has, I would say, certain political colors. Why is it that when elections are organised by the governor, the mayor, the president, there is duality and the process is non-transparency, and when the competences of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration are given, this is clear, clear, in line with the intention of the legislator, right and fair? Come on, Senator, for God's sake... Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u130	Mr. Senator, it's obvious to me: on the level... The Minister doesn't run for mayor and uncle. And here, in the election for these specific positions, these people are directly involved. So here on this one level, all the roles are cumulative, everything is in one hand, and that's it. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u131	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u132	Well, yes, Mr. Senator, but please note that in some cases, these mayors, mayors and presidents, who would run for the third time, will not be able to run, but you are also denying them the right to hold elections. Why? I mean, it's a certain inconsistency.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u134	Mr. Senator, as I knew, I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u135	Thank you. You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The idea of this law is to increase transparency, transparency, fairness in the conduct of elections. But I have some doubts here. Therefore, I will ask the question, resulting also from some experience and certain processes that have already taken place. In my last election, I had two draws in one-mandat districts, 15 counties. By the way, four years ago, there was a tie in the 1st district, too. And tell me whether, in connection with the current proposal to vote on the ballot in one way rather than another, So now it will be possible to mark, delete, and then vote differently than by inserting 2 intersecting lines. Will this honesty or the ability to achieve this objective, the fair outcome or the inability to fake elections, be greater or less?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u137	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u138	Mr. Senator, I think they're gonna be bigger. Moreover, this methodology for voting is in line with a certain trend also expressed in various European documents, such as the Code of Good Practice, if I am not mistaken. There is also the OSCE's electoral instruction, where there is an indication that, in the area of voting as important, we should have a liberal, pro-Citizen approach, that is to say, we must give up some strict formalism about these marks, and act rather in common sense, in such a way as to defend the validity of the vote. So I think there's a much bigger chance at this point... It's especially about cases like this, when someone, for example. He's gonna go ahead and mark out the wrong candidate he wanted to mark, and then he's making some blurry adjustments. It'll be easier to save a voice like that now. Up until now, it has been the case that a candidate who did not want to vote has already put up such a line has completely eliminated the whole card. So I say yes: yes, I think this is a proposal that will increase the participation of citizens, their access to elections and increase their chances of giving an important vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u139	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u140	Senator rapporteur, you are being eliminated here... that is to say, you are leaving judges as election commissioners. They're supposed to be law-educated, flawless. Can prosecutors therefore be electoral commissioners?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u141	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u142	Senator, this was not the subject of the committee. Well, I'd have to... I'd have to think about it. It seems to me that the D.A.'s attorney-in-law's laws are more likely to limit the possibility for prosecutors to participate... But... [[You're not sure.]] I'm not sure. Only if I do.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u143	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u144	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the minority proposal. [[There were three of them.]] To the main man, not to the reporter... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Thank you for your appreciation.]] [[You're the lead.]] The first is an auxiliary question, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. Because here there was such a suggestion that the Councils of communes, powiats and seymists of voivodships would not be broadcasted, according to new regulations, by local televisions. Whether there is any provision in the Act prohibiting the transmission by local televisions, or whether there is a provision which requires the placing of all proceedings in an electronic version in the BIP and allows for example. reach through any television at any time for the convenience of the users to these broadcasts and transmit them? That's the first question. The other one's more serious. Well, you represent the applicants who applied to reject the law in its entirety. [[Yes.]] I counted 14, yes, perhaps 14 provisions that increase social control and participation of citizens in the meetings of local governments, municipalities, powiats and seymists, and at least 7 provisions, not only regulations, but in general groups of rules, in terms of various types of transparency and transparency of the electoral process. If this bill were so bad that it had to be rejected in its entirety, I could understand it. But what about these ideas? Are they all so bad? Why did you file a motion to reject the law in its entirety? Because I can understand other amendments, that can be explained. [[Because there's a self-government bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u145	Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u146	As for this information in the BIP, you are right that this transmission from the sitting will be posted there and therefore everyone will be able to benefit. If he considers it appropriate at the right time to listen to it, to see it, then of course it will be possible. We're different, Mr. Senator, about that second question you asked. Because I was clearly talking about the stubbornness of elections, about how it would look at the various levels at the moment, starting with the State Election Commission. We know what the changes will be, they are postponed in time, they will not be until the next elections, but we know that there will be no more 2 representatives from each court, only 9 appointed, although also judges, but these are among others. That's it. Well, there's a matter of the head of the National Election Office. Of course, commissioners are a curian issue, because these are people who are going to be new people at the moment, and the requirements are very clear: higher education in law, so we replace judges who are independent, independent... Of course, you think that only the judges you point out are independent and independent, and those who are at the moment are certainly angry, and that is why this change must be made. It would probably be possible to go further with regard to the municipal level, local workers who will be employed in elections. So you can see that we have everything in order so that there is political influence in these elections. That's why we think it's bad. And that's where the main conclusion is. Of course, there are also smaller cases in this bill, which in some ways make it easier to... Well, I don't like one record. There's a record that as far as the municipalities are concerned, it's a possibility that before the discharge, when the discussion... I forgot right now, but I'm gonna remember. I think this is a discussion on the report. It's something new that we're having a discussion about the report. And, for example, there it is stated that in the debate on the report on the state of the commune, the councillors speak without restrictions. Knowing, for example. Mr Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk from Poznań, who is present in the Chamber and who was the councillor of the City Council of Poznań... I imagine you'll be able to make that statement for three days. So you can find such small things in the bill, but we don't think that these improvements that are based on someone there... Well, it's supposed to be transmission, but transmission isn't much of an improvement, because it's been possible to record it in some way so far. The fact that there will be a person there who will stand by the urn and make sure that we actually put these cards in, you can call it an ease, but on the other hand we will not agree that these are some great facilitations. So that I'm too positive, Mr. Senator, I can't see. Why don't you tell me a good thing about which I'm gonna say you're right. They are not important enough to affect us in such a way that we withdraw from this conclusion when the most important thing for us is time. Ten months until the election, and we don't know yet... After 14 days, it seems that this law will enter into force. It needs to be published, and we still need the President's signature. And if we count all these dates now, we'll see that there's not much time. And let's remember that you need to e.g. select 100 new Commissioners who have never been in this role and have no experience of any. And they're gonna start creating... What will cooperation with the municipality look like? After all, there will no longer be posted office workers, but again people appointed by the Commissioner. What will this cooperation look like? Well, thank God you gave up on the fact that it was the commissioners who were going to set up the districts in the municipalities and in the counties, because that would be the end of it, and it could already be assumed in advance that this law was impossible by that date. Yeah, but you're saving this bill somehow. In fact, it was the Members, not you, who corrected it. And yet there are still a lot of threats. So that when it comes to what you said about the fact that there are certain pros, we don't hide that there are some pros in this bill, too. There is no doubt about that, but we are also talking about the main risks arising from these changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u147	Thank you, Senator. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u148	Of course, as always. Mr. Senator, there are certain advantages, and that's why you have to reject them right away? Well, maybe there's some logic in it. [[No, no...]] Now, here's the question. Is transmission from the polling station stubborn elections, and if so, how? Explain that to me. Is it that the minutes will be drawn up immediately, without agreeing with the executive committee, stubborn elections? Is it that the men of trust will be able to record the work of the committee, stubborn elections? Is counting votes at least 2/3 of the committee's stubborn elections? Will it be possible for Polish organizations that are involved in elections to present their observers, stubborn elections? Is the fact that the votes will be counted together by the whole committee, not by sub-groups, which has so far enabled scams to be made, also stubborn elections? I'm not gonna quote that anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u149	Thank you for explaining this. Of course, these are things... [[I'm asking for a brief answer, Senator.]] Please? [[I'm asking for a brief answer.]] Well, this is the case, Mr. Senator... as for the transmission, it's been similar so far, this bill doesn't change much. You may have your representatives, of course, but I am convinced that in these elections it will be different, ladies and gentlemen, than you think. It's not like if we change things, these changes are gonna be good for us. We'll see. With full mobilization, all committees will be filled, although there is also a little party cast, because five out of nine... I am convinced that those observers who are going to do this, who are going to try to guard these elections, are going to be a lot, but what you're talking about is small things. Take, for example. These two committees. Well, Mr. Senator, it's just that one committee works by 9:00 p.m., draws up a protocol, then goes home, and then it turns out that this committee that's been left is counting again the cards that were thrown into the urn. Well, he's counting all those votes again. If it turns out there's some kind of inaccuracies, because someone made a mistake about one vote, two votes, then we're gonna have to download that committee back to get it to improve protocol. A much simpler solution would be, for example. enlargement of the committee by 3 and 4 persons. It wouldn't be a problem. After all, you can always share during the day in such a way that some people are present at the meeting and some are not. And it would be much simpler. Do you think if there are two committees, they'd be better off counting? Well, the name of the other committee itself. It is a bit unfortunate, in my opinion, rather than a calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u150	You're asking Senator Libicki a question. Tell me who you're addressing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's, so maybe Senator Florek shouldn't leave the stand. I have a question for you. The provisions of this law have changed quite strongly, there have been amendments, more than 100 amendments which the authors themselves have tabled. At some point there was such a record that, after placing this mark or other sign, it would be possible, if someone was wrong, to delete it and to put that sign again. I'd like to ask if it's still in this bill, and if it is, doesn't the senator think it opens the door to very large abuses. Because it's very easy to cross off some... So far it has been so that if there were other characters, except for one of them, the voice was simply null and void. So in some way, if he was misplaced... There was a certain, let's say, failure to reflect this result. If this recipe had been maintained, it would have been very easy to simply turn this voice into a voice in the other direction, deleting it again by putting a sign somewhere lower on this card. I'd really like an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u152	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u153	Mr. Senator, this can indeed be the source of great abuse. Why? This recipe has so far been quite simple, clear: 2 bars intersecting, inserted in the appropriate grate... And there was no doubt. Members said that someone could be mistaken and crossed out in this grate... And it would be a good thing if he could change that, paint that grate and put that cross in another grate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's not mention those notes, that even on the bars there might be extras and so on. That's gonna lead to these unimportant voices being... There is also a question of interpretation by the committee, whether it is clear or not. If you want to go in this direction, it would be much easier to say that someone, someone, has made a mistake on this card, can turn to the committee. You could go in that direction, but you didn't go in it. And the committee takes note of this fact, takes the card away from him and gives him a new one if, of course, he wanted to, because he said he was wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, but we are finally responsible. These are the people who are over 18 years old and how they go to vote, they should be prepared for it. If I make a mistake, it's my fault. The percentage of people who are wrong is 0.2 from what I've heard. Or... I don't know, something behind the comma, a small number. That's the percentage of people who are wrong. It's not much, and we're trying to upgrade this cross somehow right now, we're saying that not just two lines, but more, etc. Well, art... Poles have a very large imagination. I can already imagine what these different kinds of stamps put in these bars could be. And the fact that you can write something on the grate and put a cross somewhere else, and where something's written, it'll be important, and there... And if I write something and it happens that they cut two lines in that sign, in a name or something... This could be a source of abuse. It is important to return to the rule that has so far been in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u154	In corrigendum mode, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As long as Senator Florek is at the podium and there's no false information in the country, in the city... Well, both committees do not count the votes in the urn together. The urn is sealed, and they only count cards that aren't released, the ones that aren't used. [[Yes, I agree with you here. The cards that are not issued count together, and then the committee that remains, for the second time, counts these cards that are not issued.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u156	Thank you, senators. You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question basically for both rapporteurs, the majority and the minority. Please explain to me... The whole initiative to change the electoral code came from the view of Law and Justice that local government elections were falsified, there were a lot of votes void, and this bonus in the form of the first page of the book for PSL was confounded by some. How did this happen, what is the explanation that under the same electoral code presidential elections and parliamentary elections were not falsified? Is there any explanation for this simple fact?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u159	Mr. Senator, so briefly. Well, it seems to me that from the technical point of view, the parliamentary elections and the presidential elections are much simpler to handle. However, in the local elections, this extensive book and all the difficulties for citizens in finding out where there is room for voting, putting up a sign, have caused it. That's it. [[Was that a forgery or a mistake?]] No, well, of course I'm not saying that these are forgeries, but the fact that there were so many unimportant voices in these elections, regardless of whether they were errors or forgeries, has greatly affected the perversion of the outcome of the election. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u160	Would you like the other senator to answer that question as well? [[If I may, briefly...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u161	Well, let's get this straight about faking the election. I heard on TV the statement by the President of the State Election Commission, who said that no information was received about the fraud of elections. Mr. Senator actually talked about the fact that some elections are simpler, but I would remind you that those that are ahead of us are the most complicated ones. This needs to be taken. I'll take that under [[Question...]] And one last sentence. If these elections weren't faked, then I'm asking: why did you go to Brussels and complain that they were faked elections? I don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u162	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u163	I have a question for Senator Flork, maybe right away, what may be the consequences of what you call the stubbornness of these elections? Because elections should be five adjectives, among others. should be equal elections, i.e. those which guarantee equal opportunities for both voters and start-ups. Do I understand you correctly that you, Senator, believe that equality of elections can be shaken by the stubbornness of this process of organisation and electoral control that you are talking about? Besides, I have a question for Senator Zdrojewska. Can this bill be improved at all? Because the senator was focused on the amendments. Is she to be corrected because of the fundamental reservations that Senator Florek was talking about? And I have a question for the senator. You said in the beginning that instead of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who is also from the government, would propose candidates for election commissioners. Has the committee in any way spoken about the consequences of this designation, that it is the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration who will propose Commissioners instead of judges? Or wasn't she on the case? And if she was on the case, what conclusions did she come to? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u164	Mr. Senator, please, according to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u165	Yes, I understand that I have to answer briefly. Of course, about the fact that there's a stubborn election, I don't think there's any doubt. I've already served, from the top, what the election looks like right now... There are no judges, mostly, apart from the State Election Commission, because there are only two judges, and then we choose... Therefore, there is no doubt that these elections will be stubborn. And also the appeal procedure, let us remember that there is a first State Election Commission, and then the Supreme Court, appeal, etc. And what happened, what's gonna happen, what's going on in the Supreme Court, etc., then we all know it. So there's full submission, stubbornness from the top... What will this translate into direct elections, equal, we will see, but we must be concerned that this stubbornness will have an impact, for various reasons it will have an impact. You could say here what it might be like... Well, these are fears, these are habits, for example. transparent urns, maybe somebody will see... it's all real. It should therefore be taken into account that this can actually translate to some extent into election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u166	You don't have Senator Zdrojewska to whom the question was addressed, so I'm gonna ask Senator Burst.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, well, it was a matter of ministry in committee, but more in this context, that I've actually already explained why it was the Minister of Justice before, and now it's the Ministry of Justice. So, well, on the basis of the characteristics of the appropriate resort... In this context We also talked about the fact that, as far as this model is concerned, it now appears that in 29 European countries examined on behalf of the Senate in 16 there is a parliamentary-judge model, in 10 government, and in 10 judges. So these powers of the Minister of Justice In the Act: Minister of Home Affairs and Administration It's not an unusual solution, it's common in Europe. Well, I can only joke. once again Since I have already answered this question, I should say that the opposition should be pleased that we are taking these competences from this most demonized department in the current government, the minister of Ziobra's department.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u168	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u169	Thank you kindly. I have a question for both the rapporteurs. The basic question is: have you noticed, gentlemen and committees, apart from what the opinion of the office shows, a far-reaching lack of precision in the provisions of this law? I actually went through it a little bit. I think you read it thoroughly, and at the committee meeting it was discussed. Let me give you two examples, specifically, from the text. For example, on page 58 of the text of the Act, paragraph 102, §1: Any notified list of candidates should be supported by signatures. And then there's the numbers. It should be here... It means that if there are 10 signatures missing, because they're going to be disqualified, so to speak, the list will still be valid or not? This is one example. It should be backed by signatures... This is page 58 of this Act, paragraph 102. Come on. Page 37... these are examples, I was just looking at it. On page 37, point 48 (b), there is §2a. I'll start with point 2. Both points are very questionable there, I mean their record. Here it is about the requirements concerning Commissioners, it is written that the Commissioner may be a person with a professor's academic title or a degree of doctor of habilitation of legal sciences. It would have to be analyzed, but from this record it appears that when it comes to the title of professor, it is in any discipline, and if it comes to the degree of doctor-habilitated, it is only legal science. In turn, in point 1, there is a rather complicated sentence in which the persons who may be, regardless of the requirements of paragraph 2, point 3, are mentioned as members of the electoral commission. There's... I'm not gonna read the whole thing because we can't afford a full analysis here... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a question.]] There in one sentence is used or And then it's either that or it's that. Is it the same thing or not? Does the meaning... Are these alternatives the same? In my opinion, it's used differently. I think it disqualifies this text at all. What do you think about this personally and how it was treated at the committee meeting? These comments I am referring to are not included in the opinion of the office.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u170	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u171	Thank you, Senator. Well, it's hard for me at this point to examine whether a specific provision should mean "must" or... It seems to me that in the language of legal texts, it should mean "must." And the question of whether or not And... and... and... and... In the principles of legislative technique, one is understood as a normal alternative and the other as a separate alternative, so... Well, I encourage the senator to respond in the form of an appropriate amendment. More generally, it seems to me that we are open to amendments both at the Seym stage and at the Senate stage. Almost all the comments made by the State Election Commission were taken into account in the Seym stage. So I encourage you to clarify this text. That's our role as senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u172	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question. [[It was up to two...]] There you go. I'm sorry. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u173	I'm short. Mr. Senator, of course, I've read the entire bill quite thoroughly, and indeed the places you're talking about are plenty. This bill was made in the Seym, so to speak, on my knee. There were a lot of amendments made, and it is known that if such a law introduces... It was notified, I do not know, about 150 or 200 amendments during the procedure in the Sejm. Many of them were accepted, of course, those that were reported by the Law and Justice. It is therefore difficult to control the entire bill now. I'm just going to refer to the example that you gave to the National Election Commission for its composition. Well, it's clear and obvious... It has to be read literally: she worked at a Polish higher school, at the Polish Academy of Sciences, at a research institute or other scientific institution, having the academic title of professor And here's either the or the degree of the doctor's habilitation. There's no doubt about it... [[Legal science.]] Doctor of habilized legal sciences. So, a habilitated doctor has to be a doctor of legal science, and a professor, whatever he is. Of course, it's about the professor's title. It may be in the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u174	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Wach's statement will appear to me as it were. My question will be addressed especially to Mr. Burns, because he is a lawyer. Art. Point 7 (2) states that the municipality council shall lay down by resolution the requirements to be met by the draft civil budget, in particular the formal requirements and the required number of signatures of residents supporting the project, which shall not exceed 0,1% residents of the area covered by the civil budget pool. Can't it be bigger? Why? It is usually a criterion that something cannot be any smaller than it is. But it's bigger than that, isn't it? Is that a mistake? Substantial or Purpose? Explain it to me. This is the first case, so fundamental. The second is the reflection on the famous mark 5, point 2. At least 2 intersecting lines shall be defined by the sign "x'. Wouldn't it be easier to write a crossword instead of a sign? In our society, the cross is widely known. Nobody's gonna make a mistake about the form of his writing. In the old days, when illiteracy was still quite common, signatures were made in the form of a cross. The cross would replace everything, and perhaps there wouldn't be this messed-up discussion that someone would make a mistake. I can make an amendment on such a provision. I would like to ask for an explanation of the record, but it can't be more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u177	Thank you. Mrs Senator, I regret to say that this issue has not been discussed by the committee. [[Excuse me. What do you think?]] I'd have to think about it. [[...substantively? Yes?]] I just can't answer any questions about every provision of the bill. You can ask Mr Hermelinski such a question, who is certainly a bigger expert here and knows the details. As for the second point, I encourage you to make an appropriate amendment. I've talked three times about this sign, and I'm really not gonna think of anything else here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u178	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u179	I have a question for Senator Mark Blow. Mr. Senator, you haven't been able to tell us what excuses can be given for your concerns about math in the case of correspondence votes. I'm gonna ask you something else. Can you justify limiting the two term of office to mayors, mayors and presidents? Are there any data that show that the mayor or the mayor is more likely to be abused in the third term than in his first term of office? What do you argue about limiting your term of office?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u180	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u181	Mr. Senator, that's the topic of the essay, why it's... [[Card... election card.]] It's not hard data. Right? There may be a uncle who performs the function of 4 terms and is pure as a tear, is effective, is creative. I'm not questioning that. But a certain pattern of life Not only in the exercise of authority, but in any other area It makes it possible for a certain firing mechanism to occur, to such a mechanism that the man who is chosen once again is no longer dynamic, not creative enough to create a mansion around such a glazer. A lot of us... Me, for example. In Krakow I know many examples, such as the President of the city of Krakow, which is the fourth term, and many Krakowians dream of changing. But he's a great employer, and there's a whole community behind him who's interested in re-election. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] I think I'm also saying this from my experience. The lower the level of self-government, the greater the pathologies of this multi-cadence office. I have observed many such examples in my constituency, e.g. elections to the voivodships were held without any competition. I mean, there was one candidate and there was no competitor. No one believed it was even worth running against him. Few, many did not take part in these elections out of common fear, fearing that they would be faced with the whole mechanism of organized harassment, intimidation, that the sorrows would meet their loved ones and their potential voters. But, as I say, it is more of a subject for me to say, publicist than for the report of the committee meeting in the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u182	Question... Do you want to fill in, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u183	Senator, as far as I know, it's about 40%. In the last term of office, they were mentioned, but it is not known how many of them were one term, how many two, how many three. Wasn't there such a vote that the most dangerous thing in terms of this discouragement, but also in terms of abuse, will be the last term, because she no longer cheers the uncle for the voter's voter vote? By introducing two terms, every other uncle puts in such a situation that he will be the last term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u184	Mr. Senator, I can also say that the Law and Justice have been calling for a much stronger option of two-channel, so, I think there's some concession here on our part, some way out of what you're saying about it. I can still tell you about one that is more handy objectively or a lensed argument. It was claimed, during the work of the Parliament committees, that since there is a four-year term, we will have one of the shortest periods of office of the mayor and the governor in Europe after the adoption of two terms of office. As a result, we also came out to meet and extended our term of office. At this point, it's 10 years. I think this is a really long time in politics. You can prove yourself, and live out, and realize your plans, your assumptions. I am in favour of two-cadence to a greater extent than it currently applies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u185	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u186	Mr. Senator, I have a question for Senator Flork. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator, by discussing your amendments or by justifying minority proposals, you spoke of a threat to elections. I would like to ask you about the first 70th amendment, which introduces the entire chapter 9 on electoral officials. As you see, also on the basis of your experience, the possibility of normal work of these electoral officials, since they do not have to have any experience in conducting elections in the light of the provisions of this law, and in addition they cannot come from the commune in which they will work, because art. 191b §2 provides that the electoral officer may not be a person included in the permanent electoral register, etc.? How do you think people who are not officials in a given municipality, perhaps not officials at all, who do not have any experience, because they do not have to have it, will be able to hold elections in the next municipality? I will give you an example, Mr. Senator: someone who lives in Poznań you are from Poznań In Środ, he will become an electoral officer for the city of Poznań and will be responsible for opening all the premises, for bringing everything where it is necessary, etc. Do you think that's even possible? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u187	Maybe Senator Jerzy will ask you a question. There you go, Mr. Senator. Do you also have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur? [[I have a question for Senator Mark.]] Good. That'll be a minute. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u188	Mr. Senator, when it comes to whether this is even possible, I spoke today in a speech about the dangers of this and what could happen in this situation. It is clear that if this official was an official of a given city office who was seconded to prepare the premises, to handle all matters related to the elections, etc., then it was the cooperation of the office, the employees and it could be done. I can't imagine that in this situation, after these changes... There will probably be such places and people who will manage and organize it somehow, better or worse, but they will, but it should also be expected that there will be great problems and great problems in preparing the elections themselves. Especially since the calendar will be tight, because these people will be appointed by the Commissioner, and the number of people who need to be appointed in Poland is estimated to be I don't know. Around 5,000 are sure, as no more, because we have 2,000 500 municipalities, and there are big districts, big cities, where there will be more of these people. Therefore, this is an army of people who will have to prepare these elections. That's what we're talking about. There are dangers in that title. That's why we said that if the initiators of this bill think it's not about winning the election to make a difference, especially... Well, in big cities there's a different situation, in small cities there's... If this is not the case, these changes should actually be made with some delay so that they can come into force. I don't know. For example, on 1 January 2019, it is possible to prepare well for the changes that are being made. Indeed, it may happen that the locals, that all the preparations that need to be made earlier, send notices, announce letters, etc... It will again have the uncle's task to do, after all, it is the task commissioned. These are things that can make the election very difficult. And of course that's what we're afraid of. The legislator should take this into account. I understand that the applicant doesn't necessarily, but that's what the government and we as a parliament are for when we haven't had the consultation required before, since we haven't talked about it before. If that kind of analysis wasn't there and they're not there, then we don't know how it's gonna end. Well, we're a little blind. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u189	Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright. The question for Senator Mark is breaking, isn't it? [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u190	Mr. Senator, I'd like to continue with this matter of burning out the mobs, the mayors, the presidents. Well, let's assume... it doesn't really convince me, but let's assume that you're right and that there's such a thing that after two terms, the chosen ones start to burn out. So please tell me, are these studies you've done, or the data you're saying you're talking about, only the mayors, the mayors, the presidents, the local government? Do they also concern Members and Senators? Because in my opinion, there should be some logic here, so we should introduce two-channel also in parliamentary elections. [[Mr. Senator, all of them...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u191	Wait a minute. Does Senator Jarosław Duda have a thing for you... [[I have a question for Senator Flork.]] Flork. Good. Then please, Mr. Senator, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u192	Senator, this issue has not been discussed by the committee and is not the subject of this law. But it's all ahead of you. If there is such an idea within the Civic Platform, please create a majority in the parliament which will implement such a law. [[Voice from the room: Soon.]] [[I'm still here to see the senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u193	Yes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u194	I didn't mean you, Mr. Senator, the sentence, but the sources on which you base this claim. Because I understand that you have some sources that prove that after two terms, a man is more burned. And I ask, are these sources just talking about the mayors, the mayors, or are they talking about people who start to burn out after two terms?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u195	Mr. Senator, this is a bit of an abstract discussion. Well, everyone has a look at the reality around us. You do not share our views on the matter, for example. Pathology in various areas of public life, for example in the justice system, in the Polish business, you question our laws related to the sealing of the tax system, etc., etc., etc. Therefore, we will not really find out here whether someone burns after 5 years, after 10 years or after 15 years. We have taken a measure, a pattern, and we stick to it. [[So there's no such source. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Duda is asking Senator Flork a question. Yes? [[Yes. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u197	Mr. Senator... [[But please turn on the microphone.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'm going to explore this subject that incredibly intrigues me. Because neither during the committee meeting nor today have I heard the reasons why it is forbidden to vote in correspondence. It's just some completely improbable, unconfirmed suggestion that it caused some kind of counterfeiting. Are you familiar, Mr. Senator, with such cases as would happen in this Austria discussed here? Because... unless this is about the Belgian issue, because they say they've been accused... of actually cutting the mail vote in Belgium. But I'll tell you why. It is because there is an electronic vote. There is already an electronic vote in 150 places in Belgium and it is mandatory in Brussels. So maybe that's what this is all about - reducing correspondence voting. Does the senator know anything about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u198	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u199	Well, you know, it was said that the main reason for this restriction on correspondence voting was that these elections were faked and that they were forgery. Only no one could give any evidence of it. And right now, in the era of computers and the Internet, talking about falsifying correspondence choices is just funny to me. This way of voting... I know, for example. people who live in Poland and are from the United States and who vote in this way in every election, even in the case of some local elections they are sent a letter... Because they put in the register where they're staying, they gave the address, and they vote like that. And there's no problem about that. And we're suspicious... Well, I mean, I'm not talking about us, but right now I'm talking about the legislator and those proposals that were... It's about the attitude that everything here is suspicious that something here can be forged. And the worst part is... 'Cause the pen always has two ends. That such arguments are drawn... Of course, there will always be arguments for this side and for the other side, only that often on the basis of individual arguments, on the basis of individual cases we build laws. And, of course, we can't agree on that. That's why we think that when it comes to correspondence votes... In my speech in the debate, I will talk about a few amendments that I will make, and then I will talk more about this in the correspondence vote. After all, there are older people, people who for various reasons, e.g. Healthy, they can't get to the polling place. Why do we want to... It's not a big group; it's certainly not going to affect the outcome of the election. At the committee meeting, it was said... I've heard of forty thousand such people. This is where someone said 12... [[Mrs. Marshal, can I say something about what you're saying?]] About how many people? [[Ask around. I have such knowledge that 57,000 in the second round of the presidential election...]] Well... [[57,000 in the second round of the presidential election. It's such a scale.]] Well, I guess it's real. In the first round, I think it was... Because there's a difference between how much in the first and how much in the second round, depending on... As I recall from the committee meeting As far as I recall, 46,000 people were spoken of, not fifty... Anyway, we're talking about this scale. That's about 40 and 50 thousand people. So that's really not a big number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u200	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Miss Lydia Staron. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for you... [[Which senator?]] Whatever, you could be a senator... [[It could be for me.]] Maybe I won't bother anymore... I have the following question, because I am still concerned about the issue of this sign. I think the point of the bill is her soul. In a situation where... I'm talking about the electoral code, the article. 5. After this change there will be a record that at least 2 lines are meant by the sign... A. 41 states that the addition of additional numbers of letters, names, other characters or notes, including in or outside the box, does not affect the validity of the vote given to it. I've heard here the senator's position that this is really a defence of the importance of the voice. But I'm having second thoughts. And that's why I'm asking you a question. Whether the price of this fight will be too high, whether this is how we do not pour out the baby with a bath, or whether we do not open a large enough door to abuse. It is also important whether statistics should be used when drafting this law. I spoke to the head of the PKW, who said that currently available statistics After all, we did not have such a law, which indicated that void voices were those empty cards given. Especially today... In the context of the Article. 440, even if we make a mistake and mark two votes... with the letters, we'll mark two bars, and that voice will be important. If it's worth it for these single votes, I'd like to hear the answer to something that's going to make it possible or... We don't know what it's gonna be like, but it might allow a pretty large scale... to give us opportunities for abuse. And that's why I doubt it. I would most like to hear the applicant's opinion, but here we have only rapporteurs at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u202	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u203	When it comes to falsifying elections... Ladies and gentlemen, according to the data... The most important votes were in the elections to the voivodship sejmists. Why in the elections to voivodship sejmists? In the commune, we mostly know the neighbor who's running. It's easy in the state, too. And when it comes to candidates, for example. to the Seym of Wielkopolska Voivodeship, not everyone knew these people. And so it happened that a lot of people didn't put a cross and put the cards in the urn. And it turns out that these are the votes that don't matter. We've had them, like, 21.22%. , mostly on a national scale. Yeah, but if you throw away that 70 percent, it turns out that this percentage is normal, just like everywhere else... Just a little bit different. That's what we're counting. Or we need to consider whether the election campaign itself, the media campaign, the awareness-raising campaign, is not enough to educate voters, how it should be deleted. We need to talk about this as much as possible. It's just that if we start making choices to change these rules, the voters are really gonna get lost. And here I am going back to that cross because you're right. Well, if it's gonna be at least two lines, now we can discuss it. At least 2, so it can be 8, 10, 20, also 50, because it will also be at least 2 lines. What will this deletion look like? I don't know. It seems to me that what you said, not to mention that if two crosses were marked... I'm not sure about that, but it used to be that the first one upstairs mattered, and now, I think, it would be a vote that didn't matter. But I don't know anymore. Perhaps the State Election Commission will respond. It seems to me that if we put two crosses, the voice will be void, but I'm not sure, so that... [[It's important on the same list.]] On the same list, it's the one that's higher up. Well, that's how it used to be, so it's possible it's still up to date. I don't know if anything's changed here or not. If so, I can only confirm that the vote is valid at the time. Well, there were possibilities, but you're right that at the moment these kinds of notes and cross-sections, all the more so that there might still be... So let's say there's a cross in one of these bars, and then there's a cross in another grate. I've already set an example. Well, I don't know, let's say someone wrote something and put a letter of the Polish alphabet in that one grate, e.g. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. These are three intersecting lines, and they were going to be at least two, so that's also going to be an important voice. Someone will write "Szynkowski" Sorry, Mr. And there's a letter in that name. And if he writes this letter in this grate, it will prove to be an important voice as long as it is written above. Well, then, like you said, it's going to be a vote for this candidate. So it's so complicated that I can't imagine how the committee members are going to debate each of these votes. They can sometimes debate for two or three days, which vote is important and which vote is invalid, and they can count it several times. Well, the conclusion is simple: go back to the way it was. That's what I'm gonna make. I do not know whether today or tomorrow, but in my speech I will also make such a request to delete this change, which means that I will propose to go back to what was, which did not create great problems. The point is that we have certain habits and experiences, because we go to elections every now and then. I understand that this does not apply to young people who are going to vote for the first time. Well, that's another thing, but they have to be educated in school first, in class. We're used to it because it's our next election. Well, there's a rule that we have a grate and we have to put something in that grate. We know there's got to be two bars. Whether it's the sign of the.x., whether it's the sign of the.+., whether it's the.y or the other intersecting lines. And that's it. We all know that. If we start saying right now that... And already on TV. I saw one grille completely painted in the other grille with a cross and something else. So it's gonna be so complicated that you can suspect that this time the counting is really going to be faked. Well, because the guy who crossed it off did what he wanted, but it's up to the committee to figure it out. What about the next recalculation? What protests will be! Well, here's where things get complicated, which is why you shouldn't get too rich with what's simple and clear. Let's not complicate our lives. Let's keep what's coming along. Therefore, I think that my amendment in this respect will be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Klich asked Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to answer the question. Yes? [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, because I asked a question when the senator was gone.]] Good. I'd like to invite the senator to the podium...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u205	Maybe I'll say it again. The senator presented specific articles which, according to minorities, should be modified, but you did not say anything about the entire bill. Do I understand correctly that this law can be improved with the help of those changes that the minority proposes, or is it simply incorrect, I think?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u206	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, a similar question was asked earlier by Mr. Czerwinski. He asked if, since this bill has its advantages... She actually has some pros, but it's like we're something really ugly. somehow they beautify, loosen and presented as a new, good product. But he's not like that. And those pros that came in here, these few pros in this bill, they don't eliminate how bad she is. Therefore, our request, made at the committee's meeting, to reject the law in its entirety, because this is the only way to protect ourselves from the huge complications, complications to which this law will lead. And here are some aspects. The first aspect is a political aspect, i.e. that this law will raise huge doubts as to whether it favours certain parties in such a construction of these records, i.e. doubts as to whether it is not another law which gives special powers to the executive authority. That's important, because we're still talking about the power division. And the second aspect is that this bill is very sloppyly prepared. This is an exceptional legislative framework, as evidenced by the number of amendments tabled in the Sejm and the number of amendments tabled with us. And I remind you... I would point out that these amendments would be much, much more if we had more time. None of us, unfortunately... And there will still be amendments in the course of the discussion, and I have just found one that needs to be improved. So is Senator Florek. I would also like to point out that the very way in which we are going to proceed with this law, unfortunately, is slowly getting used to it. It's just outrageous. I mean, we're dealing with a law where there's no proper discussion at the level of the Sejm. And we get this bill, so to speak, completely turned upside down, even after the amendments of the people who reported it. We receive a bill completely upside down, which is de facto a completely new law. We got the comparative material last night. A horse with a row of those who are able to make appropriate, correct corrections in such a short time. I would like to point out that we didn't have time for this at all... Well, I'm overlooking the fact that we had important things in the Senate yesterday. But we didn't have time to ask anyone for an opinion. I have fantastic counselors in our municipality, in Wrocław; these are people who have been organizing elections for many years. I'm sure each of them will take this bill or this comparative material that we got, where you'll see what's changed, and will notice how much trouble we're facing. I, in my speech... I wrote it down now. I'm just sitting here writing it out, writing it out... I've written down 20 or 30 such problems as will be faced by those who will have to make the next election. What's with the corrections? Because it was the question of what these amendments were for, since we reject them; you asked the senator. Mr. Senator, I believe that each of these amendments... Please pay attention to what they are. I really am an experienced self-government officer. Well, each of these amendments somehow saves some small part of this huge work, which is the election. And the basic thing I want to draw attention to is that there's not even a year left for the next election. And all of this is gonna make it as chaos as we've never seen before. And we have some serious elections ahead of us, and I think we also have a presidential referendum this year. Right? I just can't imagine what it's gonna be like. However, I think that you will be more competent than me to tell the President of the State Election Commission how we will allow him to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u208	That is, if we allow him to speak, and we would like to let the President speak now. Are there any more questions? [[They're ……]] You're still a marshal. Well, then, Mr. Chairman, you'll have to wait. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[No, the line is...]] Oh, is there a line? No, Mr. Strictly and Mr. Duda already asked questions. Mr. Marshal and Mr. Senator... Sorry, I didn't notice. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u209	I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority about this part amending the rules on self-government, not elections, but self-government. Art. 19a: the chairman of the district council may issue service orders to staff of the old age and obtain the authority of the official authority over the staff. And here is the reservation: organizational, legal and other tasks related to the operation of the district council. Council of the county, right? Do you not think that such a provision, which causes double servitude, first, old age, and secondly, at the same time, the chairman of the county council Can it cause problems and chaos?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u210	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u211	Mr. Senator, once again... This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. You were at the committee meeting. I'm not here to put my positions up and lean over every rule. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u212	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Flork. Several times in the course of your report, you shared your senator's concerns about the issue of the recognition of votes as valid on the basis of the amended law. I would like to know on what basis you claim that the electoral commission will have problems identifying what is an important voice and what is not an important voice. And now I'd like to say why I'm asking you this. I had the pleasure, with my colleague Wiesław Kilian, to participate as an observer in the parliamentary elections in Georgia. And there, when it comes to their electoral ordination, in fact, the ballot... The voter's supposed to determine... It is meant to be possible to determine the will of the voters, whether it is a circle or a cross, whether it is a cross, whether it is the removal of all other candidates, and leaving one. And I'll tell you, Mr. Senator. I'm sure you'll answer me right away. They're doing a great job there. There, the entire committee, consisting of 7, 9 people plus observers, determines what was the voter's will and whether this vote is an important vote. I took part in the first election round in Georgia, the second election round, and there was no vote counting... There were different voices, different voices, so to speak, ways of determining the will of the voters, but the committee had no problems. On what grounds are you saying that this is going to be a problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u214	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u215	Voices deemed important You said... Based on what do I say there's going to be a problem? Based on the definition in the Act that we vote by placing a sign with at least 2 lines that intersect. And for this reason there will be different interpretations. You're saying that... you said that in the election you watched, it was the committee that determined the will of the voters. That's what you said. So I can't imagine how in Poland committees will determine the will of voters. The committees are to determine what is on the ballot: that the vote is either important or void and for whom we voted, and not the will of the voters. Because this will of voters can be articled in different ways on the cards: through the various stamps that we are allowing at the moment, through various kinds of notes. So are we going to read these notes and determine when there are doubts about the voter's will? Well, because the voter's will, when someone wrote on some, say, councilman's note to make it sound like he didn't want it, so it was definitely about someone else. Well, the committee's not for that. The Commission must have simple, clear, clear rules and an end. This should not be complicated. That's why I think it's possible to suspect from this definition. I'm gonna say it again. That there will be a lot of null and void votes and that there will be a lot of appeals because of the possibility to interpret this provision in different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal. Who's the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u217	To the rapporteur of the minority, Mrs Zdrojewska. I would like to repeat the question that I asked the rapporteur of the majority concerning the article. 19a, which introduces a double service subpoena of the workers of the old age, right? [[Yes.]] I'm not gonna repeat the whole question. We know what's going on. Isn't that going to cause organizational problems, problems with running an office, where submission should be clear and one thing? Of course, but first of all, there should be one thing. I would have agreed if, for some reason, this submission had been passed on to the chairman of the council. Well, such a situation is also possible, in order to strengthen the position of the council you can take the old office. But here we will have two subordinates. Don't you think it'll cause problems, disputes and make it difficult for this office to function?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u218	I understand, and I'd rather say on the basis of my experience than what we talked about at the committee meeting. I'll do my best. These procedures have been reformed twice. It used to be that the city council in the big city had much more powers and the city council president had a much stronger position. However, another reform of the local government, introducing direct elections of the voytes and mayors, has increased their importance in the municipality. It had its positive effects, but it also had its negative effects. The impact of self-governments as positive is known: strengthening power, strong president, more decision-making, greater ties with residents, etc. You can see how popular the presidents are. That's all the positive stuff. But there were also negative effects, e.g. weakening the position of the city council, weakening the function of councillors. And I see some advantages in this bill, because I see in this act, however, the desire to strengthen the function of the council, a certain strengthening. This is where they come from, among other things. the point that says that the staff of the municipal council or municipal council office are following the chairman's instructions. Where did that even come from? This was due to the fact that we had quite bizarre, even shocking situations in which the president or the mayor, the mayor, was in conflict with the chairman of the commune council, who, for example. he could be from the opposition, and there are such situations, he even refused him a desk, he refused the employees of the municipality to follow the chairman's instructions, etc. But you're right, Marshal, that this diocese doesn't really solve the problem either. I think it's a step forward, and I think it's a plus after all, but to the end... In my opinion, there would be no problem if the municipal council office or municipal council office were subordinate to the chairman of the commune council. So that there would be no problem with that, and then we wouldn't have what Mr. Marshal, such a diocese, was paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u219	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Marshal? Who's the question? [[Senator's voice:]] [[No, no, sir. Senator's breaking up.]] Senator Cracks. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Mr. Senator lost his papers again.]] [[Voice from the room: No need.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u220	No, no, don't worry, I'll wait. [[They won't be needed.]] [[No?]] No, the question will be so simple that no documentation will be needed. [[It's a simple question at last.]] The simple question is, all we need is some logic, but it's everyone's mind. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the marks in the grate. Now it's going to be a "x" sign in the grille. Anything else, notes, other stamps, etc. They void the vote, the vote is void. The notes can't be done because the voice won't matter. This change of ordination changes this situation and allows for different solutions. There must be 2 intersecting lines, but there may also be notes and the voice is important despite these notes. The voice is important too. When one of the bars is blackened. So there are different possibilities. [[And the question, Mr. Marshal, please.]] And a question. [[Simple.]] In a situation where there is a zero-one possibility, as in the present ordination, that is either yes or the voice is not important... Is there a greater possibility of unlawful action, or falsification, in a situation where different possibilities are allowed, or is there less?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u222	It was supposed to be a simple question, Mr. Marshal. [[There it is.]] It's one of the hardest. I can repeat what I said earlier: all the indications from Mr Schreiber's justification, which I know are that these changes are supposed to help save votes, that is to say, to make it more possible for such an interpretation to defend the validity of a voice. So far this rigid formalism may have been, and indeed it has been, as your marshal says, zero-one, so easy to interpret, but it has caused great damage, because many people just in a very easy way could have lost their voice. This isn't about people like us, physically and intellectually, it's about people who actually have problems with writing, with such quick and easy voting on the card. I have so much to say. I've talked about this a couple of times. I insist that these changes are for the better. [[Voice from the room: And that's what's important.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u223	Okay... I'm gonna ask you one more question because I've read a study, very extensive, done by the Foundation's specialists. Stefan Batory on those 5 million votes that were not valid in the 2014 elections, and there was a different reason than the one you are talking about. That $5 million... [[Oh, no, because that's a different subject at all...]] No, no, but here, I understand... [[I'm not saying those regulations that...]] [[But calm down, Mr. Senator, ask the marshal a question. Mr. Marshal, ask me a question and the senator will answer.]] When I speak, I'll say it's like going. Not this way, going the wrong way. But you know, different stamps can be inserted. And in a situation where the notes cancel... such notes can be, and often were, abusive words... [[Voice from the room: Now they will be.]] In this situation, if a first or middle letter of the abusive word is cut in the grate, the voice will be valid. I don't say what words... But I want to talk more about a more extreme situation. If anyone, some man is basically incalculable I'm not calling for it, absolutely, but I want to show you the extremes and consequences. In the grate, you put Hakenkreuz, it's... [[Okay, thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] ...the vote will be valid? [[Mr. Senator, this is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u224	Thank you. Please, Lord... [[Will the vote be important, Senator? Although a man... this sign is punished, it's criminalized and... you know, I want to show some consequences.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u225	I think that this question can be better answered as an expert, Professor Hermelinski, but it will probably have to be shaped by a certain practice, these cases will be subject to individual assessment each time, so this... Well, we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u226	Thank you. Mr. Senator, do you want to ask a question too? [[Yes, yes, to the senator...]] There you go. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I would like to continue with the subject raised by Senator Marshal Borusewicz. What is the result of these changes and this completely different situation with regard to these additions, deletions, this other system, can you say, voting? What does that tell you? What was the basis for such laws to be introduced into the bill? What mistake was made or where, according to the applicants of this project, there was a concern that something might be wrong and it needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u228	Mr. Senator, I think I've already answered for the fourth or fifth time actually on the same issue, so I'll be brief. From what Mr Schreiber presented to us at the committee meeting, it follows that this direction is in line with the guidelines of certain European Commission documents, the OSCE, which generally aim to adopt a liberal position, to move away from such an extreme, zero-single formalism for the recognition of votes as important. Well, that's the most important thing here, isn't it? [[May I ask, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u229	You're welcome. [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u230	I know, Mr. Senator, I'm the only one who has a question about whether or not there's evidence... Is there any evidence that this previous system... Did something like this happen that could have caused the election to be faked or faked?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u231	Mr. Senator, there's been a lot. And at the committee meeting, I think it was also quoted. It's a case where someone hastily... well, for example. He literally made a small line, and that's it, no adjustment. And now this example, which was also given by your marshal, that you can even blur one of these squares to save your voice... Well, that's what this is all about. It seems to me that it is appropriate here to move away from such a very rigid formalism. That's all I can say. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u232	Senator Boris-Damięcka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u233	Mrs Marshal, you cannot crack as an adult, responsible man, and a lawyer, and say all the time: I do not know, Mr Schreiber this, Mr Schreiber that... After all, living people who are responsible and who are voting for amendments or the bill that came to your committee are taking part in the committee meeting, in addition to the three committees. So you take responsibility for what you voted on on the committee, and you vote with all conviction that you are right and that this is a fantastic, great bill for the Republic of Poland when it comes to elections. You can't keep ducking, saying you can either answer that question or you can't answer it. You should have asked the marshal to invite the applicant's representative as a guest... [[But it is.]] But why can't we ask him questions about it? [[But, Senator...]] ...to explain it to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u234	Senator, he was just sitting here. It's been a few hours now. The applicant's representative, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, has just left, has been sitting here for hours. You're President Hermelinski. If you wish, of course I'll give you the floor. But for the time being, you're asking the same questions to the Senator rapporteur for the first time. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Not the same questions...]] So if you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I spoke to the legislators half an hour ago, and I came up and asked if we could ask questions as part of the procedure for a representative of the authors of this bill. I got an answer that we can't, that they rule out §33 and §43 of our Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Jacek Włosowicz: We can.)]] [[It's true.]] [[To the rapporteur...]] [[I see.]] So please don't blame us for the fact that I, in turn, resent your rapporteur for not being able to offer... [[Senator, I understand...]] Why is this committee even meeting? It doesn't make any sense, really. That's why we ask so many questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u236	Senator, I accept your comment because it's not a question. I accept that comment. The Senator-rapporteur has been answering for several hours and he has been answering in accordance with his knowledge and also with the scope... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Well, this knowledge of the rapporteur is poor. I'm sorry.]] But please don't make comments like that, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There are questions. Please, Mr. Klich and Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. If I repeat a question, please withdraw it. I didn't notice the question of what the legal opinion of our Senate legal office was about this ordination project. Did the committee have it? Did the committee lean over her? What are the conclusions, Senator, from this legal opinion? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, does the marshal have a question for you as well... [[No, no, I'm here to see Senator Zdrojewska.]] Good. There you go, Senator rapporteur for the majority. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u239	Mr Senator, I started with this by presenting my report that I have cited such key elements of the opinion of our legislators. Well, there have been a lot of legislative remarks, some of these comments have been taken over by me in my amendments clarifying the bill. There were also comments of substance. I've been putting them right here, so I don't want to read it again. There was also one point of a constitutional nature, so surprisingly, that it has not yet appeared in the debate at the Seym level. [[Senatsky.]] In the Seym. There was no constitutional doubt about this bill at all. [[I'm sorry.]] Nor did the applicant share these reservations. I don't know if the senator wants me to read the point by point. I don't think that makes any sense. We can all read this opinion, it has 12 pages. There were various kinds of reservations: constitutional, formal, legislative, partly taken over by us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll just ask. What constitutional objections did the Senate's legal office present regarding this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u241	Good. In that case, once again, especially for the Senator of Krakow. [[Thank you very much.]] There is a question here that concerns a closed catalogue of local law acts. The point is that the way of shaping electoral districts affects, among others. whether a group of voters living in a given area will be included in a circle conducive to or hindering the transfer of the group's votes to the fruitage of the electoral victory, i.e. the acquisition of representation. Since the legislator considers the law to be a universal source of law, e.g. the designation of areas of activity of tax offices, which does not affect in any way the nature, amount or manner of implementation of the obligation or tax law, all the more the more the source of the law generally applicable is the designation of the boundaries of electoral districts. In the Polish Constitution, a closed catalogue of entities entitled to issue rules is adopted. In the case of rules of a generally applicable local nature, i.e. local law, the Constitution also identifies entities entitled to issue them. According to Art. 94 Constitutional acts of local law may be issued only by local authorities and local government authorities. And this allegation is that the electoral commissioner is neither a local government authority nor a local government authority. According to the electoral code, the electoral commissioner is a representative of the State Election Commission and such an authority, according to your patron, cannot issue acts of local law. Therefore, granting him the right to shape electoral districts to councils raises legitimate constitutional doubts. That's the charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u243	I have a question for Senator Zdrojewska... [[Senator Zdrojewska. Good.]] Yes, yes, Senator Zdrojewska. The same question about the bars and the validity of the votes. Yes? If... in the current ordination this situation is zero-one It's either a cross or it's a cross, or it's a crossed line, mostly across, or the voice isn't important. The notes are the voice void, the other stamps void. This ordination provides for different options, among others. It's also a blurry grille. In such a situation, when there are more possibilities, is the tightness of the elections less or greater? It's a logical question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u244	Thank you very much. I mean, it's not just me. This was also mentioned in the discussion, not necessarily every time at the committee meeting, although the committee meeting was very long. But you didn't ask, for example. the views of non-governmental organisations, etc., which mainly concerned the discussion. And when it comes to these crosses, first of all, I would like to point out here that this is my opinion, as it were, from listening to the discussion at the committee meeting, but also following the discussion in the media, etc. I think there's gonna be more trouble, it's just gonna be more trouble than before. In my opinion, the voters are used to putting up some sign of the x or the cross. Yes? Some called it a cross, others called it an x. It's very simple, because if the lines are crossed together, it's clear. And blackness causes something like this... If e.g. Mr. Marshal will put up a sign, you throw a card in the urn, and you can count on something like that. ..and there have been cases like this.. That someone will add... will delete this sign, that is, black it simply, and put in a different place the sign "x". This is a very simple way to fake elections. Very simple. [[If that's the case, the vote will be important, right?]] [[Will it be important?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In such a situation, the voice will be important, as I say. That's why it's outrageous. Yes? I understand it's important. [[The voice won't even...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u245	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u246	Senator, wait a minute, because I have a question for you about what you said. I don't know. I don't follow your reasoning. If we change the electoral order, the electoral code in such a way that the ballots will be taken out by all, with the participation of all the members of the electoral committee... Not like it's happened so far, the cards have been divided and counted in angles. [[Not in the corners, on one table.]] So at what point is this forgery going to happen by adding, I understand, by a member of the election committee who has access to the cards and, so to speak, I prefer to change the voter's decision? At what point? If it's public at this point counting votes, in front of all the members of the committee, everyone will be looking at their hands, and what's more, there's going to be a broadcast from the polling office from counting votes... At what point is this forgery going to happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u247	Yeah, but we have two committees, right? [[Yeah, but I understand...]] Well, in the meantime... [[At what point?]] In the meantime. First of all, the committee's changing, and second of all, someone's pulling it out with their hands. Maybe you can put your hand... I'm not gonna come in here in all sorts of ways stealing a stamp from philatelists, etc. But I assure you, there are ways. It's just that if we introduce e.g. A new vending machine can be tricked, can't it? And very quickly it turns out in the so-called. Laundry that it's very simple. I assure you, in a situation where there are such committees, it may be quite simple, too, and we'll see about that. And I'd like to say 'Cause this is where the state calls for elections in Georgia. I was also an observer in Georgia. In fact, on the election board... what brought me to my attention was a lot of chaos. There was a big chaos when you threw it in the urn, because there's a special person standing there, there's a committee sitting, there's a dozen observers, there's just one big mess. That's what it looks like. Second thing. When counting votes, people with cameras turn around, they record it, they stand with cameras, and so on. It really seems like a lot of chaos. And while it seems that in a situation where everyone is standing around, you cannot do something like this, you know very well that this is what illusionists use, because the bigger the mess, the easier it is to make a very simple fraud. [[But how many illusionists do we have, and how many polling sites do we have? Come on, Senator.]] But if you don't mind... Okay, I'll tell. I'm gonna say... [[Well, well, well.]] ...I am able to imagine the situation that someone is preparing e.g. 50 cards marked with the name of their preferred candidate and then these cards replaced. Well, it's very simple, really, I assure you, it's simple. And you'll see that with standards like those in Georgia... I wouldn't be happy about it at all, because I think it's rather embarrassing for us when it comes to elections. And I'm gonna tell you about a case that wasn't discussed here, a transparent urn. [[Voice from the room: But that was before.]] What's with the transparent urn? It seems that when it is transparent, we are dealing with a greater transparency of elections. Yes, I am the only one who reminds you that elections are also secret, i.e. We have the right to keep the election confidential. Therefore, if we do not have envelopes We talked about this at the committee meeting and we put a card in it and it's going to develop or something else is going to happen to it, and the people in the polls can see who we voted for. That's one thing. Secondly, the people who watch it through transmission, and there will be transmission, will be able to... [[It's okay to fold.]] You can fold, but not everyone will fold. ...they'll be able to see how who... [[Well, you can fold.]] Listen to me. ...they'll be able to see who voted. But there's another one... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But listen to me. Imagine something like this... Don't nod your head at all, but you'll have to polish me, Professor. [[But it's forbidden in the Senate.]] That's why I'm saying "popolice." Please note that there were referendums in Poland when some of the parties asked their members and supporters not to vote at the time of the referendums, i.e. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. And now let's imagine that if it's made public, who voted in a given polling place, then that person will be subjected... well, everyone will know that she did vote after all. Then how are we gonna secure that person's secret vote? How? [[But what are we talking about?]] Well, I'm paying attention. [[But...]] Please? [[The secret of voting or the secret of participation?]] But the secret of your participation is guaranteed, too. [[But what are we talking about...]] Please? [[...the secret of voting or secret participation?]] But you have the right not to be judged. Therefore, this transmission is not carried out in different countries. Well, Georgia's moving. Congratulations on reaching those standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u248	You're still Senator Grabowski, aren't you? Senator, there's still a question for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u249	Senator, I'm sorry, but just a second... Because that's the last sentence you used, about the secret election, and the fact that if there's a transmission, people will see who was... [[Yes.]] ...and gave it up so to speak, the vote in the election... [[Yes.]] And do you? 'Cause I'm sure you're in the election. Have you ever seen the electoral records, what do they look like in the polls? [[Yeah, I saw it.]] That all the neighbors who, to put it this way, locally... who live next door, see... [[Mrs. Marshal, could you ask the senator a question?]] I'm asking the question. Do you know that the electoral census is open to the public and everyone who comes to vote for you and lives in the neighborhood, at a similar address, you actually see the signature on... and these signatures aren't exactly hidden by the members of the committee. [[They're hidden.]] No, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u250	I mean, I don't think you have the option... If you go into the polling room, you can't ask for a look at who voted. That's not gonna happen. [[The voice from the room: But after all...]] [[But he's on the list...]] But when you sign your list on your street, it's usually... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, the neighbors can see, sir, but... [[But...]] Jesus, no... [[But please...]] But that, sir, doesn't mean... [[Calm down, please.]] ...that you have the right to use such data. If I am, for example. a party activist and I want to see if a member of my group voted the way I want, that is, whether he took part in the referendum, although he wasn't supposed to, then all I have to do is watch the recordings and see if he was physically or not. I'm just gonna see it watching the transmission. And that's what I'm paying your attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u251	Well, that's okay. You can also track people going to the polls. [[I'm still...]] Please, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm still here to see you...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Zdrojewska? [[Senator Zdrojewska, yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u252	Well, this is obviously a question of referendum. The referendum counts as a vote. And this election list, which has voters, is a problem here. But since there was a question about Georgia, I have a question for the senator. Did this smooth count of votes in the vote involve two candidates or more?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u253	But, Mr. Marshal, Georgia is not the subject of our debate. You're welcome... [[I understand, but...]] ...so we can focus... [[But Senator Grabowski asked a question with a suggestion.]] I mean, the senator didn't ask a question, he just referred to an example. [[Well, then I'll plead...]] And the marshal is asking for elections in Georgia. So I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, no. I want to clarify this example of Senator Grabowski.]] Mr. Marshal, I am repealing this question because I believe that we will not discuss Georgia. [[All right.]] Are there any more... [[But I would like to say something about this Georgia.]] [[There were two candidates.]] Are there any more...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u254	Because something is worth moving from Georgia to us. That's where the election board takes the urn and drives that urn to people with disabilities. And that's a very good solution. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh, yeah!]] [[Voice from the room: Small urn, second.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u255	Thank you very much. Senator Professor Wind. Yes? You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u256	I have a question for the senator, so if the senator were still here... Because the same thing... [[Please, Senator.]] Your statements are extremely inspiring to the so-called. academic discussion, so it's hard to stop here... However, I have the impression that certain basic concepts are confused here. I understand. And I think lawyers can comment on that. The fact that elections are secret is about who voted. But I haven't heard of the fact that the election itself is secret. I didn't see anyone else wrap their blanket around and walk into... I mean, you can stand in front of the polls and watch who walks in. It's true, isn't it? And the same thing you can see with the camera, you can follow with your own eyes, see. I didn't see anyone wrapped in a blanket or any other blanket going into the polls and dressing up or rewinding in those booths where you vote. So, Senator, my question is this: do you understand it so that secrecy also means secret participation in elections, or as it is commonly understood, i.e. That it's about the secrecy of who voted? As for the transparent urn, it's... After all, you can fold a card if someone is very afraid that it will develop. Here in the Senate, we have a transparent urn and sometimes it was visible as who voted. But it's just a matter of implausibility or conscious decision of the voters. 'Cause if that card folds in half, she can spread out, but if she folds in four, she's not gonna fold out. So this is a very simple issue to solve. My question is whether you understand it so that secrecy also means the secrecy of the act itself, participation in the vote. The fact is that this is important in the case of a referendum. Nevertheless, there is no record of such secrecy being guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u257	Yeah, I get it. [[Yes, please, Senator.]] [[That wasn't a question.]] I mean, there was a question here. And I'll be quick to answer that. First of all, I'm not... I'm an intern, I'm not a specialist in electoral or election. But I'm trying to prepare, read the bill, and also read the opinions. This is the opinion presented by your ombudsman. If you don't mind, I'll get you a piece of that opinion later. In this sense, it questioned the correctness of such choices. As a practice, I realise that, as you have said, sometimes envelopes are a rescue, sometimes it turns out that it is too expensive, it can be submitted, etc., that there are different types of voting and work of electoral committees that can cause some inconveniences. But practice shows that when you change, it's good to change what didn't work out and leave what worked out. It was shocking to me that the people who spoke at the committee meeting, I am talking about the legislator, I am talking about your Members, were not able to give any examples of counterfeiting... In a moment, the chairman of the electoral commission will be responsible, and this will probably answer us with a question about the counterfeiting of people with disabilities or with the help of people with disabilities. As far as I know, there have been no such cases reported. Unfortunately, I have to admit with pain that in an insult to the disabled, this matter was raised at the committee meeting. It was simply outrageous when some legislators, MEPs, people who participated in the committee's meeting suggested electoral fraud involving people with disabilities, including the fact that people with disabilities were deprived of the possibility to vote in correspondence. But thank you for pulling out of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u258	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Who do you have a question for, Mr. Marshal? [[Senator Flork.]] Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[This is the rapporteur for the minority...]] You've sat in your seat unsavoryly, so we're inviting you here. [[Satisfied, and here...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u259	Mr. Senator, should the referendum ordination, when attendance is important, look a little different. than the ordination of the general election?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u260	Well, in general, the same rules apply to all elections when it comes to referendums, too. But in a referendum, I think it's also important to have attendance, number of people and... Hence the senator's question about the publicity of the people voting... Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, it looks like this is how I'm signing, and now I don't think it's clogged, I guess it used to be, I don't remember... I can get information on my website if I can see if my neighbor was at the vote or not, but already on the election committee you can't get information about whether someone voted or if I asked you to flip the card and so on... You don't give it up, you don't tell it. So I can see, see, whether one of my neighbors voted or not. That's exactly what it is. You don't tell me whether Mr. X or Mr. Y or if my neighbor on the street next door voted or not, you can't get that information. So it's true about the information who voted... And in a referendum, I don't know... Then maybe you'll be the chairman of the State Election Commission, because I don't remember exactly what the referendum is like anymore... Surely the issue of attendance is very important as regards the referendum, and therefore these safeguards must be in force there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u261	Are there any more questions for the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you very much. We have the Chairman of the State Election Commission, Mr Wojciech Hermelinski. Would Mr President like to speak? I'm sure... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: If you don't mind, please.]] I would like to invite you, Mr President, to the floor and I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you so much for letting me speak. I would like to put forward arguments that the importance and importance of the State Election Commission considered to be worth emphasising, first of all with regard to the electoral procedure, because for the State Election Commission, the most important thing for us is whether the proposed... well, already adopted by the Sejm and discussed today's law guarantees that the next municipal elections, elections to local authorities or subsequent elections, which will take place in the coming years, can be conducted in the same way as the elections in 2015 and earlier ones quickly, in time, transparently and efficiently. This is the main task for us. As far as substantive issues are concerned, we do not, of course, underestimate it, but we have in the foreground those issues that are important to us, that is, so that we can carry out the next and next elections as efficiently and as quickly as possible, while, of course, keeping all the guarantees contained in the electoral code. Therefore, from the point of view of the State Election Commission, the two issues that I have highlighted recently are quite substantial and strongly, namely the appointment of electoral commissioners, as well as the establishment of a new staff cast, so to speak, the National Election Office. For us, these two institutions are certain pillars, that's what we're building on. After all, as a nine-member electoral commission consisting of judges, we are not alone, without the help of these two pillars, to hold elections. We merely oversee the elections in terms of compliance with the law, appoint Commissioners at the request of the Minister of Justice, deal with complaints that come to us in connection with the work of the committee, ultimately determine and announce the results of the elections. However, the issues related to making the elections from the technical, administrative, financial side, we also have no budget, and no official apparatus is burdened with shoulders, so to speak, the National Election Office and the electoral commissioners. For this reason, we, as the State Election Commission, present our reservations in a very important and strong way. A few words about the electoral commissioners. Senator Pęk said that we are now leaving this judicial system and changing it to a judicial and parliamentary system, I think that's what the senator said. That's not what I'd call it. For me, this is now being done as a ministerial-parliamentary-judge system, because the judge's element is already at the gray end. I mean. Let's be clear. I would like to say that the legislator has the right to shape the electoral system as he thinks it is appropriate that, of course, it should perform the function it serves, that is, the efficient and fair conduct of elections. And of course. So is the state here. Do you remember the senators? There are different electoral systems: the judicial system, the government system, the mixed system. You can give examples of different countries here, but not to prolong... Besides, these were examples. However, we believe that the legislator should be consistent. If he thinks the judge's system failed the exam... Although I do, too. As here the senators asked why he failed the exam, and the answer was not given, neither did the Sejm level. To this day, the substantive answer, because of course there were different answers, I did not hear the question of why the judicial system had to go away. The current system, which is being created, unfortunately I call a hybrid, because the worst part is if you take part... As the Members have said, for example,: part we take from the German system, part we take from the British That's the other committee. The Polish part remains, that is to say, we remain, as the State Election Commission. Mr Schreiber, at the committee meeting yesterday, if I remember correctly, answered the question, said that it doesn't really matter if there will be a minister like that or another minister of justice or home affairs. Because one minister replaces the other, so it doesn't change anything. He's changing. Ladies and gentlemen, it changes because the whole environment changes, so to speak. For now we have, I would say, a legal system headed by the Minister of Justice, which is the body that supervises the justice system from the administrative side. He presents the State Election Commission to the commissioners and the State Election Commission to the judge; 9 judges to the commissioners. There are also district election committees, which consist of judges... They will probably be gone when it comes to parliamentary elections and these committees are in the parliamentary elections. And there are Commissioners, so far they have been appointed, Commissioners of Judges; in the territorial committees the Judges are the Presidents. This system goes away and from this system... But this system creates a closed whole. And now, if we're changing ministers, from the point of view of the entire electoral system... As far as the transition from the judicial system to the system is concerned, let's call it government or whatever else we say, the Home Minister is, I think, the right minister to appoint Commissioners. Except you can't say nothing changes around here. The whole system's changing. There is a change, the transition to another system, the non-Judge's way of simplifying the name. This is therefore an important difference. As long as we now appoint the Commissioners at the request of the Minister of Justice... The Minister is presenting these nominations to us. They appear every once in a while due to the expiry of the term of office of the individual commissioners. The terms are individual, so they don't end all at once, but they end gradually. We therefore have no problem with the appointment of Commissioners. As a rule, those candidates presented to us by the Minister of Justice are judges, i.e. we as the judicial community know them more or less. The minister presents us with their entire dossier, we meet with the candidate, we talk to him, we want to gain as much knowledge about him as possible. Recently we have appointed a Commissioner in Bydgoszcz, a very excellent lawyer, who has been a long term in the district committee. This is often the case when experienced candidates come to us, who have worked for some years on the district committee, so they have a lot of practice in the field of electoral law. Well, this is going to be a different situation, because we're going to have to. Sorry about the word. In the meantime, I'm gonna have to call you Suddenly 100 commissioners, for which we will have 60 days. The Minister will present these nominations to us. And I'm afraid here... just so we're clear... This is not about political issues. I'm talking about lack of knowledge, experience, practice. I don't think that's gonna happen. To ensure that all candidates presented by the Minister for the Interior are candidates at least of such knowledge as current candidates or current Commissioners. Election law is a niche area and there are few specialists in this area. Yes, there are constitutionalists, but I don't think they're applying to the position of commissioner. So they're probably just gonna be people right after graduation, because the only requirement is And the senators were talking about it. This is a higher education in law. So that I suspect that there will be no experience, no practice that is necessary as Commissioner. Therefore, I suspect, I am almost certain that there may be a situation that some of the candidates recommended by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will not meet the criteria that we expect. To be clear, the substantive criteria. Well, then, they know... There may also be a situation in which the candidate presented will, so to speak, be affected by some other flaws. Criminality... Well, there might be something like that, and the minister might miss it. The question therefore arises: what's next? If we refuse to appoint this candidate, then the Minister He's gonna introduce us to the new guy? The rules don't regulate it. It is likely that the Minister will wait until 60 days, and the next day he will appoint a candidate as Commissioner. Well, we can't accept the situation. I don't know how many they're gonna be, but I suspect they're gonna be. That the commissioners who are our attorneys... The electoral code says that the commissioner is a representative of the State Election Commission. If the accused has requested the appointment of an attorney or a defender, but is dissatisfied with him, he has the right to ask for a change, to appoint another representative from his office. Well, we're not gonna have that right, I'm afraid. So that here it will happen that the Commissioners will be appointed by the Minister, and much less so by the State Election Commission. That's one thing. The second thing, in immeasurably more important, is the question. And here are even more stringent provisions for the appointment of the head of the National Election Office. According to the Code, the head of the National Election Office is our executive body. He is also Secretary of the State Election Commission. Under the current rules, it shall be appointed by the State Election Commission at the request of the Chairman of the State Election Commission. Now the rules are about to change. The first such self-correction of Members was aimed at making candidates for the head of the National Election Office... Because I would like to emphasise that within 30 days the mandate of the current head of the National Election Office expires, and within these 30 days we must choose a new person. Well, the first such self-correction led to the fact that candidates, 3 candidates, will be presented to the State Election Commission of the Sejm, the Senate and the President. However, then Members for unknown reasons I mean, I can guess why, in a moment's time, they decided to change this procedure and introduced the principle that the candidates would be presented to us by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. And so it was passed by the Sejm. So this is going to be the three candidates who will be rated by the heads of the Sejm, the Senate and the President. Well, I'll admit it's at least awkward for me. I don't really want to see myself as the head of any of these offices, if the minister's message is this: I present to you three candidates, give them an opinion, but I don't have to take that opinion into account at all. I'll admit, it's a little awkwardly done, and I would feel touched here. And it actually works... And that I would feel affected not only as the head of this firm, but also as the hub of this organ, because it somehow, indirectly, strikes a little, sorry, and in the Sejm, and in the Senate, and in the president, because this is how these opinions are ignored. It seems to me, however, that the opinion of these bodies should not be ignored by the Minister. The Minister may consider it, or may not consider it, because the essence of the opinion is that. And it's also disrespectful. I'm sorry I said that. The State Election Commission, because if this 30-day deadline is set and we have three candidates to choose from... Well, like I said before, it's kind of like choosing a Ford car. You can choose any color provided it is black. So we're a little bit in a situation like this: you have these three candidates and that's it. And I am even more convinced that, when it comes to knowledge, practice, the experience of these people, it will, unfortunately, be less than it is for Commissioners. Please remember, Dear Senators, that when it comes to the head of the National Election Office, there is a really great knowledge and practice required here. And for three years as judges in the State Election Commission, we have come to the conclusion that those who are in charge of the national office In other words, not only the boss, but also the directors of individual teams are indeed people with really great knowledge and great experience. This allows us to cooperate more peacefully with them. It would be really hard for us to work like this. It's impossible, I'm afraid. If we hadn't chosen any of these three candidates. 30 days pass and the minister appoints us to be the head of the National Election Office, the office on which, as I said, he resists, resists... In fact, we are primarily based on it, and this office is based on all electoral or referendumal actions. And then there's the person who... Let us also remember that the new head of the national office also comes with people he will want to cooperate with, which is a change of practically the entire management, not just the head of individual teams. Perhaps so, too. Don't give me that, God of the workers. If this is happening a few months before the election... Because I suspect that if the bill enters into force somewhere in mid-January, then 30 days to change, which is mid-February... Well, then this new boss has to install himself in some way, so to speak, he has to get acquainted with his employees, and he'll probably bring in new people, his own. It will be another month, and it will actually be less than six months to make choices with new people. I'll admit I really can't imagine it. So that, in our view, at this very time, such a sensitive time, the authorities should refrain from any sudden movements that would be directed towards a human revolution. I'm afraid this will bring chaos here. As I have already pointed out, this may even threaten some kind of destabilization of elections. I am not saying that there will be no election, but chaos, destabilization, also caused by other circumstances, which I am about to mention, unfortunately, may occur. I regret to say that this is a lack of trust on the part of the legislator in the State Election Commission. This is, I'm sorry, some kind of bat that's preparing for the State Election Commission: if you don't pick a new person, I'll throw it to you as the Home Secretary. I'll admit, I don't really understand why. There was no reason given, only half-words were operated, especially during the session of the Sejm Committee on the part of... A spiral of such obsessive suspicion was shot to some monstrous size. Well, unfortunately, the Election Control Movement aimed at this at that session of the Sejm Committee. These are such suspicions that the State Election Commission and the National Election Office may somehow... not fake elections, but lead to some irregularities. Please bear in mind that at the level of the national office or state commission, we do not have any protocols at all and we have no possibility of falsifying or falsifying them. That's not an option at all. That is why I am saying that this is a kind of whip which is not allowed by the State Election Commission to choose freely its executive body. Well, it is clear to me that any institution that wants to benefit from assistance, which is extremely important, should be able to freely choose the helper, especially if it is intended to ensure the proper conduct of the elections. Well, I can't imagine any other situation, so it's all the more surprising to me. I would like to say that it is postponed, so to speak, the resignation or liquidation of the current staff of the State Election Commission by two years, and this is the human revolution in the National Election Office. Well, I don't know if you can. was to coordinate it. You have to be consistent. One could say this: already now, today or on the date of the Act's entry into force, the State Election Commission is being abolished and a government or administrative system is being introduced, while a system of imposing the head and management of the National Election Office is being introduced. It was either a state commission and a national office in its current state. In particular, this concerns the elections that are due to take place soon. Or be consistent and change everything together. It's gotta be coordinated somehow. I don't really understand this gap, because the state committee is at the head of this pyramid, which is already a strict administrative pyramid. The judges disappear from it, the judges rumble, I'm sorry, but that's the word I have to use. Only at the summit, on the top, is the State Election Commission left as a kind of camouflage. I'm sorry, but I don't know why this camouflage is meant to serve. Well, is it supposed to serve that if the elections do not succeed, say, if they are destabilized, then the State Election Commission will be guilty of being accused of incapacity? Well, I don't know if that's what it's supposed to be. I hope not, but to me, this trial is a little incomprehensible. There are no consequences here. I'd be here... There's one more thing I'd forget. It is a question of dismissing the head of the National Election Office. As far as Commissioners are concerned, this provision is clear And present, and new. He says that if the Commissioner does not carry out his duties or does them improperly, the State Election Commission shall revoke him. As far as the head of the National Election Office is concerned, the current provision allows the State Election Commission and for its appointment, and for its appeal, even without a reason. The code doesn't give any reasons. We can cancel the head of the national office at any time. In turn, the provision already introduced by the Sejm, on the basis of which we can cancel the head of the National Election Office, is very enigmatic and, I would say, I'm sorry for the word Sloppyly formulated. Art. Paragraph 5 of the 70th amendment introduces a new §2b:.For the appeal of the Head of the National Election Office, provision §2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. It's about art. 190 §2 of the electoral code, which says so: The Head of the National Election Office is appointed by the State Election Commission from among three candidates submitted by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, in a request submitted after consulting the Head of the Sejm Chancellery, the Head of the Senate Chancellery and the Head of the President's Chancellery. I don't really understand how we're supposed to apply this rule right now, whether we're supposed to... if we can even appeal the head of the National Election Office, or if we have to ask the Minister for permission. Well, I don't really know. This recipe says that out of three candidates... Well, if we want to cancel, those candidates will be gone. There's only one left, the one who's been called. This provision is not understandable at all, and it practically binds our hands, because in a situation where the head of the National Election Office is acting inefficiently, he does not fulfil the obligations imposed on him, we are not in a position to dismiss that head. I must say that a whole group of these new rules regarding the appointment and dismissal of the head of the National Election Office... In my opinion, it is possible to consider whether this violates the Constitution, primarily the Constitution's preamble, which speaks of the cooperation of the authorities. I don't really know what it's like to interact with a person, I'd say, imposed, but also an article. 2nd Constitution, which speaks of a democratic legal state. Well, it's hard to talk about a democratic legal state when the enforcement authority basically disallows an independent nine-member body consisting of electoral judges, the highest electoral authority. I also wonder if the principle of social justice is being violated if it is understood as an activity which undermines this systemary organisation of elections. So that these doubts are subject to your consideration. One more thing, if you don't mind, which one I'd like to talk about. It is a question of unequal treatment of entities that submit candidates to regional and regional electoral committees. In the light of Art. 178 and Article 5 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 182 of the 9 seats that are guaranteed for the members of these committees, instantly 6 seats are automatically secured for political parties and coalition parties, and only 3 seats remain for civil committees or for committees of organisations, and I think they are no less important. I don't know if citizens' committees are even more important than party committees. I'm sorry, with all due respect to the party, but it's the citizens who have, so to speak, a leading role in the election process. I think it's a violation of the article. 32 Constitutions as well as Art. 169 Constitution, which says that elections to local government bodies are equal. I understand this equality not only so that everyone has one vote, but also that this equality concerns the course of the whole procedure, the formation of electoral committees and other stages of the electoral process. And that miserable... We also have reservations about this miserable sign I'll admit that to me it's mostly illogical. It's like this. There's a definition of the sign "x"... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 point 2 of the novel is the character of the letter of the alphabet. This sign is written as 2 lines intersecting at some angle. Next to the sign is a definition and by definition it is clear that this is not a "x" because it can be... [[It could be anything.]] It could be at least 2 lines, so it could be 2 lines, it could be 4 lines, it could be 6 lines. But basically this definition doesn't really matter, because in art. 41 It is said that the addition to the voting card of additional numbers of lists, names or other characters or additions to the voting card, including in or outside the box, does not affect the validity of the vote cast on it. So basically It doesn't have to be It could be a dot, it could be three dots, it could be a triangle, it could be two triangles, it could be some crosses. It could be all kinds of... whatever comes to mind, he can paint it in this grate and even next to the grate. And then it could be a problem. I have to tell you... Dear Senators, yesterday on the Internet I saw such a thing. I let myself print this to show you. One of the netizens gave such advice as to make the voice important. He cut off all the cards... Well, the voter's got to get in the scissors booth. He cut off all the empty bars and left only the one on which he put the cross on the person voting. Will it be an important voice? I'll admit I don't know. First of all, I'm concerned that the voice or the actions of the person who did this. Except it'll be untraceable, because if that voice puts it in an envelope, it won't be known who did it. It may be subject to a criminal code, under Article. 248, which speaks of destroying or damaging electoral documents. Because the election card is an election document. Even though this may be considered a crime, will this card be valid? I don't know. The second boarding house, in turn, advises that all uncut bars be painted red with a flamaster and leave a cross only in one grate, next to the name of the candidate who is voted for. But will blurry bars testify to this... If this is a proportional vote, will it be possible to say that the vote is important? That's where the first person counts. If it's a vote for the mayor's seat or a vote for the mayor, then the vote may not be valid. I'll admit I'm really having second thoughts here, and I'm afraid... Perhaps even less emphasis would be placed here on any possible forgeries. I am afraid that all this will lead to chaos and that one of your senators mentioned it. They will have problems establishing the intentions of the voters. Then they'll probably ask the higher-ranking committee for interpretation, as was the case in 1989, and I remember that there was a lot of this kind of doubt at the time. and higher-ranking committees will request interpretation of the State Election Commission. I understand the intentions of the applicants. They wanted to avoid falsifying elections. Except that if in the code This is the case now, and so has been the iron rule for years that the voice is important. Only if there is one cross placed in one grate on the card, and if there are more crosses, then the voice is void, then it will be very difficult to teach the elector to apply this iron rule. Members of the State Election Commission remember that in 2015 questions were raised as to whether to vote on the page with a list of contents on the electoral card. So, despite the efforts that we make to conduct education in this area, I fear that for a few months it will be really difficult to completely change the current habits or knowledge of voters, because this is a 180-degree change. I'd like to talk about the disability issue, but I'm gonna get your senators' attention first... no one's talked about it, not during the work of the Sejm Committee, not today. Namely, two new responsibilities are imposed on the State Election Commission. I am saying this not because we want to avoid responsibility or excessive work, because we have never defended ourselves or defended ourselves against it. But these are responsibilities that go beyond the objectives and the essence of the State Election Commission. Namely, a duty is imposed on the committee... It's about art. 5 point 12 of the amendment to Article. 17 electoral codes. I think one of your senators has already raised this issue. It was also mentioned in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau cited here. Namely, the State Election Commission is required to create or amend voting circuits, to set up or amend territorial committees when the relevant electoral commissioners fail to do so. The State Election Commission is to first call on them to fulfil this obligation, and if they do not, the State Election Commission will replace them and divide them into circuits. And here's what I have to say: we, as members of the State Election Commission, as judges, have no instruments, no knowledge. And yet this is the essence of the matter: the commune is divided into circuits or districts by the council of the commune, that is, an organ that has been on the site for years, which knows all the conditions of geodesic, structural, population or historical. These conditions need to be taken into account and those people can best make a division. If this obligation were to be passed on to the State Election Commission... We can't do this. Are we supposed to be there? This isn't about taking a map and then taking a ruler and a circus to draw boundaries. You have to be there, you have to see it all, you have to talk a little bit. If there are more problems like this This may be the case, as I have said, inexperience, lack of experience and knowledge of Commissioners The situation can be very multiplied, so to speak. It is rightly stressed here by the legislators that the division of the municipality into districts is the task of the municipalities themselves. That's not all. I'll keep going. If the State Election Commission were to turn into such a quasi-commissioner, then since the decision... According to the Code in force, if the municipality council does not divide the municipality into districts or divide it in an improper way, the residents of the municipality shall have the right to appeal to the electoral commissioner. If the electoral commissioner also makes a decision that is flawed in their view, the right to appeal to the State Election Commission is still applicable to this decision. In the new legislation, the novel proposes to shorten... from three levels to two levels, the Commissioner and the Commissioner's decision to appeal to the State Election Commission. If we are now to become the body of first instance, that is to say, this body which constitutes the "unacceptable," we cannot be the body which constitutes the body, because this is the task of the commune itself... But let's even assume that's the case. Then we should have an appeal against our decision. To whom? We have no higher authority than us. It is certainly not the President, because the President is only calling us, but it is not an administration to settle such issues. And the constitution in the article. 70 says that the procedure is at least two-way, which means there must be another administrative instance so that the way to court can then be opened. Because here is a good thing by the legislator made that in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal one and a half years ago a road was opened to the court and it is still possible to appeal against these decisions to divide the municipality into districts. And here... I do not know whether a possible appeal to the court will serve directly from our decision... This has not been foreseen by the legislator at all, so in my opinion this provision is inconsistent with the principles of logic and the principles of correct legislation. He may also be accused of violating the article. 2 constitutions, because the principles of correct legislation were derived from this article. Second thing, the second obligation imposed on the State Election Commission. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 160, where its responsibilities are mentioned, point 8a is added and it is said that the State Election Commission is required to check selected ballots, as the provision states, in order to rule out the suspicion of irregularities in the course of elections in the event of a reasonable suspicion of irregularities. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we're talking about irregularities in the vote, that's what law enforcement is for, the prosecutor or the police. We are not even allowed to do this because the Penal Code requires us to report such irregularities. Art. 304 k.p.k. Says that state and local authorities who, in connection with their activities, have learned of the commission of a criminal offence pursued by the public, are obliged to inform the prosecutor or the police immediately, so we are not even allowed to handle such investigations. What would it look like in practice anyway? Are we going there, opening up all these bags, recounting these voices, or are these bags imported to us, to the PKW, and we're starting to work here? I mean, there could be charges that some of the documents were killed, that something was lost... In my opinion, this kind of duty cannot be involved at all, for objective reasons, not for subjective reasons, not because we do not want to accept it, but simply because of objective reasons. And one last thing, disabled people. Indeed, much has been said here, a lot of arguments have been put forward. I'm probably not gonna add anything new here. In any case, I would just like to say that as far as the 2014 elections are concerned, 1668 people with disabilities took part in the vote, that was the exact number. And in the parliamentary elections in 2015, about 45,000 envelopes were sent, about 40 thousand were returned. There is a large discrepancy, but it must be remembered that in the local elections the possibility of voting correspondence for people with disabilities is limited, it is limited only to people who are affected by a serious and moderate degree of disability, i.e. the former first and second degree of disability... [[Voice from the room: Significant.]] Significant, yes, significant and moderate. That's why this number is the smallest. But unfortunately, I cannot agree with the arguments I have heard, especially those which were behind the deletion of the correspondence vote. There were such arguments as I heard during the session of the Sejm committee that there were cases of sales of votes. I'll admit that I don't really imagine that a disabled person is going to go to the commune and ask him to send his papers, and then he's going to sell that vote for a few pennies. Well, I don't know, maybe there were individual accidents, but I don't really want to believe it. There were also allegations that in such a situation you could add an envelope to the urn... After all, you can check how many envelopes were sent, how much was in the urn, if the envelopes in the urn were more than sent, it actually indicates a crime, but there were no such accidents. Here I think Mr Schreiber was talking about the fact that Braille covers remain and that people with disabilities can vote by proxy. Well, I'm sorry, Braille pads aren't any kind of grace. These Braille caps have to stay, they are meant for visually impaired and visually impaired people. And these people most often take part in elections, they most often come themselves, move smoothly and most often come to the polling place. [[For the blind...]] And that's not a very big percentage for all disabled people. Most people with disabilities are people with mobility restrictions. And for them, it's a problem... For them, it's no solution that they're going to go to their uncle to draw up a power of attorney, because they have to go there, and that's what this is all about, to avoid this trouble, this myth for them, which is particularly cumbersome because of their disability. If the applicants, Members of the applicant or the designers here have seen any possibility of abuse in connection with the correspondence vote, then... I'd be able to do that. Maybe not abuse, but forgery of the intentions of the voter saw more precisely in the case of a proxy vote. 'Cause if the voter says to the proxy, "Listen, go, vote for Mrs. Krysia." I'm sorry I said that. And he's gonna go and vote for Mr. Martin, so no one's gonna control it. And here is a greater possibility of falsifying the intention of the voice. I'm not saying that it's a fake voice, it's a fake intention. And that also affects the final outcome. So I'll admit that... Besides, ladies and gentlemen, remember that there are 39,000 districts in Poland. If you disintegrate these disabled, 1.5 thousand or a little more, in so many districts in the local elections, it will turn out that this is some promila, it is some very small fraction of a promila. There's nothing to talk about here at all, in my opinion. I really don't understand those allegations that are supposed to make a complete deletion of the correspondence vote, because it's... I don't know, you have to be a very distrustful person to claim that the disabled will sell votes. It's the same thing to be a mistrustful person when it's said that judges have, I don't know, falsifying votes, falsifying protocols in the State Election Commission, not to check out... and that's why they have to be eliminated. Neither can the commissioners, according to the bill, act as commissioners and oversee elections because, I don't know, they're not gonna work either. I don't really know what it is. The notary is in this new one with all due respect for notaries. The State Election Commission is better than the judge. Well, unfortunately, none of the designers explain that. That's basically everything I'd like to say. I would like to convey these comments to you, asking you to lean over them and consider them. We are most concerned about recruitment issues and how to appoint Commissioners and the National Election Office, because, as I said, the most important thing for us is the course of the whole electoral procedure. The aim is to make the elections, as they have been so far, as in 2015, efficient so that they run fairly, quickly. And it seems to me that the State Election Commission, the electoral commissioners, judges and the national office last year, in 2015 guaranteed this. I don't know why they don't think they're gonna guarantee it now. I ask you to consider this. If... As I understand it, you have announced some questions. I don't really know what the procedure is, whether it's now or... [[Now.]] [[Now.]] It's up to you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u263	Wait a minute, Judge, you'll answer the questions. And then Senator Klich volunteered... [[Question.]] Good. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the State Election Commission for the item on the agenda. Your first question is Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, and then another Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Judge, I've been waiting... Because at the beginning of your speech, you said you were going to raise the issue of electoral forgeries. We discussed here for a long time, and the opposition senators also questioned whether such forgeries were there or not. I would just like to refer to 2014. As far as I have good data, there were 1985 electoral protests in the country, only 62 of these protests were recognized by the courts. Yeah, pretty small interest. Probably some of these protests were unreasonable. But I'd like a few dates... These are not only cases concerning 2014, but also earlier elections, because I also found such data. In 2010, 98 more ballots were taken out at the Brussels embassy during the presidential election than were issued. This is one of the cases. Wałbrzych 2010 It's been paid and it's also found courtly The election bribes were paid for voting for councillors, in this case It's the Civic Platform. 2011, Warsaw Białołęka. Former police chief in the trunk was transporting voting cards from the presidential election. Then 2014, a small village, the municipality of Nurzec-Station in Podlasie. One of the alderman candidates lost the election with one vote, but two more ballots were removed from the urn than they were issued. And maybe one more example. The District Court of Kielce decided to repeat the elections to the Council of the Municipality of Opatów, because when one of the councilmen was elected, the election bribery took place... [[Question, Senator, question.]] I'm on my way to the end, but I want some of these examples... And a few other common examples. Because I think that the Platform senators, and we are meeting with such cases, i.e. It is about the electoral protests of those who participated in the elections and voted for themselves. Well, I don't think anyone's wrong about voting for themselves. However, according to election protocols in specific committees, these individuals had zero votes. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] And now I have a question on the basis of these-- Judge, is it easy for you, according to the current rules of the electoral code, to fake elections at the level of individual election committees? Is it difficult, or is it simple? Is the system for counting votes in individual groups... [[Thank you, Senator. Now, right?]] No, no, no. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Is it hard to fake... Is it hard to detect... [[But please...]] Is it difficult to detect such a forgery and prove it? [[Senator Waldemar Sługocki: Question: Does Ala have a cat?]] That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u265	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[A slap and a dot... and that could be an important voice, too.]] [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: May I, yes?]] Please, Judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u266	As the senator stressed, where is the easiest forgery... And here, speaking of forgery, we agree that it's the easiest way to fake the results. 'Cause it's the most handy place, so to speak. At the level of the regional committee. Indeed, there may be a forgery. Although it is difficult to imagine, because the selection board, as we all know, is composed of representatives of various electoral committees, and so I cannot imagine that everyone will agree that they will cast votes or forge votes in favour of only one representative of one committee. I can't imagine a situation where other committees would agree to this. We also have men of confidence. And the novel introduces a significant increase in the powers of men of trust, and national observers are also introduced. So that here is kind of a double or even triple security, a double or triple guarantee of the security of the voting process at committee level. There is no more counting in groups, not only according to the current novel, but already for a year, i.e. since a ban on counting in groups was introduced. Besides, we, as the State Election Commission, have already recommended in our guidelines much earlier that we move away from this very system of sharing into groups. This solution was supposed to speed up the counting of votes, but it could also sometimes cause various wrong situations. There are also opportunities for today... For a year now, it is possible for husbands to film trust with cameras or various devices recording images and sounds... So that here these guarantees are. But of course, as the senator pointed out, by quoting these examples here... Well, there are individual examples, and I've heard of them too, and I'd probably be able to name a few myself. But the point is that it doesn't translate into a general election result. Because when it comes to the possibility of falsifying, I look at it as a lawyer, i.e. If no one provides me with proof and if I don't see... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Judge. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please respect the speech of the judge, Mr. President, and listen.]] [[We're discussing...]] If I don't see at least the indictment and, above all, the conviction, I can't claim that the election was generally falsified. and that the election result was falsified in 2014. In fact, there are no tests. In addition to one study carried out by the Batory Foundation... But I think all the senators are aware of that. Of the randomly selected 100 circuits, about fifty thousand votes were checked and for those across the country, a total of 18% Around sixty-six percent of the votes were... that nullity of the votes was due to the fact that there was no sign, no cross. One of the senators explained it, I think... I suspect it was about seymikas that voters aren't very aware of, and aren't very interested in these candidates for the Seym. It's different when it comes to municipal elections. In turn, about twenty percent of the votes that were not valid were due to the fact that too many crosses were placed, i.e. because of the inability to use the electoral card. I don't have any other evidence. I believe Mr Ziobro, after saying something about this, said that he was going to discipline the prosecutors somehow so that they could look through the electoral documents to see if there was any irregularities, but then he himself said that most of these documents had been destroyed. As far as I am aware, these documents are, they, ladies and gentlemen, in the municipalities or in the premises rented by the municipalities. These are huge sacks, there are tons of papers, the municipalities still have to bear the cost of storing this. So that the documents are, there are no obstacles, if there was a will from law enforcement to review it and check it out, then we would be sure, but I suspect that no one will because of the great work and cost. So there's no evidence of forgery today. It's obvious to me: it all started with this unfortunate IT system, hastily ordered at some company that unfortunately couldn't properly prepare it. If it was only three months to prepare such a program, it was known in advance that it wouldn't work, and without any tests. So it wasn't a surprise. One can only wonder if the State Elections Commission should not say directly: the system does not work, we count manually, the results will be next week. Then there wouldn't be a whole problem, and maybe he'd be a little minimalized. Then all suspicions began, various types of intrusions into the seat of the State Election Commission, and then basically the slogan of the falsified elections was circulating all the time. Except no one presented it, at least I didn't see it, no evidence of a forgery. I'm talking about general forgery, I'm not talking about small-scale forgeries, because these kind of stories were, are and probably will, there's not 100%. guarantees, a way to prevent such activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u267	Thank you, Judge. Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, you have persuaded me to make an amendment that involves not being able to make an election in such a suit of change of people, ideas and others... unless we wish for a Polish-Polish war. Here's the question. Do you know of a country where an electoral commission based on officials and electoral commissioners have such powers: verification of letters of support, holding elections, imposing prohibitions and orders, protests? What's important is that this clerk is going to be studying the finances of the election committees, so he's pointing to success or failure... Second thing. Are you familiar with such facts... In capitalism, in a market economy, I'm sorry, you trade everything. Today you can trade in such a way that you can collect voices, confirm it with electronic equipment and publish these results... and may be the basis for a request, a request for some privileges... Shouldn't that be... And a third. In comparison with the current situation, is the issue of financing the election campaign, whether it's a state or a local government... If there's no indication of what kind of money it's gonna be run... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u269	Thank you very much. Please, Judge. [[Making choices, not...]] [[Of course, it's about the election, not the election campaign.]] Yes. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u270	Well, maybe I'll start at the end. When it comes to holding elections, the National Election Office always preliminates election spending if it knows what year it will be. There's always a reserve of about 100 million for possible crashes, so to speak, for example. referendum. Elections in 2014, cost PLN 238 million. If there's a second committee, it's... that's almost 100 million, if this is the second shot, so to speak, the committee to determine the results, it's going to be another 100 million, which is 190 million for the committee. Plus, there's gonna be security cameras, cameras, the Internet. I mean, I think it's a good idea if the legislator thinks it's a good idea, for example. During the election, during the vote or in the count of votes, the voter, let's assume that in Sieradz he will press the key on his computer because he will want to see how the count of votes is going on in committee No 158 in Świnoujście. Well, that's a good solution, except it's a cost, which takes a lot of equipment. Because since, as I hear, there are four cameras on every committee... Well, these aren't things that cost 20 zlotys either. Installation, servers... And that takes time, there must be invitations to tender, European and EU tenders, and this is taking place. And the appeals from this... So I'm afraid that the national office will not be able to do something like this for the local elections. For the next time, perhaps so. I'm sure that's a good idea. We've counted the costs. If you count all the cameras, all the tooling, the new committees, the costs will be over 600 million zlotys. In 2014 it was PLN 238 million. The question has been answered, because I will forget the senator, if I know any systems... Well, of course, you can talk about the German system. But not in a way that we're going to take over a piece of this, that we're just going to take over the minister's issue, and the rest aren't. There for years, there has been so-called for dozens of years. the state system. Everything is organized there by the State: Minister of the Interior, Minister of Justice and ministerial officials. Except, there he is, you have to admit, another... For years there has been such a dominance of the state factor in all or in many areas: there are professional authorities, there only the state is conducting exams, recruiting lawyers or legal advisers. And it doesn't exist here, it's more of a factor, I'd say, non-state, more pro-Citizen. So it would be so hard to move the whole system to our system alive. Well, first of all, it's a question of suspicion. There won't be anyone there to suspect that the ministerial officer has forged the protocol. And unfortunately, we still have this suspicion, lately, I'm afraid, as if increased by the actions of some institutions. You can imagine, for example. the Czech system, where the elections are conducted by the equivalent of our Central Statistical Office. And it doesn't bother anybody either. Everyone's used to it. No one's gonna think of questioning the integrity of these choices. Besides, our judicial system was pointed out by the Venice Commission years ago as such a model example for countries of new or reborn democracy. And it didn't really bother anyone. He is also still in some countries, perhaps in Slovakia, in some countries of the former Soviet Union, perhaps also in one of the countries in South America. The senator also mentioned Internet issues. As I understand it, it's about... [[The secret of the vote. In view of the advances in technology, the possibilities...]] Yeah, but here, I understand, the senator is on the subject of an online vote... [[No, no.]] No? [[Can I film it in the cabin, and could it be the basis for a claim for the support of a candidate? Or earlier, I could be encouraged to take part in a vote, and the evidence would be the photos of the vote.]] Well, yeah, here... I would have seen it a little differently, and that was also the case, and that was also the opinion of the Ombudsman, the question of the secrecy of the vote at the very moment of the vote. Yeah, 'cause it's actually here... I understand the designers' intention that there should be a person at the urn who's making sure there's nothing in there. I've been told it's a French pattern. Now that there was an election for the president of France, there was a man standing next to every urn with, like, a hole in the urn, opening, closing... He opened his voice before throwing it in, and when the voter left, he closed it so that some random voice wouldn't get in there. Well, it's a role model. Except it has to be done carefully. I hope so. 'Cause that person has already been introduced 'cause that's not gonna be a reason to charge for a breach of the confidentiality of votes. Yeah, but it can happen that the camera accidentally shows the person's face, and yet the person who's standing at the urn can also see somehow... and at the same time somehow there might be a voice out there if that voice isn't in the envelope or the ballot isn't filed. Well, that's what you're afraid of. I think it's gonna be rare accidents, and I understand the intentions, and I understand that it's meant to be transparent. [[Mr. Chairman, there's an envelope.]] An envelope. Yeah, there's an envelope. Maybe it would be good if the bill included an obligation to use the envelope, because there's only possibility. The Commission is supposed to provide envelopes, but it's up to the voters to decide if they'll take the envelope. Someone's gonna take it, and somebody else won't want to take the envelope, fold the card, and throw it in. Here's the problem. I spoke to one of the representatives of Law and Justice who came to the State Election Commission to look at these urns, see what they look like, watch draft cards, because I can still say two words about cards, if that's okay. And he said there could be a situation in which someone, for example. Toss in the urn a card with the inscription "Vote for this lot and such." This card's gonna go so far, it's gonna be in plain sight. And then what do I do? Well, you can't open the urns, you can't get it out of her either. Well, there could be individual accidents. I don't think there's gonna be that kind of danger in the case of a book. The greater danger of this nature will be with the vote for president, in the presidential election, because the book is unlikely to open, she will fall through the opening into the urn and probably fall into the bottom somewhere. We are pleased that the legislator accepted this book, because for six months, from November last year to June, we ran a consultation campaign in which we asked many environments, including the environment of people with disabilities, to simulate what the card is better. Well, everyone thought, most thought that a card in the form of a sheet of 1.2 m/1 m was not at all suitable to write something on it. The book was therefore selected. It is good that the legislator has accepted this will of some voters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u271	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Judge, I'd like to ask you a question like this. Today, after meeting with Marshal Karczewski, you told journalists that you cannot criticize everything in this bill. I would therefore like to ask what, apart from the cameras that you have already mentioned, is a good solution to this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u273	I mentioned the husbands of trust, the broadening of the powers of men of trust. That's for sure. Because so far, according to the current rules, men of confidence can only vote at the level of the regional electoral committees. The Code did not provide for them to be able to participate in the elections in district committees or in the State Election Commission. In the elections and in the presidential and parliamentary elections, we as PKW have allowed this to happen. We even issued such non-written, but oral guidelines for district committees, so that they would not oppose the participation of men of confidence in the calculation of votes, checking the minutes. We also allowed law and justice representatives in the State Election Commission and the Kukiz club15 who participated in our work, although basically, as I said, we don't count here, we don't watch the protocols, but they wanted to be there, they wanted to watch it in computers, see what this whole process looks like. We basically provided them with all the documents they wanted. Well, unfortunately, it didn't work out well for us, because we were later criticized at the session of the Sejm Committees, especially from the representatives of the Election Control Movement. Regardless, we did what we had to do. We thought that they should be given the right to participate. Similarly, we gave this right to Kukiz15 even in the second round of voting for President when their candidate had already fallen away. We also thought there was no obstacle to her being present to see what it all looked like. So it's good that the novel already allows husbands to trust all levels, even And we suggested that too. The possibility of such a husband's assistant to trust on the way between the regional commission and the senior commission when the protocol is being carried, so that the trust husband will keep an eye on all the time so that he doesn't press charges that during the transport there someone switched the protocol, because such situations also happen sometimes. Here, the role of men of confidence is certainly unappreciable. It is also a question of the possibility for voters to see the voting protocol. It will be available within 30 days, so it won't be a problem anymore. Until now, some committees didn't know if they could show it, others showed it. Now every voter can come to the polling committee and ask them to show the minutes. I already told you about the book, and the cameras. Except I'm afraid those cameras won't make it to the next election. This is so well-solved that what I know is that in the law relating to self-government, it is said that these cameras are supposed to be shared, that is, they will be used by municipalities, but then they will also be able to use them by election committees. Let's just say it'll reduce the cost somehow. We have always stressed that these are the good changes in this project, in this novel. What else didn't I mention? The court's jurisdiction has been opened as to the division of... This is such a sensitive point. I think it will matter, although perhaps not yet, because the municipalities still divide the municipalities into districts. I believe that the charges that have been brought against these bodies, and the suggestion that they will somehow be biased... Well, I wouldn't really agree with that, because the commune council has between 15 and 45 members depending on the population in the municipality. I can't imagine 15, 25 or 30 people going out suddenly and setting up districts in such a way that they only serve one party, in a situation where these commune councils are made up of representatives of different parties. Some kind of arrangement is definitely going to happen, but it seems to me that this judicial path will be important first and foremost when the commune is divided by the Commissioners in parliamentary elections. I suspect that there may then be a lot of different claims and accusations against Commissioners, probably because of their inexperience. I do not want to say that they will show bad will, however the Commissioners who are not judges can unfortunately be more susceptible to various kinds of suggestions than judges whose nature is independence, independence. So I'm afraid, let's say, some kind of vulnerability to some suggestions or even a willingness to meet the expectations of some party organizations. We've never had that kind of trouble with the commissioners of judges. I'm not saying they're better or worse. This is a matter of lack of experience, lack of knowledge, which may be crucial here. First of all, in the future, this judicial path will be important, because the courts will be able to correct it. If the decision is wrong, unfair and is challenged to the administrative court, the administrative court will be able to review it. And this is a very good move from the designers who have opened this judicial path.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u274	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for all that you have said here today in relation to the correspondence vote. But that's not what my question is about. Namely today's Rzeczpospolita writes about the fact that one comma abolishes restrictions on the financing of electoral campaigns. This text, which is in Rzeczpospolita, is that within the framework of all the amendments that were made, the comma has been shifted in such a way that, in principle, someone can now run an election campaign on my behalf without any financial constraints. I would like to ask you whether you have seen this problem as a State Election Commission and what this will have for your functioning, for the organisation of elections, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u276	I also learned about it only today, just from an article in the Rzeczpospolita. Did the judges hear about this, I don't know, because we're probably not gonna meet at the committee meeting until after Christmas or after New Year's. So I don't know if they realized it. Already before, an article has been removed in the novel of the electoral code. 499, which has Penalized this type of action. It may be feared that there will be some quasi-committees that will then slip out of control of the State Election Commission when it comes to auditing financial statements. There may be such a danger here, but I admit I haven't thought about it yet, because it only fell into my hands this morning, and then I never had a chance to consult someone and talk about it. This was an example, perhaps from one of the Members who said that, in principle, this provision in its unchanged form would lead to the fact that even meetings with an aunt on the names on which a candidate is discussed, which candidate can support and not be regarded as an agitation. It seems to me that this is too far-reaching an opinion, because this is probably about public agitation, which has some effect on more people. If you talk to your uncle or uncle at your aunt's place, it's hard to think of it as an agitation. So this change... I'm more concerned about removing the article. 499. Speaking of which, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna jump right over to the question of the new State Election Commission consisting of only two judges and mostly officials or, say, administrators who will judge the party's finances. I'm not saying they're gonna be party members, but some kind of party affiliation... Well, since they are appointed by the political body of the Sejm, this political element is being transferred to these people. I mean, I'm not saying that they're gonna judge in the wrong way, but for the sake of clarity, it's worth considering another solution. I don't know who would do that. There are proposals that maybe NIK should assess the financial statements in such a situation. Because so far no one has accused the State Election Commission that in a biased or hurting way it has assessed the finances and e.g. It was her decision that she took away... Recently, there have been two cases of deprivation of subsidies, two parties because of literally... Well, there were quite large overruns here, but there were also situations that 100 or 50 PLN had been paid, not passed through the electoral fund, but went directly from the party fund, and unfortunately the State Election Commission had to reject such a report. Fortunately. Because I believe that this provision was too strict, there was no way to measure the amount and responsibility of the party. I think the Party together filed a constitutional complaint before the Court... I apologize to the Supreme Court because this is what the Supreme Court is about, and the Supreme Court has asked the Constitutional Tribunal a legal question which, hopefully, will settle it fairly. 'Cause I don't think there's much rigour here. But it's just that, by the way, it's out of the scope of the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, three questions. Do you share this view that, however, the law in this form violates and violates the article. 62 Constitutions and Art. 39 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? That's first of all...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u279	It's a correspondence vote, it's a liquidation vote, right? Yeah, I... [[There you go.]] I'd be... Maybe one at a time, 'cause I'll forget if there's any more questions... [[Yes, you're welcome.]] I'd go along with it. Well, it's said in art. 62 there is a constitutional electoral right active, and in turn it is said that there is not here constitutional passive law. Okay, the constitution in the article. 62 only talks about who has the right to vote does not talk about who has the right to be elected. But in my opinion, In fact, I think that even the rapporteur, Mr Pęk mentioned this... [[Senator.]] ...because that's also the opinion of some constitutionalists. However, it is not possible to abstract the right to be chosen from this, because this article. 62 somehow indirectly translates into the right to be chosen. Well, whoever wants to vote can see that there's been some kind of restriction. This limitation should take place... any constitutional electoral right may be limited, but by virtue of the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions, where there are indications: State security and others. Here, I think, it doesn't happen, so I would be very much here, so to speak, willing to share these constitutional doubts. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, that was the first question, and I'd like to ask you two more questions. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u280	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u281	Thank you very much. As you see it, Mr President, if this law were to enter into force in this form, what will be the final effect, which will be the worst failure of this law in this form in the post-election situation? Will it be the inability to count the votes, or will it be the delays? And the last question, which is related to this very often discussed subject of correspondence voting. Do you, as the State Election Commission, have any figures on how to adjust the electoral committees as to how it looks? 'Cause there's a lot of trouble with that. And that's why it was even more shameful and unempathetic to propose it, since we know that many electoral committees are not adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, especially motorists, and that committees are placed Of course, it's very reprehensible. In places where a person with mobility disabilities is unable to reach. Is that the data? Because that would also confirm that this opportunity to vote in correspondence is essential and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u282	The second question concerning issues related to the repercussions of this law. Well, I don't want to say that the election isn't going to happen because I don't think you can say that. But there could really be delays, we're still talking about the possibility of destabilizing this process. Indeed, it can be because of some inability, well, certainly. I have to assume some clumsyness, I don't want to do it, but I'm afraid it may be that some Commissioners will not be prepared enough to do all their duties in such a short period of time. Fortunately, they do not have to divide the commune into districts, as one of the senators said here, because that would indeed be a blessing of misfortune. However, I am afraid that they may not be able to meet these obligations in due time, which may result in prolonged counting of votes or extension of the results. I'll tell you one more thing. Mr. Senator didn't ask, but I think about it. I mean, what kind of sound it might have on the outside. I do not think in a political way, in such a way that I assume that the introduction of these Commissioners, not judges, is intended to serve some hidden purpose. I'm far from it. But I'm afraid In fact, such voices come to me that public reception, external reception can be such... Because that's what some voters argue, they think: "There were judges, and in 2015 these elections were held, and since they are now being removed, non-judges are being introduced, why? There must be a purpose. So there's all kinds of guesses going around. As I say, I'm far from it, I don't want to think like that, but people who think rationally, voters who are interested in the electoral process and who care about the election, the good, honest outcome, can reason that way. And the third question. I'm not in a position to give full information about the committee, but I know that I'm sure... Besides, the Ombudsman reminds us every year, or even a few times a year, and tells us how many electoral committees are not prepared to accept people with disabilities. This has improved considerably, because we also get information that doors are expanding, thresholds are removed, or they are very lowered so that wheelchairs can enter. However, there are still some premises that are not adapted, e.g. there are stairs, and there is no driveway, which means there are premises so located that it is actually difficult to provide comfort for the disabled. Some of these places are. But I admit I didn't think that the senator would ask me that question, so I can't give up the numbers. [[I'll check it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u283	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u284	I'd like to ask you a question, but I don't think that's what you just said. How many protests and how many electoral forgeries have been found so far in the case of correspondence voting, I would like you to answer that question. That's the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u285	I do not know such a number, I can almost certainly say that there were no protests related specifically to voting disabled people. So we didn't come across such protests. That I can almost certainly convey. [[What about the correspondence vote at all?]] No. Maybe I should have said otherwise. It's a correspondence vote. I do not divide this into full-time and disabled people, because in Parliament elections everyone can actually vote like this. We haven't recorded such things here. And I'll admit that. As for 2014, this critical year, for a thousand and five hundred with pennies of protests, fifty pairs were included. Here we differ with the Senator about numbers, but these are small differences, probably from different sources. But I didn't find it there either, and we didn't find any data showing that in any court order there was a specific situation related to correspondence elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u286	And I'm gonna ask one more question real quick. The biggest Polish ailment, one of the biggest elections-related issues is poor turnout. I would like to ask, because here we have been leaning on the various solutions that we are criticizing today, and some think that some people are right... Tell me if you find anything in this project that would actually improve attendance. Because I've spent my whole life wondering why there were election announcements behind the communes everywhere, there were arrows indicating the way to the election boards, there was information everywhere, etc., etc., and now it's not there, and people are less and less going to the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u287	I also have a question for the senator: is it warmer? [[Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Great. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u288	I'll admit that this question is a little bit of a pebble in our backyard, although we're also trying to make sure that... Besides, one of our responsibilities as the State Election Commission is to carry out such awareness-raising, educational activities among citizens. Well, we're trying to do it. Like I said, this six-month election card thing... By the way, we also talked to the voters, but we nine judges plus the employees of the National Election Office couldn't... From what I remember, it's about 1,500 people. Yes, Mrs. Spokesman? They took part in this campaign of ours... [[Chief Specialist at the Press Office of the State Election Commission Anna Godzwon: 13 thousand.]] Sorry, 13 grand. Well, it's a number to brag about. Besides, the delegations, and the commissioners, they did the same thing. She contained elements of education as a rule of election etc. Of course, we want to do it and the closer we get... Soon we want to start doing this propaganda action again, awareness-raising action. Actually, we do it all the time. Perhaps it is not visible, or perhaps not effective, so we will try to make this effect better. I'll admit, as I'm watching... Perhaps the impression is that you can't find the committee, because unfortunately they've been changing locations a bit lately. That's the problem. I had such a problem myself, and the committee suddenly found itself in another place, which I was not aware of. This is certainly the role of Commissioners and now of this whole corps of electoral officials. It's going to be about 5,000 people or more, because we have 2.5. A thousand municipalities, and there must be electoral officials in every one of them, as the bill says. Officials, so it'll be at least 5,000 people. I think that part of this obligation will be able to take over, which is included in the bill. I think there's probably going to be an increase in the level of information for voters. I hope... [[I'm sorry, I'm just gonna make a point. With all due respect, sir, from the election election, I see that there are fewer announcements, fewer posters telling us about the election. There are more and more young people who don't watch TV, etc., are out of the loop. Some people just don't know there's an election, or they know there's an election, but they don't remember this Sunday. Well, yes, sir.]] I agree, but I don't think they actually knew... I think when there's an election, they know. Unfortunately, we can only regret the fact that there are few people voting. We as the State Election Commission, as the National Election Office, have already been doing this action among young people for the second year, and we are organising a competition for them, which, moreover, is of great interest. There's a lot more candidates this year, maybe a few thousand candidates... They go through the different stages of this competition. Youth education is an important task. I remember that last year this action was very successful and many schools from all over Poland were eager to take part in it. It's also some kind of posture-forming element. As I say, it is regrettable that adults, those who are 18 years old and can vote... But it's not about the current election. Unfortunately, it's been going on for years. This dislike... I don't know if dislike of election or disregard for election is our problem. I must say that despite various efforts not only from the electoral authorities but also from the various institutions, the level of attendance is unfortunately unchanged. I don't know, maybe you'd have to think about what to do about it. Such ad hoc measures, particularly intensified before the elections, do not seem to have a very positive effect. It must be more of an action that lasts all the time. I think other organs should be involved in this, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u289	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, Judge, thank you very much for all that you have said not only in our debate today but also in public space on the new electoral code. I have a specific question related to this code, namely the amendment concerning the State Election Commission. As you know, the parliamentary majority wants 7 of the 9 members elected by the Sejm. Until now, as I recall, three members were elected by the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. I recall your statement by the Undersecretary of State at the office of the President, Ms Anna Surówki-Pasek, who, in the context of the National Judicial Council, spoke of the fact that it is good that the National Judicial Council elects the Sejm because the legitimacy of these elected representatives will be stronger, which is connected with the fact that the Members are elected by the sovereign The nation. I would like to ask you if you share this view in the context of this reform of the State Election Commission. Isn't there a kind of paradox here? For, in my opinion, those whom we will choose on the basis of the amended law are the mayors, mayors and presidents, but also representatives of various councils, starting from the commune, through the district, and ending in the Seyms with a much stronger social mandate, because as we examine the turnout, it will turn out that participation in the elections of Poles who choose the mayors, mayors and presidents is much greater than for those who cook for them this fate. just as part of this electoral ordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u291	As I have already said, I can regret here as a judge and as a member of the PKW, which will soon be gone, in two years' time when it will be changed. Well, it seemed to me, and it seems to me all the time, that the judges as the third power not politically involved are a guarantee for the purity, transparency of elections. I do not, of course, diminish the skills, knowledge of other people, because in the new State Election Commission there will be notaries, lawyers. I don't know if they're gonna be eager to do that, to tell you the truth, for example, because I'm sorry about the property issues. However, a notary or a lawyer will certainly be able to earn more money than as a member of the State Election Commission, unless, say, an idea runs it, he wants to try his own strength here. But I don't think it's such a common urge to do that. So it's a little bit of a force shift on a principle, as you say. One of the Members used this phrase at the committee meeting or at the session of the Sejm That it will be a judicial and parliamentary system. Yeah, you can make that. I don't really agree with that, because I don't see good reasons, change for change is not enough. That's where I think it's gonna be. Well, you can blame me for not being objective, because I'm a judge myself, and I'm on the State Election Commission for three years, but I can assure you that this isn't a light job, especially when they come... We oversee, above all, these most important elections, i.e. presidential, parliamentary, European and local elections, but we are also dealing with local elections. After all, every day in the whole of Poland, in many municipalities there are additional elections or referendums and some supervision over them, although indirect, we exercise. So I'd be lying if I said we weren't doing anything. As I say, I can be accused of not being objective here, but I think I'm trying to look at it so clearly and objectively, and I think this system might still have been able to hold on. I think he was defending himself. He defended himself in 2015. In 2014, not so much did the system itself defend itself, but the technology did not defend itself, that's what you might call it. The system itself defended itself. [[I'm here, now I'm...]] [[Mr. Senator, please...]] The system defended itself, in 2015 also... [[If the marshal isn't responding, then...]] All I can say here is regret, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You said such a sentence, which I have noted, that this law undermines the article. 2nd Constitution, which speaks of a democratic state of law. And you said it was going to be that a government body incapacitated the electoral authority, incapacitated. I would like to know what you mean, Mr President, by impersonalisation, because this is a word that is strong, firm and unambiguous. What is this insubordination?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u294	I'll get back to the senator's first sentence. Well, I didn't mean to stress that the entire law violates the article. Two, because I can't say that, but I can see that there's a contradiction with the article. 2 as regards the issue of the appointment of Commissioners to a lesser extent, but above all the appointment of the National Election Office. As I said, this is our right hand, so we can't be imposed on the person who is to be the head of the National Election Office, the body with which we cooperate, which is the only one for us to say, the support, the only support. We're the only ones with the National Election Office... This is 400 employees, of which in Warsaw, there are about 40 in the headquarters, and the rest are in delegations all over Poland, where there are commissioners. It is an office that has performed excellently with all electoral and referendum actions. If there's a whole new person coming now that we can't control... Well, of course, you can say that you choose from three. But it's not a free choice. Well, we're gonna be kind of forced to choose one of these three people, although maybe none of them are gonna work for us. It may happen that we'll find that Mr. X has no experience, Mrs. Y doesn't know about it, and Mr. Z doesn't have the right qualifications for it. And we're really gonna be afraid of putting a person at the head of the office where we're gonna know in advance that she's not gonna work out and that she's not gonna make those choices. I repeat: if this had been happening a year ago, perhaps we would not have been alarming as we are now, because we would have thought that during these two years or there 1,5 years there would have been a chance that this person would have learned with our help that we would somehow be working together. But six months or six or seven months before the election, that's the problem. And there's also a question of appealing this person, which we can't actually cancel. The recipe is so formulated that we can't cancel it if we think it's completely unfit. Here on our side there will be no malice or any biased attempts to subdue this person. We would like to conduct these elections in cooperation with the National Election Office, which would work as before... If this possibility is not possible and there will also be no possibility of removing this person and calling a new one, which will meet our expectations, substantively of course... That's why I'm talking about impersonalization. Well, it's maybe not complete, but partial, let's say, incapacitation of us, because of course we're going to be able to do something here, we're going to have a narrow choice, but we're not going to have what we have right now. Now we have a free hand and that's how it's supposed to be. The current president, your head of the national office, for six months, was by us, so to speak, controlled. We've been looking at her for six months. She's been working as a p.o. And it was only after six months that we decided that maybe, of course... that he was qualified to be appointed by us, by the state commission, as head of the national office. So that it wasn't that we immediately... Well, so far she has been a deputy to the former head of the national office, who resigned, left with the State Election Commission in 2014. Therefore, we felt that if it met these requirements for six months, there was no need to look for another person. We assumed if it didn't work out, we'd call it off because we still have the freedom. We can do this thing overnight until the new bill comes into force. Because the new law will bind our hands unfortunately, and in this I will see some of our partial impropriety. [[Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u295	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u296	Judge, two questions. The first concerns electoral officials. Well, I'd ask you to perhaps dispel my doubts... If the electoral officials who are to support Commissioners and supervise the actions of the municipalities with which the Commissioner will sign the agreement will be outside this municipality 'Cause they have to be outside this community, they can't even be on the electoral list, can they? They won't really have to have any experience... Because there's a catalog of requirements and experience they don't have to have. Don't you think, along with all the other difficulties you've been talking about, it's gonna be like this, another nail to... well, there could be a really serious slip or there's gonna be delays in preparing literally. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Well, it can happen...]] Let me ask you a second question right away. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Okay.]] Judge, to be honest, I'm very concerned about the proposal to delete the article. 499. I agree with the Ombudsman's view that the deletion of this objection: who, in connection with the elections, without the written consent of the electoral representative carries out an electoral agitation, is subject to a fine or detention penalty, in fact opens such a gate that outsiders, entities, institutions can on their own, i.e. without any written consent of the proxy, conduct a campaign for someone, carry out an agitation, as defined in the revised article. 105, carry out an agitation, so to speak, full steam, using all possible media. And there won't actually be any way to punish them. Not to mention, actually, the so-called. The electoral limit will be called into question because it will be possible to use, I don't know, a friendly radio, a friendly organization, etc., which will run a campaign without formal authorisation, actually the second and third largest limit. And there's nothing you can do about it. At least that's how I read it. Do you share these concerns?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u297	I already mentioned this when I answered the question of Senator Libicki. I don't think I remember him anymore. Indeed, these concerns can be shared since this provision has already been deleted in the amended law. As the senator says, I hope it won't be, but it can't be ruled out that there will be such different types of bodies, let's say they will run such a quasi-campania. Above all, this will result in the remaining funds outside the control of the State Election Commission, and this problem may arise here. Yeah, that's what I'm afraid of. We were also protesting at some point against the liquidation of this article or commenting on it. I'll admit it's a little disturbing, because here you somehow go beyond the normal laws of the path, and you can give a free hand to different kinds of bodies, some bodies that want this kind of quasi-campania, out of control, to drive. So that's what we're really afraid of here. At the committee meeting we discussed this issue, but, well, the legislator decided to delete this provision. [[What about the civil servants?]] It's a civil servant case. Exactly. Officials, as if under the responsibility of the Commissioners, become their apparatus, the apparatus of the Commissioners. It's big, so to speak, an army, 5,000 or over 5,000 people, because it might be two to three officials in the municipality, probably depending on the area, depending on the size of the municipality. So this, of course... Well, when new people come, you have to give them time to prepare, so I wouldn't have any charges here. That these officials are being brought in. Indeed, they can be helpful, although so far the National Election Office through its delegations has ensured the proper conduct of the elections here. As I say, in 2015, no one charged the delegations or the staff of the delegations that any legislation had infringed here. Yeah, but the legislator thought that this army of officials, this corps, had to be increased. I don't know either, because the rules are pretty vague... I understand that they will be appointed for a seven-year term, but they will activate themselves, so to speak, only at the time of the election, which is just before the election, during the election and after the election, and then they will be paid. Although there are also such voices that perhaps they will receive a double salary, because where they work, and also within this corps of officials. I don't know, I don't know. Anyway, for me. And in general for elections, it is important to make choices about how well they will be able to do, how well they will work in the forthcoming elections. I hope you're still in this election... Because there are no decommissioned delegations of the National Election Office, perhaps there will only be new people, which may also cause problems. If these officials are left, they'll probably be working with this group of officials, with this election corps, maybe they'll be preparing them a little bit here. Well, I hope so. But you can be concerned that this 5,000th army of people may actually be unprepared. I also understand the intentions of the legislator, who wants these people not to live in a given community, so that they are not somehow connected. Well, that's probably gonna cause some perturbation, too, 'cause you gotta give them a place to live. They're gonna live somewhere else, and they're gonna have to be taken down for election time, so they have to be put somewhere, and that's the cost, it's a matter of finding a place. Yeah, but that's technical. I think that the legislator, when preparing this provision, took this into account, because the costs of elections will increase again. But if I took that into account, I wouldn't charge such a special charge, I wouldn't, except for the fear that there was really no preparation in such a short period before the election. This is the most important thing for me here. There's not much time left for the election, and there's an army of new people coming, so it might be here, so to speak, a narrow throat. [[All the more reason why they're supposed to be driving...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u298	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My friend tells me that Mr. Augustine the senator said four minutes 17 seconds. I understand Mr. Marshal will be as understanding as you are to me. Judge, I'd like to get back to 2014, because you're trying to criticize these projects, this bill. I think that as it is, it just can't be and every bill is better... well, than what happened in our country in previous years. Speaking of fake, twisted elections... We can use different words here, they'll all be adequate for what was... You were talking about law enforcement, about the fact that you, as the State Election Commission, didn't have the signals that the police should take care of it, etc., etc. Judge, 23,88%. The country-wide support had PSL. Even the platform got scared back then. There's a lot of articles about it. Where were you then, ladies and gentlemen? In Austria, there was a similar situation, although perhaps not as drastic as ours. The presidential elections were repeated there. Where was our Supreme Court, Judge? It's a scandal, isn't it? If I go to the elections and vote, then I must be sure that my vote will be well counted because it affects my personal and professional life, my country's life. Election is a sacred thing. Me by 2014. Maybe I'm too well-mannered. I never thought elections could be faked, but 2014 was the perfect example. That is why this law should not be criticised. It may be possible to change some of its records. No one like the Party of Law and Justice cares about a fair election. In my opinion, the presidential elections in which Mr Komorowski and Prime Minister Kaczyński competed could also be forged, Judge. After 2014 I have reason to believe that because these elections were unfair. [[And between Duda and Komorowski?]] When you go on your agenda on the subject of the 2014 elections, then, Judge... [[Mr. Senator, put a question mark on it.]] I'm asking. How do you respond to the situation... Which constitutional paragraphs were broken in 2014? You say art. 2 constitutions. Yeah, yeah, I don't think so. Which constitutional record was broken in 2014? It was clear to the eye that the election was unfair. You don't need law enforcement for that. Up to 23.8% , Judge... Was that what you needed law enforcement to do? [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u300	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[Just substantively, specifically, Judge, because you're spreading it all around.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u301	I'm speaking in substance all the time, Mr. Senator. I hope I'm speaking in substance. The senator asks me where, as the State Election Commission... [[And the Supreme Court.]] ...we were in 2014, and you're making the same mistake that the spokesperson of the club made, accusing me that in 2014 I didn't alarm or go to court. In 2014, I was not a member of the State Election Commission. All of our National Election Commission appeared in 2014, but not until December. We were called on December 4th. [[But you answer anyway...]] I was elected president on December 9th. Where was the Supreme Court? The Supreme Court was where it was supposed to be. He was looking at protests. The senator's asking me if the naked eye couldn't be seen forgery. I confess I'm not judging with my naked eye whether or not a crime has been committed. I already said I need proof. Where was the Constitution broken in 2014? It wasn't broken anywhere, Senator. It seems to me that I have clearly and substantively explained how I see this situation. This is a question of the wrong IT system, as well as That's what I suspect. The question of incorrect identification of the booklet, because the contents were on the front page and the PSL party was the first. I suspect that many have suggested and voted for this party. I repeat: all I can talk about is what I saw in the documents, in court decisions. None of the judgments gave me any reason to conclude that the elections had been falsified. The senator may disagree with me, but I won't change my mind. I need evidence, and there's no evidence here. [[No, I don't...]] Of course, the senator may have such suspicions. I can't stop anyone... [[I'm sure. These aren't suspicions.]] If the senator's sure, I'm sorry. I don't even have suspicions, and I'm even more sure, because I repeat the evidence. There's no evidence here. No one has ever presented such evidence. That's all I can say. I'm sure that won't satisfy the senator, but I can't give you any other answer. You asked about the Supreme Court and other organs. The Supreme Court was where it was. I don't know if you can tell the Supreme Court that he's given some false, false judgment... [[It's sad what you say, Judge. Sad.]] Maybe sad. I'm telling you the way I see it. I'm telling you how it really was. I'm judging this case from a legal point of view, strictly legal. I'm afraid I won't satisfy you. I'm very sorry, but I can't tell you the truth, since the truth is as I put it... [[: PSL was 23%. Yes?]] Please? [[I'm saying PSL was 23%...]] What evidence, in your opinion, is there that it had less or no? [[Elections should be repeated, Judge.]] But it wasn't up to me. It was up to the court. I don't decide to repeat the election. [[Which court?]] From the Supreme Court. This would have been the case if the Supreme Court had annulled the elections, but had not annulled them. I don't know what grounds you have for accusing the judges who ruled at the time... The validity of the election is decided by the full-time labour office... the district court and the appeal court, I'm sorry. It was a self-government election. Perhaps some court has given an annulment order. I'm sure they were. But it can't be translated into the whole election, it can't be generalized. I'm not gonna take that argument. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u302	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Judge! The light of peace goes out slowly, so we'll talk more honestly. I quote: President Wojciech Hermeliński of the PKW in TVN24 expressed his opinion that if he fails to convince Members of the PKW on changes in the electoral code, it would probably be necessary to seriously consider leaving. Mr President, I understand this as a threat of resignation, and I thought that the PKW, and the legislators, should depend on the next elections, i.e. local elections, being conducted honestly, honestly, as the procedure requires. Judge, will resigning to the PKW in the pre-election period help with a fair, clear and swift election process, or will it prevent it? I'm asking because I don't know if we're supposed to be writing corrections now in case the PKW gets derailed and maybe resign. Do procedures that end at the PKW level still have to close any organ outside the PKW? If you resign, someone will have to do your job. Am I right? [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Well, it will be...]] Yeah, I guess it's okay. Very good. So please reassure us and the public and tell us that resigning is out of the question. You'll stay where you're supposed to stay. [[Or let them quit now.]] I didn't say that. That's another line. You said that it would be better if the camera, I called it, for the election, the election, consisted of a third power, because this power is not politically involved. Judge, I've been watching the news lately, and I see the political commitment of the third power all the time. So, what the demonstration shows is representatives, and very prominent, third power. I'm not talking about the anonymous people who are there too, the judges of the district courts. I am talking about the representatives of the courts who are here in Warsaw. I do not agree with you, Judge, Mr President, that the current third power, as represented, is not politically involved. Perhaps, among others. This forced the legislator to leave the circle of representatives of the third power as a circle of those who would be in the election apparatus. Don't you think that's the right thing to do when you see such political commitment and such intensity of commitment? One last thing. I agree with you that you are not personally responsible for what happened in 2014. It's clear. You came in December, and you probably had nothing to do with all this. However, I think it was up to you to assess the matter and propose solutions. First question. I'm sure it's CWB. Not in PKW, because it was not the PKW responsible for IT services of elections, it was the CWB There was someone responsible for computerizing the election. Who was that person? Was this person fired or promoted? That's the first question. Second question... [[I think that's the third one.]] Okay, we're done here. To be continued. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: I will start from the end...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u304	I just want to reassure Senator Włosowicz that the light hasn't disappeared permanently. In a moment, after a brief rescue action, the light of peace will return to the courtroom of our deliberations. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u305	I'll start at the end. This is a technical issue. How do you know? Although perhaps not, that's why I'm talking about it. Criminal proceedings are ongoing against the person who was involved in computer science. It was the head of IT, who also made a deal with this company, which unfortunately prepared this unfortunate program. As far as I know, criminal proceedings are ongoing. Besides, there's also a dispute, probably not at the judicial stage yet. Our legal counsel is still negotiating with this company. It's about civil damages. So that this case isn't over yet, but of course it hasn't been left unanswered. Now for the first question. The question of resignation. I didn't tell you if I'd resign. That was the answer to the journalist's question, whether I'm considering it. Of course, I can't say I'm not considering it. I'm just talking about myself, I'm not talking about the other judges, because if we have to make any decision, we're gonna have to do it collegially. For me, there's this kind of thing. We've always wanted an election... In 2015, we held elections and referendums, we held them, I hope, in a fair way, and there were no allegations of any lack of integrity, but the rules at that time gave us the guarantee of having them peacefully carried out in cooperation with those bodies that should cooperate with us in order to carry out the elections efficiently, fairly and transparently. I am now saying, and it is not just me, but our entire State Election Commission, that the law that has been passed, on which the senators are sitting, does not guarantee us, first of all, because of these two things: Commissioners and the National Election Office. We're afraid it might lead to a disorder, a destabilization of the election. We are therefore afraid that we will not be able to make these choices as we wish. It doesn't satisfy us to make choices on the basis that it's gonna be okay. We want the guarantee that the electoral code is now giving us. As I say, in 2015, we proved that these rules give us a chance to make choices like this. The rules that have been amended, in my opinion, do not guarantee such an opportunity. That's what we're talking about. I think it would be unfair to the voters, also to the state, to the legislator, if we said that everything would be okay, somehow it would be there, and then it wouldn't be there. That's why it's our duty... [[It will be better than it was in 2014.]] Can I finish, Mr. Senator? However, it was our duty to be prejudiced, and that is why we have even warned so loudly what shortcomings we see in this procedure. That's the explanation. That's how we do it. I repeat, we haven't made a decision, we're waiting for the final decision. Then we will convene a meeting of the State Election Commission and decide what we should do next. There was another one, but I don't remember... [[Yeah, there was another question about the transition from the judge's corps, so I'd call it the official corps when it comes to the election.]] Yes, of course, because the senator has this kind of opinion that the entire judicial community is involved in politics. I don't share that view. First, judges have the right to express their views on matters relating to justice. Of course they have to do it... [[Duty.]] ...in the way he's worthy of being a judge. So obviously, in my opinion, some participation in political demonstrations is not an option. But if, in a clear and open way, they express their views, just as I do... to make it clear, you know, in my opinion, that the Act on the National Courts Council and the Supreme Court are not in line with the Constitution, they violate the article. 7 constitutions. In this connection I say this, but do not engage in any meetings or various manifestations, for example because I am the head of the PKW, i.e. this state element must stop me from doing so. But I'm expressing my opinion. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal Judges Act gives us the right to express ourselves directly in public matters, and this is certainly a public matter. So if it's done in a way that's not ostentatious... [[applause]] ...then I think the judge can do it, even it's his duty to protest when he thinks the justice system is malfunctioning for reasons that lie with the legislator or with any other. So I wouldn't extend that negative view so widely. As far as the commissioners' judges are concerned, it's never been... After all, the Minister of Justice recommends them to us, so he will not recommend a person who, in some way or once, has embezzled the principle of judicial independence. There have never been any problems, all the Commissioners we have appointed have performed their duties exemplaryly. Besides, I think that as a member of the PKW... The senator himself said that you have no objection to the previous committee either. As a result, it can be said with complete peace that when it comes to this judicial body that works in the electoral bodies, it is not possible to accuse them of being politicized or of using statements which would involve misrepresentation of the principle of judicial independence. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u306	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u307	Mr President said that I had no objections to the previous committee. I have reservations, but not about the IT system. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Well, yes, I understand, of course.]] This committee simply did not know it, it reached the end of its competence in this area. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: We don't know each other... Neither do we.]] If you don't mind... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski:...each of us...]] Mr President, I have reservations about the fact that she preferred electoral books, which unfortunately resulted in an increased number of errors and this addition of votes for PSL. It's not much that she preferred it, it's in her explanations, saying that a card and a ballot is, if you say it all the time, pretty much the same, distinguishing these two concepts carelessly... The effect was that the average voter, and explanations must be written for the average voter, not for the lawyer, was simply misled by the PKW messages, unfortunately. Yes, sir. And that's what I'm complaining about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u308	In fact, that manual that was on that book was pretty unhappy... Also placing PSL in the first place Well, that's how he drew it. And on the front page, it really caused confusion. We've already learned from this mistake and now the card... It is consistent with what is included in the novel: on the front page there will be only information, on the other page there will be a table of contents, and only on the third page will there be the first lot drawn. We hope that thanks to this new shape, thanks to our educational campaign, the number of unimportant votes will significantly decrease, we hope. Besides, the form of the book was introduced by the legislator after looking at our proposal. I know that Mr Schreiber, I am talking about the older Mr Schreiber, who was watching in the State Election Commission and these transparent urns, and the books, and the sheets, clearly said that this sheet is unacceptable because of its size, so he was rather leaning towards the book. And you can see that he has convinced the rapporteurs or the designers to enter this book.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u309	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Please stick to the time limit, which is 60 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I only regret the fact that Senator Dobrzyński asked a question for 4 minutes, Senator Czerwiński for 6 minutes, little of that, had a dialogue with the Commissioner, and whenever I ask a question, Mr Marshal reminds himself of the rules of procedure and the rules of questioning. Thank you very much for this, Mr. Marshal. [[It's been 20 seconds, Mr. Senator.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm glad, I'll sign up... We are debating until 11:00 p.m., Mr. Marshal, with great satisfaction I will sign up to ask further questions. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Judge! Let me ask you a question. As you have heard, law and justice colleagues suggest that elections in 2014 were falsified. However, we did not hear such allegations about the 2015 elections. I presume those regulations which the parliamentary majority proposes in the electoral code, such as what I have already asked, i.e. the change in the choice of representatives of the State Election Commission, the National Election Office you mentioned, the appointment of Commissioners, but also the withdrawal from the JOWs or the change of the boundaries of the electoral districts In the context of the agglomeration law in Warsaw, all this, as I understand it, will lead to the fact that elections in Poland will not be falsified. Here's the question mark. As I understand it, everything will fall under the jurisdiction of the current authority, all elections will be won by the PiS and thus will not be falsified. Thank you very much. [[I mean, do you...]] Yeah, well, aren't they gonna be faked... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Is this a question for me, or...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u311	Mr President, you do not have to answer such questions. Senator Swede. [[What about me? Write me down, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u312	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, as far as my first question is concerned, you have already partially answered it because I wanted to ask you about the 2014 local elections and this unfortunate book, on which the political party of PSL was on the first page. We know how it ended. There were also no electoral instructions and many voters marked these crosses on practically every page. I know, because I've been working with somebody who's been involved in the procedure. And second question. I would like to ask you about the abolition of the two-day elections. In 2011, the Constitutional Tribunal declared two-day elections in respect of elections to the Sejm, the Senate and the President incompatible with the Constitution. In this situation, there is inconsistencies in the electoral code, since it allows two-day elections where there are no clear provisions in the Constitution. The project applicants have decided to remove this inconsistency and have taken into account that the fact that elections are held within 2 days increases the risk of irregularities, fraud and counterfeiting. I would like to ask you how you feel about the abolition of the two-day elections and this incoherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u313	I mean, I see it from the side... You're talking about the 2011 Senator's judgment in case K 4/11, I think that was the signature of the judgment. It was a judgment delivered by the Court in full. I was in this composition, too, and I remember the argument, and it is, of course, included in the explanatory memorandum. The Court found that, since the Constitution says that elections take place on a day off from work, in this situation it would be an option beyond that strictly the wording of the Constitution. He therefore considered that there should be only one day. So unless there's a change of constitution, that's probably how it's going to continue to evolve. So it was a substantive argument such a strict constitutional. Anyway, I remember there were a few separate sentences. Judge Wronkowska and I believe there are other people, three or four... There was a separate sentence, however, that it could not be judged in this way, so narrowed down. 'Cause, of course, the two-day election... After all, they are in European countries. I think they would probably, as with the accession referendum, raise... Perhaps that would be one of the methods. That's what Senator Zdrojewska asked. I'm going to raise my attendance. If this were to be spread over two days, perhaps this turnout would be higher. But with the current constitution, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do here. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u314	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u315	Thank you very much. Judge, I have a question. I'll quote the article. 11 and added §4 in the form of "No choice in the election of the mayor in a given municipality shall be granted to a person who has previously been elected twice as a mayor in that municipality in elections ordered under Article. 474 §1. My question is, is this entry sharp enough? Because, as we know, Law and Justice have withdrawn from the two-channel backwards. But is this recipe sharp enough to believe these very announcements that there will be no two-channel backwards, that we will not take into account the current term of office of the mayors, mayors and presidents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u316	To be honest, I'd rather not have you guys based on my view, because I'm going to say what I said at first. In terms of substance, they are less important here from the point of view of the State Election Commission. I don't want it to sound bad or it looks like we're ignoring it. But let's say, will there be JOWs, will there be a proportional vote, it doesn't matter from the point of view of the speed of conduct for us. After all, the Senate elections are majority elections, and that doesn't make it any longer. And here... I read the first version. She was really there for me. It's not convincing. This one's maybe a little better. Another thing is that I'm probably going to be criticized by the senators, too, because I think there are doubts at all to limit my term of office. After all, the voter can say this: but I would like to vote for this Kowalski for the third time. The Constitution does not say that there can be only two terms or three terms or one term. They're in the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and The 3 that I referred to, these conditions, when this constitutional right can be limited. I do not find in these premises precisely this reason to limit my term of office. So that's what I think. I know there's a few opinions like that. I know that Judge Stępień, who has a lot of experience in the field of local government issues, also makes such an opinion. I don't know... I don't really want to speak here, but I have this doubt. This recipe is better, but I'd have to take another look at it. I haven't thought this through. Yeah, I'm sorry, but I'm not 100% satisfied. The senator's curiosity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u317	Thank you very much, Judge. I think it will, however, affect the electoral process, because there will probably be different interpretations and questions as to whether a person is actually running or not. Depending on what this interpretation is going to be. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u318	That would be the worst thing if there were situations of this kind that could result in, I don't know, electoral protests. And if the court were to take these protests into account, and if, yet, I don't know, some constitutional complaint went to the Court... That would be a problem, that would actually complicate things. It would be good to avoid it. Maybe this recipe needs to be looked at, but I don't know if there's a chance yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u319	Second doubt related to this provision I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Maybe I'll quote it again, so quickly: there's no right of choice in the election of the mayor in a given municipality a person who's been previously twice in the same municipality... I understand that if I run for the third time, but in the next one, there's no doubt about it. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u320	From this one could conclude that this obstacle is no longer here. You could say that. It's a little artificial, isn't it? [[Exactly.]] But if that's what the legislator said... But, yeah, that's a pretty good idea. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u321	Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u322	Mr President, I would also like to ask you about this term of office. I would like to vote consciously, and I am still concerned about the issue of this third term. I didn't get an answer from the rapporteur, so maybe you can let me make my point. Does the PKW examine how many appeals are made regarding the mayors, mayors, presidents and does it have any information as to whether these appeals or abuses are affected by the term of office? It's about whether there's a pattern here. Is the number of appeals increasing and is there more appeal against the first term of office or the second or third? By the way, I see that I have half a minute to go on with Senator Dobrzyński's statement. He's not here... I think that a few more generations of Poles will wonder how it happened that the Senators and PiS Members were the first in Europe to put the country under sanctions and to adopt 13 defective laws, which will also have an impact on local elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u323	There's no formula for asking questions to other senators. I ask the President to answer the questions he has asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u324	As for the first question, of course we have the data... I don't have them now because I didn't know the senator was gonna ask me that. Of course, the National Election Commission does not directly supervise such elections, but the Commissioners and our delegations do so. I'm sure we can download that data. I'll admit that without knowing this data, I can't answer the question in detail. But please, I can get ready at any time and reply to you by e-mail or any other way. [[Can I get a written answer?]] Yes, of course. We'll prep it. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u325	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have the following question for you more as a lawyer than as a President of the State Election Commission. What do you think of the procedure in which some parliamentary majority brings forward the bill and then the same majority The same people who are the authors and signatories of this project Is there 100 amendments to it? How would you describe this legislative process as a lawyer? You've used the word "sloppy" a few times. Would we use such a situation to describe it? How would you describe it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u327	Well, I used the word "bummer" about that one rule because he's really so illegible... He violates the principle of correct legislation provided for in Article. Two... what you're talking about isn't exactly an exception. Now that we're talking about the electoral code, let me tell you, I remember how the electoral code was adopted. In January 2011 it was I guess the event, because it was adopted unanimously and unanimously, there was no vote of objection, and then during the vacathio legis period, which was quite long, because it lasted for probably six months or longer... Or maybe a year, I don't know, about seven or eight months. During this vacatio legis 7 amendments to the electoral code were tabled during the vacatio legis. I don't think that's right. Another point is that the Constitutional Tribunal has unfortunately contributed somewhat to this. I remember our decisions... I was actually opposed to this kind of blindness to this kind of procedure, such a very hastening, related to this kind of reporting of amendments. It was the Court that criticised such a situation when, so to speak, a case was accidentally introduced at the Senate meeting which did not go through the whole procedure and which extended the substantive scope of the contested law. So it was the Court that branded it. But when it comes to speed... about adding amendments at the stage of the proceedings before the Sejm's work, the Court has turned a little bit of a blind eye to this. So maybe it also somehow dared Members to say so. Well, I wouldn't call it sloppy, but it's... I don't think that procedure should happen after all. I remember, because I was at a committee meeting on this matter a few days ago, that these amendments were not tabled there. I was hoping there was gonna be a discussion forum, and I regretted it, because unfortunately there wasn't. Well, that's what happened. I don't know what the rule is, I hope it's not. I don't follow it closely, but I don't think it's a rule, anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u329	Judge, tell me: when was the judicial system introduced?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u330	In 1990, when for the first time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u331	And how did you... Why was the judge model introduced in 1990? I will not guide you, but please tell me: did this happen because of previous experiences?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u332	Yeah, no doubt. After all, this kind of justification was kind of officially published. Until 1989, there was a State Election Commission composed of representatives of the party, from the right to the left, and it was appointed by the Council of State, as I recall, or by the Marshal of the Sejm... I can't remember exactly. And then it's gone. [[By the Council of State.]] By the Council of State, that's right. And then it's gone. After all, in 2016 we celebrated the 25th anniversary of free electoral law, that's what you can call it, i.e.... Excuse me, for the first time in 1991, this permanent State Election Commission was established, consisting of 9 judges. And the justification was obvious: the idea was to leave the system before 1989, when the state administration... Well, of course you can't compare I'm far from that kind of comparison at all. The current state administration with the then, which was a mere communist oppressor. So it was completely different. That's why they wanted to leave, and this judicial system was introduced, which, as I said, the Venice Commission highly praised as such a model system for all countries of new or reborn democracy. So that's the reason for the change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to go back to the cost of running the local elections. Could you tell the president what the cost of these previous, recent local elections was? And how do you estimate what the cost could be now if these 2 committees were introduced in each circuit and, therefore, there would be some other additional costs? Is this going to be a significant increase in costs compared to the cost of previous elections? And is this amount already included in the state budget for the following year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u335	Well, the growth will, unfortunately, be. I don't want to scare you here, but at least that's what the calculations made by the National Election Office are based on this original project, according to which 400 Commissioners were to be introduced, now there are 100 of them, so that this data will probably decrease slightly. But already in 2014 it was the amount of PLN 238 million, so much at that time cost elections to local authorities. Now, as it's calculated here, it's going to cost a little over 500 million zlotys, which is... [[Twice as much.]] ...it's actually going to increase... [[That's the other one.]] ...less than twice. In addition, this raise consists of the following... Well, the other election committees to determine... Now this is the amount of PLN 95 million, so times 2 is going to be PLN 190 million. Then: supplemental equipment of the premises, because they will have to be equipped with all this electronic equipment and this is the amount of 14 million. The official corps will cost $67 million. It's just, I admit, I don't know how it's counted, I don't think it's just for the election period. Next: Computers Approximately PLN 100 million. Because you have to put computers on all the committees, and that's 28,000 circuit boards. And if there's four cameras in each, then all of this has to be multiplied by 4. Yeah, well... We originally planned, taking into account the existing legislation, that the basket of these upcoming elections will increase relatively little, i.e. that it will amount to 308 million, but the changes made result in a raise to almost PLN 0.5 billion. Well, I don't know, but I think the money will be. Because when I spoke to Marshal Kuchcinski when he invited me to the meeting immediately before the first reading in the Sejm and we also discussed issues related to these very things that I am talking about, Mr Marshal, when I quoted these data, he said that the money had to be found and found. So I suspect they'll turn up, if that's the way it's gonna be, then that money has to be for this election to be held. I can't imagine they're gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u336	Excuse me, are they already in reserve... is this amount included in the budget? [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: I mean, we are...]] Do you know what amount is entered?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u337	As far as I know, from my conversation with the Minister a few days ago, we had preliminated just this PLN 308 million for the upcoming elections. But I'll admit that... well, now I'm sure this surplus isn't guaranteed yet, I'm sure it's not yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u338	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Judge, Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Because there are many words here about the 2014 elections, and I understand that this is one of the reasons why we are updating this law today. There have also been allegations of falsifying those elections. It seems to me, Judge, that they were absolutely not forged. I don't know if you'll share my view. And that's my question. After all, the numbers of the committees were drawn. As well as on page 1 of that book back then, there could be Law and Justice, the Civic Platform or other committees. Do you share this view that it is a coincidence de facto that fate has decided that this, and not another committee, was the first in this book, although of course it was possible to avoid this mistake and make a completely different ballot? Nevertheless, it is difficult to speak of forgery when it was decided by the draw. And I also have a rather rhetorical question, but I think it's to the discretion of my colleagues in Law and Justice. I wonder if the senators would contest the outcome of the election if No. 1 had drawn the Committee of Law and Justice and won these elections of Law and Justice. So I would rather appeal for such reasonableness and moderation in the creation of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u340	As for the first question, I will actually confirm what the senator says, that of course there is always a draw when it comes to assigning numbers on election lists. And that's what happened. not only according to the electoral code, but in earlier electoral ordinations this principle was also. So, I suspect, yes, that if the other party got this one, it would probably be the majority of the votes that the party would have. I don't know which one, I don't want to point at any, but I see this mechanism. So, by rejecting the forgery, I see that this is a coincidence. This book really wasn't very well arranged. I'm not saying that, let's say something careful because I'd like to defend the previous judges because they're defending themselves, but it was actually possible to do it differently. You learn from your mistakes. We learned from our mistakes and changed the IT program itself, and above all this book. Well, she looks different. Besides, there'll also be pictograms on this book. So I think that this will in some way be very appealing to voters, even those not interested in these matters on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u341	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u342	Judge, I don't like this book either, and it didn't like it. I am surprised that now the vote will take place in the same way, because who is first in this book, and who is last, will have some effect on the result. I'd be behind the rag, or maybe something intermediate. [[Flats, book... well, well.]] But I am surprised that after this criticism and after these accusations, the same system based on the book will be realized. And I have a question for you about these bars, the question I asked others, which I asked the rapporteurs and which I want to ask you. It's pretty simple, I think. In the current situation, in the current electoral order, in which there is one specific vote mark, and all others invalidate the vote, the amendment of this rule, consent to different marks, also to mark the box... One? I don't know if it's just one. Does the judge think it's a vote seal or not? Will this cause problems with interpretation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u343	As for the first question about this sheet and the book, I understand very well the senator's dilemmas, because we were also confused. When we showed this card and book to our voters or future voters, high school or student youth, including the disabled environment, the voices were indeed different. Nevertheless, most people felt that the book would be easier to use. Płachta could cause problems due to its size, especially in large agglomerations such as Warsaw and Silesia, where there are most electoral committees. This card was 1.2 m by 1 m, so that even technical issues were raised. On the tables that are covered with a dress, there is a paper on which crosses are placed, so the ink would probably pierce to the other side. It was also such doubts, and the disabled environments ruled out the card at all, because during these simulations made by us there was no chance that these people would somehow deposit this card and throw it in the urn. There are pros and cons of this solution, of course. Well, it seemed to us that improving the graphic design, instructions, layout and description of all this would give us a greater guarantee of the efficiency of completing this card. Is this a vote seal? Well, that was the intention. I assume that was the designer's intention. Because, according to the designers, the easiest way to fake a voice is to put a stamp in the grate, to put it in the next grate, or to blur the grate where the cross is already in order to avoid it, there is a rule that every voice with every stamp blurred is important. But I don't know if that's gonna help seal the election because it's hard to talk about a large scale of forgery. It's more like an occasional accident. At least that was the case in the last elections in 2015, in the presidential and parliamentary elections. The number of protests was not too high and the number of decisions in which the courts annulled the vote was minimal in principle. Will it affect the seal of the election? It's hard to say. I'm sure it'll affect your problems, your doubts, your dilemmas. I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of trouble for the circuit boards to assess the voters' intentions. I think Senator Florek was right to say that it is not the role of the regional committee to assess what the voter wanted to say, what preference he had and who he wanted to vote for. Yeah, but that can happen unfortunately, because if you get a card with one cross on it, and a few bars are blurry, and it's going to be a majority vote, where only one vote should be given, so that it's important, then it's going to be a problem. Because the recipe is relatively vague in my opinion. And that's where the most problems will be, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u344	Thank you. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u345	Mr. Chairman, Judge... I'm right here. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Sorry.]] I have a question about what you said about the costs. You talked about these costs, you calculated these costs. You also talked about the cameras and the fact that every camera needs a computer. Do you have a judge in your office who has a technical education? Why am I asking this? What you just said means you've been put on a land mine. Today's cameras, which can transmit live images, small cameras, do not require computers at all. They just need to be connected to the Internet. And therefore, assuming that every camera needs a computer is simply archaic. Do you have someone with a higher degree in technical education who can protect you from stepping on these mines?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u346	We don't have anybody like that in the squad. Maybe some judges have hidden talents, but I don't know anything about it. First of all, we have a whole team of high-level IT specialists, people prepared for this. They made at our request a kind of simulation that we sent out to everyone... I don't think so, but I'm sure we sent it to the club presidents. This was when, during the session of the Sejm committee, there were voices that our programme was poorly prepared and that there would be no way to match it to the number of 400 Commissioners who were originally to divide the communes into districts. Only after the division of municipalities into districts would we have to modify our system, the self-government module, to match it to the new districts. Luckily, it's not there. Now there will be no new division into districts. The system's working. As far as the camera issue is concerned, we have presented cost simulation, installation and needs. I am not tempted to present details about this subject to the senator and you, because my knowledge is simply not very much. I'm certainly not able to present all this technical stuff here. Even if there was a judge among us who knew these things, we wouldn't rely on him, because I'm afraid I'm sorry for the words. That we could go for a drive just like we did in 2014. We have therefore entrusted this to our IT specialists, who have built the entire IT system from the beginning. I think they're high-end specialists who would undoubtedly be able to handle the whole installation... Maybe not with the installation, because that's what the municipalities have to do, but with the development of assumptions. Such assumptions were developed and the simulation was passed on to all club presidents and probably also to the Sejm, Madam President of Milczanowska. We delivered it, and it's at her disposal. I don't have it on me, and I can't demonstrate it to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u347	Judge, I'm sorry, I don't think we understand each other a bit. What I'm saying is, if you had someone on the technical level who was permanently in charge, we avoided the accident we had, i.e. technical failure. I'm afraid the state in good faith orders it outside, these great IT guys, and they produce all kinds of interesting solutions... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Sorry, this is not an outside company. These are our employees who have been working with us for years, so that...]] Yeah, I'm talking about... Don't you see the need? There's progress, technology goes forward So we don't write manual protocols? Technology is moving forward, and you don't have someone on your team who should be taking care of these things and taking personal responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u348	I know all this, Mr. Senator. The problem is what we have raised in one of our speeches addressed to the President, to the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate and to the Prime Minister. It is a matter of circumstances that unfortunately prove that our electoral code is still functioning in the analogue system rather than in the IT system. We can't let ourselves off the record on our own. These protocols must be drawn up. The IT system is still functioning as an auxiliary system. We have proposed to change this and to use the so-called. secure signature, which is now used by various companies. The point was not to have to carry paper protocols in and out between district committees, circuit committees, and then to us, only so that it could be transmitted via the Internet, using a secure signature. We already have the authority to use a secure signature and once we even tried to do so. However, it is a little contra lege, because the code does not allow us to do so. Unfortunately, the legislator did not take this into account, and it would be worth introducing a certain element of modernity here. I'm not talking about an online vote right now, because it's a song of the future, but about modernization issues, about not being, as some people say, King of the Age. The whole transport of these protocols... Well, that's basic. Paper protocol has to be. Those are the requirements. The Election Control Movement, who believe that paper protocols have priority, also insists on this. And according to the code, they have priority. It's only after them that the IT system follows. However, I can assure you here that we have... Of course, someone can always make a mistake, but we do. That's what I think. A very good team of computer scientists who are preparing suitable studies for us. I can't imagine the State Election Commission installing all this. This will probably also be on individual municipalities, on individual representatives of the corps of electoral officials, because all this will have to be distributed... I don't know. I imagine computers and cameras must be on all the circuit boards. Only the issue of data transmission remains. As far as I know. That's what I.T. says. 10%. The country does not have broadband internet that is needed to transmit data. So there might be a problem with that, too. It is not as obvious as it appears from what I have heard, because unfortunately I am not an expert in this area. Even if one of the judges had a technical education, we couldn't trust him to watch over it either, because it has to be the professionals who do it, the right cell to do it. But thank you very much for these comments, we are trying to make sure that this does not happen in 2014. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u349	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u350	Mr President, I would like to know 'Cause I asked in committee, and here, no one could give reasons, maybe you know them. Why this upper limit of the population, which may include a permanent voting circuit, has been increased from 3 000 to 4 000. What happened? As far as I know, the number of inhabitants of Poland remains about the same level or even falls. Anyway, nothing special happened. I am asking because this freedom, this increase, may, in my opinion, indicate a desire to significantly change the boundaries of these circuits. And second question. Was it possible in previous solutions to not create a closed circuit, let's call it, in medical facilities, in social assistance homes, at the request of the person driving in some specific cases, or was it just as generally formulated as it is now, that in justified cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u351	But we're talking about those closed circuits, right? [[Yeah, about the closed ones.]] As for the first question, I'm sorry, but I can't answer the senator. I don't know why. I think that even if there are such fears that it can serve some change, these changes now will not be, which may be a little comforting, but there will be changes in the division... [[...for the next election.]] ...for the future. This is some inconsistency, but the legislator has acknowledged it. It seems to me, however, that these circuits should be divided, these municipalities should be divided by their bodies. But the legislator decided to split it like that. Indeed here, well, in justified cases, because it is not always necessary to create such a circuit... However I admit that the practice was rather like this, as far as I know that in hospitals, on ships these circuits were created, there were no exceptions here. In principle, this provision was treated as a rule, so that the wording of the wording in justified cases is contained here, unless it is of caution. But at least we have never received any complaints that a circuit was not created in a hospital or in another closed or partially closed facility. We haven't met... Perhaps earlier, in the past, and I do not know about it, but for ours, so to speak, there were no times of such complaints. So that I think that this provision was not celebrated somehow, but rather was treated as a rule. I think that's what happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u352	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, Judge, I would like to get back to the book. I have seen such maps broken down into municipalities, probably Prof. Śleszyński produced these maps, in which it was clearly visible that the introduction of books in one of the voivodships It was probably the Mazowieckie Voivodeship that caused such a result, not another result, in quotes when it comes to votes that are invalid. And it also comes here, I'm talking about 2014 this time, the question of the representativeness of the votes cast on PSL. I didn't claim anywhere here, unlike what's supposed to be, it was one big forgery. It's more of a mess. Sorry about the expression. And now, please tell me that Poland listens to us and will listen to us. In your opinion, the elections in 2014, certainly to the Seymists, as far as the results obtained by PSL are concerned, were in line with the real preferences and decisions of the voters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u354	Well, since we're assuming that the book could actually be misleading by the fact that PSL was placed first... Well, he drew that number, and it was right in the beginning as soon as you took the book in your hand. Well, if that's what we're assuming, and that's what the votes were, and I would really be inclined to think that this might have been suggested by some of the voters who voted for the PSL... Indeed, the wording of the card and the card were confused here. So I think, like the senator suggests, such... Indeed, that could have happened. ♪ I'd be like this ♪ He saw, because I can't say that... anyway, the senator himself says that you can't talk about forgery, but rather about this kind of charade, which is some kind of inappropriate preparation. But I think it came out. As I say, it is not my intention to defend at all costs of the previous commission It's a lack of experience. We made that mistake, I hope, they didn't. This will be seen at the 2018 elections. I hope that the voters will now properly read the data that will be in this book, especially the instructions. But the legislator... Of course, I'm not behind the legislator because I'm sure the legislator has taken our suggestions into account. But now that this rule has been introduced into the electoral code, we need to get this book out. And it's a good thing that there's not a rule here that ordered the chairman of the committee to show all the members of the committee a ballot in the form of a book, because that would significantly prolong the procedure. I also understand intentions, and that was before the war. The chairman of the committee showed all the members the card, members could take it in hand, watch it. But that would significantly prolong the procedure, because you'd have to show this book, postcard it. So now this rule has been waived... As far as I can remember... But the intention was good, no doubt the intention was good. Here there were many precisely such intentions, which were intended to serve the transparency of elections. I know there may be doubts about this book, but I think the sum of the summarum is probably better than this sheet. As I said, however, many people were the opposite, and myself, so to speak, the decision-makers of the Law and Justice Party thought that of the two evils, so to speak, I think this book would be better.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u355	If I may, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask. Well, you're a supporter, Mr. Chairman, to check the battle, maybe we can... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Excuse me, supporter of what?]] You're a supporter, so to speak, fighting, maybe it'll work. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Aha.]] And here's the question: if you're a professional... Because you're the representative of the people who are. Let us not hide the most knowledge of technical issues related to elections. The question is, shouldn't you, I don't know, suggest little, even demand that the book get out of circulation? You know, because if I'm reading that the only reason for the book was because the Braille covers had to be used, which used a trace number of people... If we wanted to please the blind, it would be better to bring them in to vote and then drive and buy dinner. It would be cheaper than making Braille overlays, really, just to please the Council of Europe... Because we have a lovely election then, because we all appreciate... And because there was a Braille overlay, we have over 5 million null and void votes. Don't you think it's just going too far the other way? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u356	I do not know if the Braille overlay has caused this, but we cannot deprive these people of their right to vote. That would be contrary to the article. 62, who says that everyone has the right to vote if he is not incarcerated, sentenced to judgment, etc. So, unfortunately, it would be to deprive these people of this right. And if we left this sheet, the Braille overlay wouldn't be an option at all. 'Cause if you had a sheet of 1.20 m on 1 m, you'd still have an overlay on it. We've tried it. It won't enter any cabin... And if there were these booths placed on the tables, because these booths are often placed now, this booth will not go into the booth at all. So that would be a problem. Unfortunately, we had to... And it's not even because of the correctness, it's because of our constitution. We cannot deny these people the right to vote. I understand, it's a small group of people. I agree with the fact that... And we've actually thought about it, too. The cost of these overlays is quite large, and, let's say, the people who use these overlays are not much. Of course, these overlays aren't on every committee, because that would be a lot of money. They're on some committees. The blind or the visually impaired tell us where they are, don't they? These overlays are sent to the committee responsible where the person wants to vote I can't see or I can't see. So it's not that big a sum again. I don't see any other way. We can't take them away... This will immediately have such an effect that there will be complaints to the Strasbourg Court and there will be a problem. [[Mr President, I would like you not to feel that I am against the blind. On the contrary.]] No, I don't feel that way. [[It would be much easier for them to be relieved by allowing a proxy to enter the cabin with them, the more so that the Braille covers had only numbers and not the names of the chosen persons.]] Yes, of course. This is... [[And the blind themselves said that they didn't need it at all. That's what art is for. And that caused, among other things. Of course, that's the result, not the other results. Judge, you're a professional, you should say that, not me.]] Yeah, okay, but I'm not the legislator. However, the legislator still introduces this principle. I would never... Unfortunately, I certainly wouldn't have come out here, demanding the legislator to withdraw from... and deprive the blind, the visually impaired of the right to vote. Well, unfortunately, don't expect me to. I certainly wouldn't be able to do that as a lawyer. Of course, there's another way to look. Well, if it were. successful - Yeah. - as the projectors say, it is an option for the proxy to use the vote in some way to create such a system that the mayor or the representative of the uncle, the official comes to the visually impaired, the blind, he makes an act of power of attorney, and then the attorney himself goes to the committee, and this person, the voter does not have to appear and go to the commune himself... Well, maybe that would actually solve the problem. Except it would have to be included in the rules, or it would be a matter of, say, I don't know, good will from the clerk, but you can't always expect... These complaints that come to us show that, unfortunately, the blind, the visually impaired must come to the communes, because the officials are not very eager to come to them. So that perhaps the discipline of officials by some legal act, I do not know whether it would necessarily be a change of law or an order of the minister responsible, would give some effect. Well, I'm not saying everything's okay. Maybe we need to find another solution. But they certainly cannot be deprived of their right to vote, even if it were one person. Well, maybe I'm insisting, but I'm still making an old lawyer speak. I can't agree to deny at least one person the right to vote. Even if she doesn't vote, she needs to know that she can go, that she has that right. [[We don't want to deprive her of it, we want to make it easier for her, not throw out a baby with a bath.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u357	Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Judge, I have a question about the provisions in the new law concerning The division of the municipalities. I'd like to ask you about the permanent voting circuits. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 §2 of the procedated law is stated that the municipality's division of permanent voting circuits is carried out by the electoral commissioner and in §3 that: the permanent voting circuit should cover between 500 and 4 000 inhabitants. In cases justified by local conditions, the circuit may include a smaller number of residents. And I keep reading. In §4 of the same article. 12 is written: The failure to create a circuit is only possible in justified cases at the request of the person managing the unit. I would like to ask, Judge, who will decide that the case is justified. And wouldn't it be worth creating a closed catalogue that would allow these legitimate cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u359	Yes, in the light of this provision, the Commissioner, the Commissioner, will decide everything on a proposal. So on the Commissioner's side, it's going to be a decision whether to create this circuit or not. But I wouldn't be so afraid of some bossy commissioner's decision, because the court's way is... So that here, however, there would be a guarantee that the court would decide. And I wouldn't be afraid of that. Of course, it's gonna be a bit of a tedious procedure, because in the designer's project... Although no, I'm sorry, it won't be tedious, because the principle of speed has been introduced. There's probably three days to file a complaint and maybe a week to get an administrative hearing, which is what I think it's gonna be working. [[But before each election, will the Commissioner be able to change the constituency? So four years from now, in the local election...]] Well, that's the rule. Since the parliamentary elections, he will be able to change them and in every subsequent election he will be able to change them. So, like I said, I don't know if that's the best solution, but that's the recipe that's been introduced. Luckily, there's this appeal court thing. I'm afraid the courts are gonna be flooded with appeals, but, well, it's a good thing that even though it's expensive. [[Courts first...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u360	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u361	Judge, two questions. Is there a legal possibility for the blind or visually impaired in a situation other than the books... Otherwise, is it possible for the blind and the weak to see other ballots? [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: It's written in Braille, right? It's just that they're ready to be so...]] No. Maybe it's a Braille alphabet, but... at least I'm imagining the possibility that... It's about how to prepare a book for this type of person, but only for this type of person. So they'd be like two... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Two types. I see, two kinds.]] ...two kinds. After all, each such person has a certificate of some degree... of disability of another kind, etc. So from the formal side, you can keep an eye on it. But is it possible, from the point of view of electoral law, to apply such a solution? It's one question. Two. It's about the election commissioners. According to the present law, according to the provisions of the present law, the commissioner must have legal education, and must give a guarantee... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: I'm sure he must. Of course, if he's a judge, he's gotta have...]] No, no. He's got to be a judge now. And this bill changes that... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: The Act changes it so...]] ...i.e. He's leaving the judge's system. So he's got to have a law degree... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Higher.]] Higher law. Is there a legal average? I don't think so. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Well, the rule says that higher law is so written, so it is written...]] All right. The legislator thinks... the bill probably assumes that there are also legal averages, and maybe basics... [[I suspect the point is that he's higher in law, Mr. Marshal.]] No... Higher law, I get it. And the second as part of this catalog, the second rule: must have... must be a guarantee that, as I understand it, it is an honest man. Then the question is: can prosecutors be commissioners?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u362	Well, I'm afraid the prosecutors can't be commissioners in the light of the D.A.'s law because they can't do any other work. Just like lawyers, lawyers, judges... well, judges... judges all the more so. Well, I guess with the judges... maybe with the prosecutors... If they could get permission from their superiors, perhaps, theoretically, they might be able to - although I don't imagine such a situation. Now, about the first question... That's an interesting question, because... But I believe that the electoral code would have to be amended for this purpose. Because the electoral code says that the ballot is a one-sided printed card, and when it is not possible to produce or draw or use it, then you can use the book. And in the general election, there can only be a book. So I think that here the legislator would have to introduce rules saying that in the case of visually impaired people there will be a book such as this or this and this. And by the way, back to that second question... I suspect that as far as the commissioners are concerned, they'll probably... I don't know if it's gonna be... Today I spoke to Marshal Karczewski, who wondered if they would be willing, and said that he was afraid that there would be no applicants. I say they'll probably be, I think there's going to be an excess. 'Cause they could be lawyers who are, like, After a lawyer's application, and they didn't open a law firm because of the saturation of the market with lawyers, it doesn't pay off because the maintenance costs of the law firm are higher than the salary, they can also be some people, I don't know, after college who haven't taken a job or worked for a short time. Well, that's the kind of person they could be. But I don't think that even if, theoretically, there could be lawyers, counselors, prosecutors or judges... I don't think that's what they want to do. All the more so because, I think, there is a personal issue here, too, perhaps, that the judge would prefer to be a judge of the commissioner and not, say, a commissioner, but it is only because he is a judge and that, by the way... I think it could play a role, too, but I don't know, it's hard for me to say. I wonder what the candidates are going to be like, whether there's going to be more than 100 places, or if there's going to be fewer. I suspect there'll be a lot of people willing, but there's only one question. just these qualifications and knowledge And that's the problem, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u363	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. There's only five minutes left, so I'm not gonna ask any questions. But I'm still gonna ask. Thank you. Judge, I have a question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 483 §1 is replaced by the following: "The municipal electoral commission shall remove from the list of candidates who have died, lost their right to election, made the false declaration referred to in Article. 479 §2 point 1, at the same time, he is a candidate: to the commune council in a municipality other than that in which he is a candidate for the commune, to the district council, to the sejm of the voivodeship, to the commune in another municipality. Shouldn't this catalog, finished, closed, be extended by this two-channel? Don't you think this case should be described here, too? That's the first question. And the second, equally specific. In the novel article. 478 §3 is replaced by the following: "candidates for the rabbi shall report to the municipal electoral commission no later than 25 days before the election date until 24.00.' In the current law, we are talking about 30 days. I think it's a short time, too. But will this not affect the limitation? Isn't this a short period of time due to, for example, printing cards, etc., etc.? Isn't 25 days too short a time?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u365	I admit I just don't know why there's a problem here these five days. I was trying to do something like this... I thought maybe in the surroundings, so to speak, this recipe is some other recipe that is linked to it and makes it necessary, but I didn't find it. I don't know... Besides, it's not the only time that's been shortened. Another couple of days, so to speak, was cut. I'll admit I don't know why. Well, I think it's better if it's longer terms to give you a better chance of reporting or doing some other action. [[Exactly.]] And here... Well, I'll admit, I don't know why, and I don't think there was a discussion on that at the Parliamentary Committee meeting. And as for this catalog... But in turn introducing the principle that a candidate who has already passed two terms is being deleted from the office, it would be like sealing this rule, that only two terms can perform this function, that no more. I don't know, maybe it wasn't deliberately introduced, or maybe it just wasn't thought of. Indeed, if it is assumed that only two terms can be served, then there must be a method to prevent this third term, if it turns out that this term, however, is starting, or is it possible to begin it. So some body would have to cut it. Well, from this point of view, it would probably be deliberate to introduce this. But if the senator has doubts, too... [[Yes.]] ...if this two-cadence is really appropriate, it would be better not to introduce this provision. But I don't know what led the legislator that he didn't post it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u366	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u367	Judge, about the integrity of the election. If, at the moment, there is a clear rule that only putting up a cross without any mention causes the vote to be considered valid when counting, then I understand that a larger number of votes can be considered invalid when voters decide to make some additions. But the new rule that introduces the possibility of adding different things, different entries also in other fields and recognising that despite this vote as an important voice, I understand, creates a certain gap, a certain danger of making unauthorized corrections to the voting act. Do you share that view? And what do you think the scale of these irregularities would be? I'm talking about the integrity of the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u368	I mean, the problem... Exactly, would these adjustments be made with hands, so to speak, dishonest members of the committee or other persons, or would this scale be due to the fact that the voter unwittingly draws this card in such a way? Whether someone who has bad intentions contributes to this, whether simply inability or lack of knowledge, or getting used to the previous rule by an elector who has now faced the fact... [[But how do you tell the difference?]] I don't know how to tell the difference, I don't know, I'm afraid it's gonna be hard to tell, it might be impossible. 'Cause the committee gets a card that's covered in bars and there's a cross. Well, if this committee didn't get anything here, it doesn't know what the voters wanted. So I agree with the senator that there may be a problem here, and I'm sure there will be a problem with that. And that's all the more reason to doubt a committee that's gonna have to play like a verification body. But the committee can't go that far, for example. change the intentions of the voters, even if they act in good faith, because they may simply not be aware of certain matters and may attribute, so to speak, the wrong intention. The intention to vote for someone other than the one he wanted to vote for. There's one more thing I can think of. In the current system, if the voter puts a cross by some name, then suddenly comes to a conclusion. And there have been accidents like this. He says he's retreating, so he thinks, "A, I've crossed Malinowski, but I think I've done the wrong thing, I'm gonna froze... here this voice is invalid, it's known that it's invalid. And now if he wants to do the same thing and wipes out that cross, the voice will be important. So his intention will be kind of crooked. Because in this way, as if indirectly, he is forced to vote. He can no longer withdraw from it, because if he puts a cross in another grate, it can also be considered an important vote. And it's gonna be kind of like crooking the voters' intentions, which at some point withdrew from the vote, he got the card, he circled something, but at some point he wants out, but he can't, because the handle has fallen, he has to give up the card. Or he won't give it back, but it's now, in light of the new laws, there's a crime, it's criminalized. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u369	Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The National Election Commission has consulted whether citizens are behind the card or behind the brochure. So it was a choice between a sheet and a book. And 70% It was in favour of the book. Thirteen thousand 136 citizens participated in this consultation, which took some time, unless for three or four months. But I'm just wondering, you know, if it wasn't a consultation that actually consisted in asking the citizen what he wanted to get from tomorrow or cancer or plague. 'Cause I think it's one thing and the other. Why can't you make simple, clear choices, one- or two-mandate circles, then the book would be gone, and the sheet, there'd be 10 or 12 names on the card... After all, we were elected to the Senate in one-mandate districts, each part of Poland has its representative here, was not in these elections, nor was there a wallet, nor a book, and the elections were normal. Isn't it worth going in such a direction to do something normal in this Poland, e.g. when it comes to elections? Thank you very much. [[That's a good idea.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u371	Well, that's right, it's just that when it comes to the presidential election, it's the easiest, a little piece of paper is enough, especially in the second round... It's getting a little worse with parliamentarys, but... And there is a problem with the elections to local government authorities, because if we take as an example, as I say, the Warsaw, Silesian or Gdańsk agglomeration, we will see how huge the number of committees is there. Well, in a situation of the unchanged electoral code, we don't have the ability to move here, because the recipe says either a sheet or a book. As a matter of curiosity, we were offered a round card. Then no one would be hurt, no one would be upstairs, no one would be downstairs. But these ideas don't seem to be very relevant to the choices. Of course you can think about it, but here we had no other choice, we had to decide something. I would, of course... Of course, this can be discussed, and I also agree that, due to the complexity of these elections, the most problems will be whether or not the most can be with votes that are not valid. Although I hope there won't be as many as there were in the previous elections. But there's probably gonna be votes that don't matter, because... This is due, for example, to our practice of the 2015 elections. Well, we've seen how uneducated voters are. Well, maybe that's a bad word... It's just that some people aren't particularly interested in this matter, even though the State Election Commission shows on television, on all the programs, spots showing how to vote. It was almost injected into the head. And if only someone wanted to watch it, he could look into it and remember it. But a lot of people weren't interested. I'm sorry to say that. I don't want to be excused here, because I'm sure we'll have to be more careful than we were before. Well, now the doorknob has fallen, and unfortunately there must be a book in these elections. Well, unfortunately... But I think it's lucky, because it's gonna be better than this sheet after all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u372	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u373	Well, I'm sorry, because... no, I didn't forget, it's just new. And that's why I'm asking you a question. Mr. President gave Polsat an interview tonight, but I'm using the 300-politics record here. The president was asked about the bill we're debating and referred to the Senate. Mr President said this: "Part of the concerns, doubts of the head of the PKW is understandable to me and the very hope that such changes will be made to this law in the Senate, such as the question of correspondence voting. I would like the Senate to make changes in this area. Some arguments do not convince me, because in my opinion there are also many good solutions in this proposed law. But one more sentence he said about this law: "In front of the Commissioners, the element should be added that if the PKW did not accept the Commissioner-designate concerned, it should be possible for another person to be identified, and the Senate should also consider it. I don't understand the other part. Because we've been talking a lot about different... First of all, I do not fully understand what you meant by this statement to the President. But if he meant, for example. Maybe it was the head of the office so the PKW could have some effect on... That's the only way I'm paying attention. Once again, I will read: "In front of the Commissioners, the element should be added that if the PKW did not accept the Commissioner-designate concerned, it should be possible for another person to be identified, and the Senate should also consider it. Because I don't think that was the most important remark I've pointed out today, I'm asking you to refer to the other part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u374	Well, the first part... [[And did you, uh... did you consider this to be the most important thing in your meeting with the president?]] As far as the first part of the speech is concerned, it actually faithfully reflects the course of our conversation. Mr President said that he was concerned about the issue of disabled people, especially since both he and the President are getting a lot of letters, various protests on this matter from the disabled, and they are demanding some kind of intervention and change of this. But, of course, I have also presented and put forward maybe not the first plan, but such an equivalent to these issues, what I was talking about today, what I was talking about here as if I was putting on the first plan, the issue of Commissioners and the national office. I have also told Mr President that not only can the Commissioner impose on us a candidate, but also if we disagree for some reason, we have no possibility, the rule does not provide for anything like that, even if the Minister can introduce us to another candidate. That's exactly what the President didn't say in the form that it's in here. It's like he accepted what I cared about, but unfortunately it's just a fraction, because most of all it's very... I would be more pleased if this was about the possibility of presenting at least other candidates for the head of the National Election Office, because this is more important to us. As for the commissioners, I think The more they now, next year, will not divide the municipalities into districts, they will basically oversee the elections with the help of the corps of officials. That, in spite of these shortcomings, let's say, knowledge or education will have to be dealt with in some way. Oh, God, don't let any trouble arise because of that. And as far as the possibility of exchanging or identifying another Commissioner candidate is concerned, this is where the President listened to my arguments, but he did not comment on it in any way. So what you're talking about is something new, I didn't know that. But I'd be more excited if, as I say, it was about a national office, if there was any change here... Well, I mean, that's Mr. President's suggestion. If the senators refer to it, I don't know. [[I mean, I won't, God forbid, make such an amendment, but maybe the Senators of the PiS will listen to the suggestion of the President. And this is almost the last moment.]] Then it would be good to be consistent and propose such an amendment also with regard to the national office. 'Cause that would be a little weird, that only in one way... and here, in this more important field, not anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u375	No further questions... [[One more question for you...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u376	And if the commissioners can't handle it, 'Cause you said there was a risk that they couldn't handle it because of their inexperience. Then who will be responsible for the irregularities during the election? [[Voices from the room: The opposition!]] [[The opposition was in the way.]] [[Voice from the room: Nation.]] [[Tusk's fault!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u377	The way I see it... Like I said, there's a possibility here, and it's unlimited, I mean, there's a premise... The provision provides that the National Election Commission may revoke the Commissioner if he does not carry out his duties or does so improperly. The National Election Commission may revoke such a Commissioner without anyone's consent. So if, at the beginning of the work of such a commissioner, he were found to be really incompetent and not doing well, then perhaps the state committee would have had time to call him off as soon as possible and demand the appointment or appointment of the minister of the new one. And if it turned out to be... Well, it's going to be 100 commissioners, so the state committee won't be able to follow everyone like that. She'll probably be getting some signals, maybe from the officials of the National Election Office, from those of the local delegations. So that's the possibility. But if, let's say, they seemed to work well, and then it turned out that they couldn't handle the task, then, I'm afraid, this is where the State Election Commission will be blamed as the one who called such commissioners. Well, we'll say, but it was the Minister who introduced us to this candidate. And then they're gonna tell us, well, you take responsibility for it, because it's your proxy. And the wheel closes. This is exactly what I was talking about: a proxy imposed by force can never be a good proxy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-20-senat-53-2.u378	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the State Election Commission has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Wcisła. [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: Of course. We'll forward it as soon as possible.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And I'm announcing a recess until 9:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 11]]
