ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Kristian Jarubas, Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, Mr Truskolas and Ms Monica Wielichowska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Kristian Jarubas and Krzysztof Truskolas. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats at the Presidential table. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the joint meeting with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, about an hour. 11.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 12, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 13, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 13, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Reforms of the Justice dimension - hour 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Motorcyclists and Quads - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Loreliosis - 3 p.m. 13. - Parliamentary Group for: Active Family programme - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 18, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 6:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u3	Thank you very much. In fact, the committees have submitted reports: - on a parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the law on social assistance and on a government bill amending the law on social assistance, - about the government bill on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. The reports shall be printed in 1816 and 1743 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted a report on a draft government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports: - on the draft law amending the Law on packaging and packaging waste management and certain other laws, - on a government bill amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1809 and 1811 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that in discussions on these items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health (Print No 1676). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michał Woś to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted is very simple and short, resulting from the voice of the environment. Its purpose is to introduce into the current legal system the legal basis for family courts to instruct the court curator to conduct environmental interviews, both in the enforcement proceedings in family and caring matters and after the custody court has informed the court of an incident which may constitute a basis for the actual initiation of proceedings ex officio and at the stage of the investigation procedure in the case of adults. The commissioning of environmental interviews has so far been regulated, based on a regulation of the Minister of Justice, was included in the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts, and from the relevant provisions, the appropriate legal basis... The Rules of Procedure gave up these rules because of the doubts raised, namely the doubt whether interference in the subjective rights of the citizen could be regulated in the lower order of the regulation. Therefore, a statutory basis is needed. As I pointed out at the outset, the need for appropriate regulation in the Act of Law Order, at the level of the Act, drew attention to the entire community of family judges and professional family curators. The proposed amendment concerns both the Code of Civil Procedure and two laws, which are connected to the Code of Civil Procedure at present, namely the Law on Sobriety Education and the Act on Mental Health Protection. The change is very simple, it consists in the modification of the article. 570 § 1 and 3 of the Civil Procedure Code by adding § 1a, which extends the admissibility of environmental interviews by family courts to curators. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast from Law and Justice presented his position in writing. Please, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law in print no. 1676. This proposal concerns the amendment of three legal acts: the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism, and the third law covered by the proposed amendment is the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The idea of a change that accompanies the designers is contained in the concept of introducing into the legal system rules that form the legal basis for family courts to instruct the court curator to conduct environmental interviews in enforcement proceedings in family and caring matters. The Court of First Instance may obtain this information not only from the guardians of the courts, but also from the relevant support bodies of the family and the system dealing with the matter of the foster care system. The grounds for conducting environmental interviews shall be any circumstance, including where such a circumstance is taken by a court of law, where the court considers it necessary to collect relevant information, specific knowledge, and where the nature of the case is justified by such interviews. Environmental intelligence would concern cases for which a family court is competent concerning minors as well as persons in another age range for which care or prosecution proceedings are being conducted. With regard to older people, the reasons for gathering relevant information are the circumstances, as indicated in the draft, indicating their abuse of alcohol, disturbance of peace or public order, as well as the conduct of such a person in relation to family members or his behaviour towards minors, and the behaviour of persons in respect of whom proceedings are conducted in relation to their staying in employment. The size of the proposed study extends to the assessment of the living conditions of persons who are subject to family court proceedings for the establishment of care and prosecutions, or to the assessment of their functioning in the environment. This study, as far as size is concerned, is therefore very spacious, obtaining information is very extensive. The designers justify that the proposed amendments aim to harmonise the practices of courts and lead, within the meaning of the designers, to the elimination of differences in interpretation. There is no doubt that, in the explanatory memorandum, the designers point out that the authority to conduct interviews at the place of residence or stay of a person of interest to the family court constitutes the State's interference with the rights and freedoms of a natural person protected in the field of national law, both private and public law, and subject to international law standards. The measure of these interferences, which are sometimes necessary, in the sphere of personal property of a natural person must be necessary on the one hand and at the same time necessary for the conduct of a case in respect of which a family court takes certain decisions. But the measure of this interference must also be within a reasonable scope in terms of achieving the objectives for which such testing is carried out. This measure must be included in certain standards, which are designated, indicated in literature, but must also be accepted by Judaism. The measure of interference in the sphere of personal property of a natural person may raise some doubts and it is the task of the legislator to ensure that the doubts of interpretation of such laws are as small as possible or that they are not. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform shall submit a request for the proposed act to be submitted for further seismic work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. An environmental interview shall be conducted to determine the family situation concerning the minor and his social environment; to determine the living conditions of the persons concerned and their functioning in the environment; to determine the circumstances indicating the abuse of alcohol by the persons concerned and the disturbance of peace or order by them; in matters relating to the establishment of care or prosecution and enforcement proceedings in these cases in order to determine the possibility and manner of care or prosecution and the living conditions of the persons concerned. The environmental interviewer shall be obliged to keep confidential the circumstances of the information obtained. Intelligence must be objective. The consultative bodies may include: social assistance centre, as well as e.g. He's a district guy. The court shall, by commissioning an environmental interview to the curator, determine the activities to be carried out. In this way, it shall monitor the enforcement of the decision by the authorised entities. The curator must identify himself and inform the persons providing the information about the name and address of the authority ordering the interview and its purpose. The way and mode of conducting the environmental interview need to be specified. The probation officer's report should, first of all, describe only the authorised and performed activities and the circumstances found. The Ombudsman intervened in this case a year ago. Citizens have the right to respect for private and family life. According to the Ombudsman's suggestion, the grounds and criteria for the interview should be clearly and strictly set out in the laws. So far there is a lack of implementing provisions in the current legislation. The problem occurs, among others. in cases where proceedings are conducted against persons with psychiatric disorders for the placement of persons in a psychiatric establishment or social assistance centre, the establishment of living conditions of persons with disabilities, the carrying out of an environmental interview with candidates for legal guardians or guardians of persons with disabilities. And there are more examples here. Will this amendment clarify the role of curators in conducting environmental interviews? Here the project attempts to standardise the issue of environmental intelligence. It is characteristic that no entity has reported an interest in the work on this project. Laws. The proposed provisions in the amendment of the laws provide the legal basis for conducting an environmental interview at the place of residence of the person. The court's curators shall carry out tasks of an educational, rehabilitation, diagnostic, preventive and control nature laid down by law in connection with the enforcement of judgments of the court. This draft amendment of the bill gives rise, I hope, to changes in the role of curator in conducting interviews. We are in favour of directing him to further work in the Parliamentary Committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, print no. 1676. As a result of the entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 25 June 2015, The Rules of Procedure of the General Courts in which the rules governing the conduct of environmental interviews by court curators have been waived, there has been a need to regulate the statutory rules for conducting such interviews. On the basis of the regulation proposed in this proposal, guardians will be able to instruct the court to conduct environmental interviews also in enforcement proceedings in caring cases and after the custody court has informed the court of the incident which may give rise to the initiation of proceedings of its own motion and at the stage of the investigation procedure in the case of adults. After the change, the court's curators will also be able to conduct environmental interviews in cases concerning the use of compulsory treatment of alcohol addicts, as well as the placement of a person in a psychiatric hospital or admission to a social assistance home without their consent. The information collected by the court curator during the environmental interview will help the court assess whether there are non-medical reasons to decide whether a person who is addicted to alcohol is obliged to take treatment or to place a person without his consent in a psychiatric hospital or to refer him to a social security home. High Izbo! Existing rules, i.e. The law of 27 July 2001 on guardians of the courts does not specifically govern the categories of cases and the type of proceedings in which the court or judge is entitled to order a professional curator to conduct an environmental interview. In view of this, the proposal to clarify the rules in this area should be assessed positively. The conduct of an interview at the place of residence or residence of the person concerned constitutes State interference in the sphere of rights and freedoms protected by both national and international law. Unclear criteria for such interference, based solely on interpretation rules and not on legislation, may raise doubts from the point of view of the standards of the rule of law. This project will clarify the criteria for the commission of an environmental interview by the court. It should be stressed that the implementation of the responsibilities of care courts resulting from supervision of care for their implementation requires specific tools. Without the knowledge of the living conditions of a person who is incapacitated or disabled, including his or her living, social situation, it is not possible to verify the manner in which he or she is taken care of and the circumstances and, in the past, to determine correctly the extent of the custody of the guardian or guardian for such a person. In this context, the proposed regulation - as an improvement in the functioning of courts and curators - should be considered beneficial for the efficiency of the supervision system in Poland. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of us in the High House being able to continue this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health Protection. This amendment standardizes the issue of commissioning curators by courts to conduct environmental interviews. The draft records cover family and caring matters, covering both minors and adults. They shall regulate the law in question in the event of the establishment of care or prosecution and the determination of the circumstances of abuse of alcohol or of the living conditions of the persons concerned. The provisions contained in the draft relate to situations justifying the initiation of ex officio proceedings, as well as enforcement and exploratory proceedings. As the applicants point out in the justification of this project, the need for its adoption was due to the failure of the Minister of Justice to take the matter into account in the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts of 23 December 2015. Environmental intelligence plays an extremely important role: it provides the fullest information about the persons concerned by the proceedings, helping the court to make assessments and contributing to the issuing of decisions that are often life-changing. It is important for such a tool to have the right basis in the regulations and to come directly from them. It is important for the courts to have appropriate instruments to perform their functions properly and reliably. I am convinced that this will enable them to remove interpretation doubts from the legislation, which is aimed at the novel discussed today. During the consultation and evaluation of the project, concerns were expressed that some of its records, such as the possibility of commissioning interviews on minor cases and custody cases of minors at the stage of the procedure registered in the list, infringe citizens' rights and freedoms. I agree with the opinion that this comment is not justified. As the applicants raise, the primary objective is to take care of the welfare of the child. The court is required to do so by the relevant legislation and is to do so under the new rules. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u13	Thank you. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, print no. 1676. The proposal concerns the introduction of provisions which constitute a legal basis for family courts to instruct a court curator to conduct environmental interviews in family and caring matters, including after the decision to be enforced and after the custody court has ordered information which may constitute a factual basis for the initiation of proceedings of its own motion. According to the applicants, the project will regulate environmental intelligence in cases e.g. to treat people who are addicted to alcohol or to place them in a psychiatric hospital or a social security home without consent. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after the date of the announcement. As the applicants state in the explanatory memorandum, the information collected by the probation officer will help the court to decide whether to rehab or stay in a psychiatric hospital. This will also help to remove interpretation doubts about environmental interviews and thus to bridge the existing legal gap. However, the project also contains numerous shortcomings, e.g. It interferes with the sphere of human rights and freedom, which is the basis for our functioning. The project lacks the categories of cases and types of proceedings in which an environmental interview can be commissioned. The criteria for regulating environmental interviews are also unclear. In addition, a custody court in care cases for the wholly incapacitated or prosecutors may order an environmental interview without referring the case to the probation team of the judicial service. We will want to ask applicants about these unclear criteria during the work in the Parliamentary Committees, and for my part I can declare that the Modern Posel Club recommends the project for further work and expects our doubts to be resolved and clarified so that we can support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u15	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The National Council of Curators, which has given a negative opinion on most of the solutions proposed in this draft law, has a number of doubts about the solutions presented in this law. And I have a question for the Minister if he shares the doubts of the National Council of Curators, which includes. claims that the implementation of the provisions of this law will significantly increase the commissioning of environmental interviews to curators. How have such interviews developed over the last two years? Did the Ministry predict how much such interviews would increase after the entry into force of the Act? The conduct and performance of professional environmental intelligence by the curator requires multifaceted arrangements and obtaining information from many sources, including. Police, social services, schools, psych-pedagogical counseling. In order to obtain such objective and meaningful information, it is also necessary that the curator does not give notice of the date of his visit, which in turn carries the risk that the persons with whom the interview is to be conducted will be absent and further attempts to make contact will be necessary. In such a case, does the Ministry provide for reimbursement of the financial costs incurred by the curators for carrying out over-standard activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u17	Thank you. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. In the performance of their duties, professional curators shall have the right to assist in carrying out their duties, inter alia. from the police, as well as local government units. And the question is: Can a professional curator, as an enforcement authority, instruct the police, social assistance centre or other institution to draw up an opinion, possibly conduct an environmental interview? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if the environmental interview procedure provided for by the Act contains protective provisions for minors, children of addicts. Such a procedure, sometimes not very gently conducted, can also lead to disturbances in the normal functioning of the child, can put them under stress. I just want to make sure it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u21	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the first question, the National Council of Curators has indeed presented its opinion, and we do not think that it is an opinion that contains a number of doubts, as these doubts are actually limited only to concerns about the increase in labour volumes and indeed about costs. Here it must be made clear that the court's curators are conducting these environmental interviews in most cases, as there is different practice in courts as to the basis on which such environmental interviews can be invoked. Therefore, after an analysis, we considered that these environmental interviews would not be more than they are being conducted at the moment. They will be in the same amount as they were carried out by 2015, i.e. to amend this Regulation. The probation officers were doing the job anyway. At the moment, in most cases such environmental interviews are carried out. However, the increase in the costs incurred by the curators is, of course, carried out on a general basis, and we do not change this further. This is governed by the Law on Curators of the Court. As for the second question concerning the possibility of commissioning the police and other institutions to draw up appropriate opinions, Mr. Curators can already apply to various institutions for help in drawing up such an opinion. As regards the questions about minors, I would like to assure you that work is underway. There is a team in the ministry working on amendments to the Juvenile Procedure Act. Those regulations are indeed to be provided for there. There will be an appropriate procedure to ensure that there is as little stress as possible in the case of minors to avoid such stress and unnecessary additional harm from the state. At the moment, environmental interviews with minors are also carried out in the case of minors - also on the basis of the rules already in force. The rules already provide for certain protection, appropriate protection for those most vulnerable people, whom the state should be most concerned about. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u23	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, and the Act on Mental Health Protection, print No 1676. The purpose of the proposed law on amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, as already presented by the Government Party, is to introduce into the current legal system provisions providing the legal basis for family courts to order the judicial curator to conduct environmental interviews in the enforcement proceedings carried out in family and custody matters and after the custody of the information about the incident which may constitute the basis for the actual initiation of proceedings from office as well as at the examination stage in the case of adults, as well as to regulate the issue of environmental intelligence in other categories of matters arising from the provisions of special laws for which the relevant family court is the case, namely the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and alcohol prevention (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2016 poz. 487) and the Law of 19 August 1994 on the Protection of Mental Health (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2017 poz. 882), where the introduction of a legal basis for commissioning environmental interviews is desirable due to the nature of these cases. The Ministry of Justice justifies the need for the amendments contained in the proposal that as a result of the entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 25 June 2015. Rules of Procedure of the General Courts (Journal of Laws) U. poz. 925), in which the rules concerning the conduct of environmental interviews by court curators have been waived after the end of the family proceedings and after the establishment of the legal care which they contained. § 259 and 260 of the Regulation of the Minister for Justice of 23 February 2007 Rules of Procedure of the General Courts (Journal of Laws) U. z 2014 poz. 259), rightly recognising that their place of placement is an act of statutory rank due to the nature of the legal matter concerned, i.e. interference in the subjective rights of the citizen... The need for appropriate regulation in this area has also been highlighted by the environment of family judges and professional family curators, bearing in mind the need to adopt a uniform practice throughout the country and the need to eliminate differences in interpretation. As the proposed amendments are justified and necessary, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice request that the proposal be submitted for further legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u25	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, contained in print No. 1676, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village (Prints No. 1537 and 1761). I ask Mrs Urszula Pasławska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. On 19 July, the first reading of the Act took place at the meeting of the cultural committee. The law has been amended legislatively. The amendments were not substantive but grammatical. All clubs, all Members, were able to reach an agreement on the support of this law. The position of the Government of the Republic of Poland in this matter is also positive. The justification of the law, which was presented by the applicants, is substantive and historical in nature, referring primarily to the martyrdom of the Polish village from the time of World War II, but let us remember that the martyrdom and political empowerment of peasants took place since the time of the Kościuszko insurrection, then the January Uprising. However, there is no doubt that the largest sacrifice of Polish villagers was made during the last war, World War II. They were executed, thrown out of their homes, robbed of their property, transported to concentration camps and forced robots, only because they felt like Poles and spoke Polish. Despite the threat of life, they were not afraid to help guerrillas and even to join the Battalions of Boys themselves. They helped runaways hiding from persecution. It is also hard to overestimate the fact that in such difficult times they worked in the field to feed the resistance soldiers or villagers, often without pay or compensation. The heroic attitude of the Polish village for the first time in history will be so distinguished, for which, I hope, all parliamentary and parliamentary clubs will agree. The date of 12 July selected by the applicants shall be chosen by no accident. On that day in 1943, a great massacre took place in the village of Michniów in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. The Nazis murdered all residents, not even saving babies, just because they courageously helped Polish guerrillas. July 1943 is also an apogee of murders in Volyn, where the villagers were also mostly murdered. The day of martyrdom has soldiers cursed, has a Polish clergy. Now, I hope, it is time for our joint initiative, our common cause, that in this historical first act the Polish village should also be honored. I can say that I hope that, as in the Committee on Culture, there was an agreement over division, with the vote at the plenary session, this agreement will also be reached. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u27	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Mieczysław Babinetz, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to pass its position on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. The period of World War II was tragic for the whole Polish nation, also for the Polish village. While there are many works of literature and a film about how war reality looked like in Warsaw or in other cities, we still know very little about the difficult experiences of this period in the Polish village. Yet the war reality of the Polish village is fear, crimes against the civilian population, hunger and displacement. It is difficult in such circumstances for heroic attitudes, and yet the Polish village did not give up. She was really heroic. It was the villagers who accepted under their roof, risking their lives, Jews, helped Polish troops, supported the civilian population, who was to leave the city, had to leave the city. Poland's village is also a conspiracy activity and a struggle to defend every piece of its land. The village has always been the backbone of Polishness and patriotic attitudes. It is a great science from all our history, but also a challenge for the future, to constantly appreciate the role of the Polish village. In tribute to the inhabitants for their heroic attitude in the face of war crimes, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. May this day become a monument commemorating the cruel events of World War II and a monument to thousands of often nameless heroes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u29	Please, Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern. There's no envoy, either. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u30	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our opinion, our position towards the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. High Izbo! As a representative of the club that the project brought, as a representative, to present at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media in the so-called. The first reading of this project can, of course, be formulated at the beginning by only one statement. Of course we support, of course we are in favour of setting up the proposed holiday. A holiday established in homage to the inhabitants of Polish villages for their patriotic attitude during World War II, for the help given to residents, refugees, people hiding from persecutions and displaced persons, fighting in guerrilla troops, feeding the inhabitants of the cities and soldiers of the underground Polish state, and with respect to the vast amount of victims of the villagers being shot, thrown out of their homes, deprived of their belongings, exported to Soviet camps and German concentration camps and forced labor. High Seym! Exemplary examples of these words are immense, but what key is to guide yourself, which tragic events to choose, to quote? More than 800 villages, pacified, burned towns, hundreds of thousands of people subjected to extermination and great suffering. From the first days of September 1939 German soldiers of the Wehrmacht were mass murders. As they entered the conquered villages, they killed random residents. In this way, people living in the villages of Lelów, Slężany, Szczekociny and Daleszyce were shot. 80 people were murdered in Leipzig, in Pińczów - 50 people, in Miechów - 30 people. It's on kielce land. In Szczuczki, the municipality of Wojciechów, on my Lublin land, already on October 1, 102 men were brutally murdered in a closed school. Speaking of Lublin Voivodeship, it is impossible not to mention Sochy in the municipality of Zwierzyniec, beautifully located among the forests of the village, which on June 1, 1943. The Germans completely leveled the ground - one house survived, as witnesses testify - and deprived more than 200 inhabitants of the village of Borów in Kraśnicki County, where on February 2, 1944 the Nazis pacified and, together with the next five villages, killed about 1,000 inhabitants, including several hundred women and children. High Seym! A separate reminder requires the Zamość Uprising. It was the second largest post-war military act against the German occupation. The victim of repression was over 100,000. Poles. The brutality of the expulsions was unprecedented. People were expelled from their homes, giving only 20 minutes to get the most needed things. The displaced population was slammed in transition camps, where the so-called. racial studies. The suffering of children - the victims of these degenerate plans - must be emphasized separately. I'm assuming about 30,000. The kids, the children of Zamość passed through this hell. High Izbo! In the bill we proposed the date of 12 July as the day established by the Day of Combating and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. And although it is a symbolic date in some sense, it is also intended to remind about the tragic events of the pacification of the village of Michniów and is also a memory of the apogee of the Volyn slaughter. I mention Michniów, where on July 12 and 13, 1943. The Germans murdered 204 people, including 103 men, mostly burned them alive, 53 women and 48 children, including Stefanka Dąbrowa - a 9-day-old baby thrown into a burning house. At the same time, I am pleased to announce that work is finally underway on the extension of the existing mausoleum, with the preservation and inclusion in the architectural composition of the existing Golgota Michniów. High Seym! Despite threatening repression and persecution, the Polish village showed a patriotic attitude throughout the war. Its inhabitants were part of many conspiracy groups. The village fed inhabitants of cities and guerrilla troops, sheltered Poles displaced from their homes by the occupier. She paid a huge price for this patriotic attitude. Very [[♪ The bell ♪]] we thank and ask you to support this probably late but very much needed act of establishing the feast of martyrdom of the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the European Union, I have the honour of supporting this law, of course. It's hard to imagine it could be different. Here, in particular, Mr Łopat presented this in very detail. I also support all these speeches before mine, which were, and I do not want to repeat myself after them. Mr Łopat very comprehensively presented the detailed reasons why such a law should be adopted. I must say that martyrdom of course, Zamoszczyzna are familiar things, but it is always worth remembering them, it is worth remembering them. But the attitude of the Polish village, the heroism of the inhabitants, their diligence, patriotism - because at the basis of all this was patriotism - led to the fact that the Polish resistance movement was considered one of the strongest or most numerous. Is there a dispute in Yugoslavia... Those were a little different terms. In any case, the underground in general London was one of the strongest undergrounds in Europe, and this was only possible because this was the attitude of the village. The issue of aid for refugees is not yet sufficiently explored - because it is more or less known for military troops - for refugees, for people who for various reasons hid from Germany. It's a huge job. The Jews have already been mentioned. So, in short, this attitude of the inhabitants of the Polish village caused that this chapter, tragic, sad, gloomy, Second World War, is also one of the most... is an example of the greatest heroism and beautiful attitudes that have appeared on this occasion. And this backyard, most widely understood, was made up of Polish peasants, created a Polish village and only because it was possible. Therefore, tribute and honor are due to these people, and I think that any discussion or exchange of views in a critical sense is unnecessary. A few small remarks, as it is between friends. I believe - in fact, it is not in the act itself, it is in the justification - that combining the date of 12 July, i.e. the pacification of Michniow... It's not good when you connect two completely different things. I would not link the issue of the Polish village with persecutions of Poles in the East. These are two different things. There are enough people in Poland, especially outside Poland, in the East, who are working very hard to make Polish-Ukrainian relations as worst as possible, and who would give very much to Poland to have the worst relations with Ukraine, and I do not think it should belong to this choir. Although in the act itself, I have to say about the text of the bill... The justification is basically not a law, but since these elements were also present in the speeches, I consider these elements unnecessary at the moment. That's not the subject. This matter was discussed at another time, perhaps still to be discussed. That's the other thing. I'd skip the term "soldiers cursed." Who cursed them? This is the PiS forgery of history. They're driving, five times a day refusing to... It's like the PiS is some sort of continuation. Maybe today they still feel like they're fighting a war in the underground. In fact, if anything, they're solid soldiers. This term, in my opinion, is very unfortunate, because I don't really understand who cursed them, I don't really see the sense and need to use this dubious term, which is already the function of current propaganda in falsifying history. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, this is undisputed, I am glad that this kind of law - I hope - will be adopted by the Sejm. The Union, as I recall, European Democrats will be very pleased to vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u33	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the blood of the last drop of veins we will defend the spirit - defending ideas, thoughts and patriotic attitudes takes on particular importance during the period of threat, enslavement of the state and nation. During World War II, the inhabitants of Michniowa cooperated with the Polish resistance movement, mainly with Świętokrzyskie groups of the National Army commanded by Lt. Jana Piewnik ps. It's grim. In retaliation for their loyalty to national values on 12 July 1943, the German expedition burned down a part of the village, murdered more than 100 inhabitants. In view of the unimaginable beastyness, in retaliation of the same night soldiers por. Jana Piwnik attacked a train in the Podłazia area, killing and hurting dozens of Germans. Unfortunately, this did not stop the brutality and cruelty, which throughout the war accompanied all actions of the German invader in the enslaved but still not losing the spirit of Poland. The next day the German invaders returned to Michniów. Without being able to break faith, belief in rebuilding independent Poland, unable to destroy the spirit of the nation, unable to finally intimidate, they decided that they would destroy and murder. On that day the village of Michniów was completely destroyed, vanquished, brutally murdered 204 people, including 54 women and 48 children. And just as they did over 2,000. Years ago, the Romans of Carthage, the Germans also banned the reconstruction of the village, the cultivation of the surrounding fields, because they wanted not only to vanquish, but also to wipe out the unbreakable, patriotic attitude of the inhabitants of Michniów. But were they able to erase, destroy the spirit of the nation? We, and all those who are and will be dead, bear witness that they are not. Every nation lasts as long as its spirit lives, as long as it believes and preserves its values. The Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle fully supports the law establishing 12 July, the pacification day of Michniov, the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. The martyrdom of the Polish village is a huge area of persecution which the rural population of the Republic met during the Second World War. Clearly, it is our common duty to commemorate the victims of these crimes. It is also worth recalling here, because in August the round, 80th anniversary, the Bolshevik operation of Poland, or actually anti-Polish, should be said, carried out in the territory of the Soviet Union, but consisting in mass murder of Poles, mainly of rural population. At the time, the Soviets murdered at least 111 thousand in 1937 and 1938. Poles. Some researchers are even going in the direction of a figure close to 200,000. It was a great, and still forgotten genocide to this day. Returning to World War II and the occupation of the Republic - the German invader carried out mass pacifications, just the murders of the population of hundreds of Polish villages. There were more than 800 of them within the current borders of the Republic of Poland, and if you add to it German pacifications in the Eastern Kreses, the number of murdered Polish villages may reach nearly a thousand. It began in 1939, in retaliation for the tactical successes of the Polish Army in the September campaign. Later, the Germans murdered the helpers, such as the Major's branch. Hubala, Dobrzanski. With the development of activities of the Polish Underground State and Polish social resistance, the resistance of the Polish village Germany began to apply regular pacifications towards residents of individual villages cooperating with a partisan, i.e. simply with independence formations, formations of the Polish Underground State. In front of the inhabitants of Polish villages hiding Jews... After all, the Ulm family are inhabitants of the Podkarpackie village of Marków, who suffered martyrdom at the hands of the Germans for hiding Jews and saving their lives. The pacifications also took place against villagers who rescued or hid escaped prisoners of war. In addition, there were German pacifications towards villagers who failed to comply with compulsory quotas imposed by the Germans, food supplies. Moreover, since the beginning of the occupation, the Germans had displaced the population of Polish villages with lands directly incorporated into the Third Reich. This happened in the case of about 900 thousand. holdings. At the end of 1942, the mass displacement of Poles from Zamość began. And finally, you have to remember. about the mass displacement or removal of forced labor to Germany inhabitants of Polish villages. As for this particular crime in Michniów, it was at least 212 murdered for the help of Major. The cellar of the Ponure. This case has already been discussed by many previous speakers. I'll just add two other examples. The village of Lipniak-Majorat near Długosiodel in northeast Mazowsze - 448 people murdered on the last day of the German occupation, already under the side of the next invader - the Red Army, therefore it was not examined later, because perhaps the Red Army could help these people, but it did not. This was recalled at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media by Minister Magdalena Gawin. Another example is the Alexandrians in the Bilgoraj district - 580 murdered by the Germans inhabitants of this village during many murders, many pacifications during World War II. But let us also mention, since this was a talk about soldiers who were steadfast or soldiers who were cursed - by the way this concept has nothing to do with it, it was not invented in years of activity of Law and Justice, only much earlier and by other communities of historians - that this is also an example of persecution of the Polish village by communists. In the 40s and 50s there was a branch of the former Battalion soldier Józef Cieśla in Podkarpacie. For his help more than 200 inhabitants of Polish villages were persecuted. And one more reason why we have a duty to celebrate the Michini. In July 2008 there was a project of PSL to celebrate the 65th anniversary of the Michniov pacification, a symbol of the martyrdom of the Polish village. It's been positive, I mean. this draft resolution, by the Committee on Culture and Media, but later apparently a marshal, a very well-known figure of the Civic Platform, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's connected, but not to the village, but to the CSI, he's blocked this project. And that is why now, although after 9 years, we are especially obliged to celebrate the victims of the German genocide on the inhabitants of the Polish village.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u37	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u38	The Law and Justice Club, of course, supports this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u39	Thank you, sir. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u40	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We believe that it is important to honor the memory of the civilian villagers who, during World War II, risked their own lives and their loved ones, helped soldiers and guerrillas fighting the Nazi invader. The victims of the Volyn slaughter, who were brutally murdered by Ukrainian nationalists, also deserve to be commemorated. As Andrzej Leder wrote in his "Delighted Revolution": The peasants are unwanted parents of the Polish society. Today we forget or do not want to remember that most Poles have peasant roots. Monika Strzępka and Paweł Demirski made this clear by their performance in the name of Jakub S. Wiesław Myśliwski also emphasized this in his literary work. The bill is a good step to value peasant culture and remind Poles that it had a huge impact on our history. The Modern Posel Club agrees with the project establishing the 12th July Day of the Fight and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u41	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question, so far the only one. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village, establishing the 12th July Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village, is the most appropriate initiative. The purpose of the bill is to pay tribute to villagers for the role they played during World War II, for the struggle, helping refugees, feeding soldiers and inhabitants of cities, for the nightmare of displacement and persecution. At such a time it is also worth recalling that the Polish village witnessed genocide in Nazi extermination camps located in many places in our country. The Kulmhof extermination camp in Chełmno nad Ner in the Kolski district was one of those hellish places where the Nazi invader took over 200,000 lives. Victims. Every year in the Jesuit Forest, in the mass graves of murdered Jews, Czechs, Gypsies and Poles, we honor their memory. Thanks to the efforts of the new authorities of the museum and local government of Wielkopolska Voivodeship, since 2013, the museum has managed to modernise and secure memorial sites, but the museum still has many needs. One of them is the renovation of the largest monument in the clearing in the Żuchowski Forest in 1964. Currently, the museum is at the stage of preparatory work to announce the tender for the construction and construction project. After this project the museum authorities will know the exact cost of renovation, but already this cost amounts to around 1200 thousand. zł. On this matter, I address the Minister, the Minister of Culture, also in an appropriate interpellation, and I want this to sound good in this House. This is a special place of memory and it is unworthy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's so dramatic that it's ruining. I move that we find the resources for this monument. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u43	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the rapporteur, Ms Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for your very substantive speech, for the agreement on this very important issue. So far, events related to the Polish countryside have been appreciated in resolutions. Today we are proceeding over the bill, therefore it is a historic event, a historical act. And I thank all the parliamentary clubs and the Minister of Culture for their positive position on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u45	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law establishing the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 welcomes the initiative to commemorate the heroic attitude of villagers during World War II. Their patriotic approach, aid to the persecuted, fighting in guerrilla troops, feeding the inhabitants of cities and soldiers of the Underground Polish State deserve a special distinction. The choice for this holiday on 12 July, on the first day of Michniov's pacification and the apogee of murders in the Eastern Knights, should be considered appropriate and worthy of full support. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports and votes in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u47	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Anton Baraniak, a soldier of the Incorruptible Church (prints no. 1673 and 1682). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Anthony Baraniak, the Soldier of the Incorruptible Church. The Committee on Culture and Media, following its first reading and the examination of the draft resolution at its meeting on 5 July this year, invites the High Sejm to adopt this draft resolution as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the Archbishop Antoni Baraniak, a soldier of the steadfast Church, on the 40th anniversary of his death. Forty years ago, on 13 August 1977, Archbishop Antoni Baraniak died, for many years one of the closest associates of the Primate of Poland Cardinal August Hlond and Primate of Poland Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Archbishop Antoni Baraniak was born on 1 January 1904 in Sebastianów. From 1933 to 1948 he served as Secretary and Primate Chaplain of Poland Cardinal August Hlond. After his death he became the secretary and chaplain of the Primate of Poland Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Due to his close cooperation with Polish Primate Stefan Wyszyński, Bishop Antoni Baraniak became one of the most important representatives of the Polish Church in the worst times of the Polish People's Republic and Stalin's persecutions. During the arrest of Polish Primate Stefan Wyszyński on the night of September 25 to 26, 1953, Bishop Antoni Baraniak was also arrested, who was imprisoned in a prison at ul. Rakowiecka in Warsaw. Communists tried to get rid of Primate Stefan Wyszyński at all costs. They intended to bring a trial to Primate Stefan Wyszynski for counter-revolutionary activity and treason. To this end, they wanted to force testimony incriminating Stefan Wyszyński on his closest associate Bishop Anton Baraniaku. During 27 months Bishop Antoni Baraniak was questioned at least 145 times. He was tortured, humiliated, beaten, starved and held in the darkroom. Despite the great suffering he was inflicted on him, Bishop Antoni Baraniak remained faithful to Primate Stefan Wyszynski, faithful to the Church. In 1956 he was released and served God, the Church and Homeland until his death. Beautiful words about Archbishop Anton Baraniak were said by the present metropolitan of Cracow archbishop Marek Jędraszewski: 'If not Archbishop Baraniak and his relentless attitude, there would be no return of Primate Wyszyński to Warsaw after the period of imprisonment, without Primate Wyszyński there would be no Cardinal Wojtyla and then John Paul II'. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, recognizing the merits of the great Polish patriot, Archbishop Antoni Baraniak, for the Church and his consecration to God and people, pays tribute to his memory. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Catholic Church in the period of the Polish People's Republic played a huge role in the fight for free Poland. It is worth recalling that the Catholic Church, in particular the Polish Catholic Church, was one of the few social institutions which retained autonomy towards the sovereign communist state. The faith and Christian tradition rooted in Poles did not allow Communists to combat forms and manifestations of freedom. Therefore, the activities of priests were particularly closely monitored by the special services apparatus in post-war Poland. By accusing them of collaborating with Western empires, espionage, and criminal activity, they were arrested and staged against them in court with prison sentences, life sentences, or death sentences. We also remember the repressions of the 1980s, when the communists committed persecution and the brutal murders of priests working with the Solidarity. It is worth reminding and supplementing the history of priests from the period of communism, who, despite severe repression, aroused memory and longing for freedom in Poles. It is often forgotten how important this point was on the difficult path for Poland to regain independence. Polish clergy played a huge role in preserving the identity of the Polish society and thus the Polish political community during communism. We must remember that it was the Church that became the arm on which the opposition activity was based during the period of the Polish People's Republic. And the Polish clergy were the stronghold of Polishness and the deepest spiritual opposition of Poles to communism. In this respect, his role was much more important, for example because of the extent of the influence, than the elite groups of the democratic opposition. Finally, I would also like to thank Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, on the initiative of which a draft of the resolution under consideration was drawn up, which commemorates the figure of the great priest and archbishop patriot. Anthony Baraniak, but also resembles the situation of priests during communism, who persecuted, bullied, did not renounce the fight for truth, faith or love for their homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u49	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present my position on the resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemoration of archbishops. Anthony Baraniak, a steadfast soldier of the Church. The draft resolution presented to the High House is similar to that of a great Pole. Archbishop Antoni Baraniak was born in 1904 in Sebastianów. In 1920 he joined the novitiate of the Salesian Society. From 1933 to 1948 he served as secretary and chaplain of Cardinal August Hlond, and after his death he served the same functions at the primate Stefan Wyszyński. Along with the arrest of Primate Wyszyński in September 1953, Bishop Wyszyński was also arrested. A baraniac who was imprisoned in a prison in Mokotów. Stefan Wyszyński's closest associate for 20 long months was humiliated, subjected to beastly torture and mental harassment, which would lead to information incriminating Cardinal Wyszyński. Torture, which was subjected to Bishop. Baraniak, were thrilling even for people who knew the methods of communist repression: ripping off nails, keeping naked in an infamous darkroom, i.e. Cooled cell with wet floors and dripping water, often with fecals, beatings, which left traces in the form of 10 centimeters scars. The bishop held nearly 150 interviews, some of which lasted up to several hours. He did not break down, he did not succumb to pressure, so he thwarted the plans of the Communists, who just wanted to bring the trial to the Primate of Poland for counterrevolutionary activity and treason on the basis of his testimony. Archbishop Baraniak, despite the great suffering he was given, remained faithful and to death, i.e. On 13 August 1977, he served the Church and God. To Archbishop. The Lamb, who did not allow himself to be broken, kept his dignity by remaining faithful to himself and to his duty, should be honored and remembered. In the name of love for people and homeland, trusting in God's life, he never gave in to the Catholic communist security apparatus. Fr. Primate Wyszyński in his eulogy over the coffin archbishop. Baraniak said, "Bp Baraniak was imprisoned for me as a shield, for he was the subject of the main accusations and accusations, while I was saved in my isolation for three years. On the other hand, bishops were not spared. Anthony. He returned to Honeymoon in 1956 so destroyed that he never again rebuilt his psychophysical existence. The only way to find out what he suffered was from his cell mates. I figured that my relative peace in prison was due to him, because he took on as if the burden of the entire responsibility of the Primate of Poland. Archbishop rarely ever decided to share with other people memories from Rakowiecka. Trauma, like previous tortures, endured alone. Just before he died, the nun who looked after him only replied: "Sister, this suffering is nothing that was there in the prison on Rakowiecka. On the 40th anniversary of the death of a soldier of the steadfast Church, that his pastoral valor, great humility and merit should not only be known to God - in view of the above, the Club of Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution on the commemoration of Archbishops. Anthony Baraniak, soldier of the steadfast Church, on the 40th anniversary of his death. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u52	Archbishop Antoni Baraniak, bishop of the steadfast, hero, deserves to be fully remembered, therefore the Civic Platform Club supports this resolution. It is worth to bring the situation of the Polish Church closer at the time of Stalinism. The communist authorities fought decisively against the Church in the early autumn of 1947. They implemented it practically continuously until 1956. It ran parallel on two levels, and its repressive character gradually escalated. On the one hand, the communists sought to take control of the entire public life of the nation and eliminate the influence of the Church, which they justified was to serve social progress. On the other hand, they tried to penetrate the church structure, to turn it into another tool for enslavement of society with the help of obedient individuals. The authorities used various measures in this fight, ranging from legal and administrative forms to violence and murders. According to historians, by 1953 12 bishops were imprisoned or banished from their diocese, 4 priests were executed on the basis of judicial judgments, 37 priests were assassinated secretly, and 1 000. The priests were in custody and prisons. On 23 September 1953, the Primate of the Millennium was imprisoned on the basis of a resolution issued the day before by the Polish Government Bureau, which prohibited cardinals. Wyszynski performed the Primate's function and was present in Warsaw. It should be noted that this resolution was not signed by the Prime Minister or by any of his many alternates. Even then, you can see, the effects of the primate's internment were feared. The Primate thought that Bishop Antoni Baraniak would replace him in his duties, but a few hours later he was also detained. Bishop Antoni Baraniak spent over 2 years in a Mokotów prison on Rakowiecka. He was subjected to physical and psychological torture, which would lead to information incriminating Primate Wyszyński. Bishop Baraniak did not break down and succumb to the pressure, thus destroying the plans of the Communists who wanted to bring the trial to Primate Wyszynski based on his testimony. He's been interrogated 45 times, and 31 Security Officers have been working on his fracture. It is worth reminding here that many of his oppressors have never been punished and are still alive today. On the other hand, in 2011 the abuse proceedings were terminated. It has been curiosically justified that there is insufficient evidence to support the execution of this act. I think it's worth going back to this investigation. After the end of the prison, after he left prison, Archbishop Baraniak organized the Millennium Celebrations in 1966. During his ministry, the bishop ordained 519 diocesan priests and about 200 religious priests, and initiated 8 beatification and canonization processes. On October 23, 1960, he managed to close the diocesan process of today's blessed Edmund Bojanowski. Archbishop Baraniak died on 13 August 1977 at the age of 73. Cardinal. Wyszynski at the funeral said that Archbishop Baraniak was a shield for him. It fell on him, as the card said. Wyszyński - the main charges and charges, while I was saved in my isolation for three years. On the other hand, bishops were not spared. Anthony. Despite his steadfast attitude, Archbishop Baraniak remained a hero to a large extent unknown. An opportunity to remind him of his attitude was published in 2009 by the book "Baraniak" archbishop. Mark Jędraszewski, as well as the film by Jolanta Hajdash, Forgotten martyrdom. I would like to remind you that Bishop Baraniak took the words which clearly described his biography: "Give me the soul, take the rest of it, which concerned steadfastness both in life and in faith. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A tribute to the archbishop. The ram needs it. His life is like the price that true Polish patriots paid for the Polishness and faithfulness of national tradition. The Metropolitan Cracow Fr. Archbishop Marek Jędraszewski reminded us that if there were no archbishops in the history of Poland and the Polish Church. Baraniak, it would not be the Primate of the Millennium in Polish history - Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszynski, or perhaps also cardinals. Charles Wojtyla - St. Pope John Paul II. History would have been different, different ways, different dimensions. Archbishop's character. Baraniaka combines charisms of work and science, teaching and service and consistent fidelity of the idea of free, Christian Poland. It shows many dimensions of humanity and our normal human everyday civic duties. I would also like to remind you something important for me - Antoni Baraniak started his ministry in the Salesian novitiate in the Lower Kleča near Wadowice. He was the educator of the youngest candidates for the convent there. In the neighbouring Wadowice lived in those years Karol Wojtyła, who in the future became one of the close associates of Antoni Baraniak in the Polish Episcopate. Fr. Baraniak shared the fate of Poland and Poles in the most difficult times. During World War II, while in exile with Primate August Hlond, he informed the free world about German and Soviet crimes on the Polish nation. He sought the resurrection of Poland and its place among the countries of the anti-Hitler coalition. In the years of anti-human and anti-Christian communism he prepared and edited many documents of the Episcopate expressing protest against the enslavement of the country and communist dictatorship. Next to Archbishop. Wyszynski and archbishops. Wojtyła was one of the main authors of the program of commemorating the millennium of Poland's baptism, reminding that there would be no independent and important Polish statehood in Europe, had it not been for the sacrament of baptism adopted by Apartment I. The draft resolution is a good idea, but not quite precise. First of all, the title of the resolution should state that Archbishop Antoni Baraniak was a ruler of the Catholic Church. The resolution should commemorate the Archbishop himself on the 40th anniversary of his death, not the anniversary of his death. Moreover, in print no. 1673 is the wrong name of the Archbishop's birthplace: Sebastianowo, and should be Sebastianowo. Changes, although editorial, are important for the correctness of the resolution. They should be written in its final form, because the resolution is really important. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the resolution submitted by the acclamation following the editorial amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the club on the resolution on commemorating the 40th anniversary of the death of a soldier of the unbreakable Church. Antoni Baraniak was born in 1904 in Sebastianów, as it was said. He is the chaplain and secretary of the great Primates of Poland - August Hlond and Stefan Wyszyński. He supported Primate Hlond in the difficult times of World War II for the Church and nation. But paradoxically, the most difficult moments came in his life in the post-war period. On the night of 25 to 26 September 1953, he was arrested in parallel with Primate Wyszyński because he was the right hand of Cardinal Wyszyński. He went to the heaviest prison for political prisoners on the street. Rakowiecka in Warsaw. He went through the same path of torture as the soldiers who were cursed. He was taken care of by the same executioners who tortured the cursed soldiers. He was beaten, watered, interrogated over a hundred times in total. He was to be the main witness in the show trial that was being prepared against Primate Wyszynski. The aim of this process was to compromise the Primate and the Church in Poland. Let me remind you that such an objective was achieved by the communists in neighbouring countries, among others. in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Croatia. In Poland, this scenario is due to the bravery and steadfastness of archbishops. Baraniak has not been completed. Archbishop didn't bend, despite inhuman torture, he wasn't broken. Today we owe him memory and great gratitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u57	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party regarding the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Antoni Baraniak, a soldier of the Incorruptible Church. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party unanimously supports the content of the draft resolution. We are in favour of honoring a prominent priest, a great patriot, a man who had a significant influence on the history of Poland and the attitude of Poles. Archbishop Antoni Baraniak rightly has a nickname for the Church's steadfast soldier. During Stalinism, he survived the inhuman execution that lasted over two years, as a model of courage and fortitude for other prisoners. He never denied faith, always manifested fidelity to the Church, despite the torture he did not betray Primate Stefan Wyszyński. Archbishop Stanisław Gądecki summarized the life of Archbishop Stanisław Gądecki. The Lamb's words are: Without the heroic attitude of the archbishop. Baraniak is more than just The church would not protect itself from total enslavement, but there would also be no pope of the Pole. It should be risked to say that without a heroic priest there would also be no Poland in the European Union, or perhaps even Europe in its present form. Let us remind you that Archbishop Baraniak was a co-author and chief signatory of the message of Polish bishops to German bishops from 1965 with the future Pope Karol Wojtyla and Primate Wyszyński. This message began the process of reconciliation between the two nations and helped to destroy the order of the Soviet Empire. The words of this message also signed by bishops remain valid. Baraniak: In this very Christian, but also very human spirit, we extend our hands to you and grant forgiveness and ask for them. If there is good will on both sides, then serious dialogue must succeed and produce good fruit in time. The anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the death of this outstanding Pole should therefore be an opportunity to remind the whole of his heritage, such as the ability to forgive in the spirit of Christianity and the need for unity and consent in the name of a better future of his homeland. Archbishop Baraniak today is not only a personal role model of a steadfast priest, but also a prominent patriot, who in communism saw Poland as a strong country in the centre of Europe and a country surrounded by good neighborhood. Archbishop Baraniak, despite many merits, remained a humble man. He did not leave behind the writings, but the work of his life is still and must be remembered. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party fully joins the initiative to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the death of this outstanding Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u59	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Union of European Democrats does not question the heroism of Archbishop. Baraniak, it was already emphasized, it may be unknown widely, but among specialists is known, this attitude, on which there are just no words to evaluate it - the heroism of the tortured, beaten man in dungeons on Rakowiecka. And the primate, when he left Komańczyk, thanked Archbishop in one of the first speeches at Honeymoon. He's a dumb-ass. On the other hand, this resolution, the typical PiS-owska of course, is a resolution that actually... I'm sure there won't be an acclamation, it's clear, because someone here has said that. I'm sorry to point this out to you because you, Mr. Reporting Officer, represent the human face of the PiS. I know I'm gonna hurt you very much, I'm sure, but there's nothing I can do about it, so I'm judging you. On the other hand, first of all, I question the moral right of PiS to such resolutions, because Archbishop Baraniak fought for democratic Poland, Archbishop Baraniak fought for just Poland and for Poland, in which the Church is not used for political fighting. What are you doing? What right do you have? You organize these months of yours, which are desecration of the cross, you organize a lot of parties, you strip your opponents of dignity. Archbishop Baraniak didn't rob anyone of dignity, he didn't talk about treasonous murders, murderers, marketers, he didn't say that. And at the same time, you're introducing a resolution... [[What are you talking about?]] ...in which you give the title of a soldier of the unbreakable Church. Does the PiS decide who is a solid soldier of the Church? That's the church's decision now, isn't it, PiS? What the hell is that? What right does the PiS Sejm have to decide who is a solid soldier of the Church? Let the Church decide that. They already know it, they can do it without you. Well, it's a very basic issue. Once again, I apologize to those who think that to any extent what I say relates to the archbishop. Baraniak, because Bishop Baraniak didn't deserve such defenders. He had better ones, he'd find better defenders. But these monthlys, which are a great performance of the profanation of the cross in Poland... By the way, instead of police cover, police bitches, railings, instead of this shield, maybe Kaczyński in some elegant trunk. You're gonna move it? If it were cheaper to move from the church to Kaczyński's palace alone. And a couple of cops would go. And what terrible losses are there when police officers watch the protestors while thieves steal. That's why I'm making an amendment to Smolensk bullshit. The second point, on the other hand, is about this text. Gentlemen, this is not a resolution on Archbishop. Jędraszewski. It's not a resolution about the PiS chaplain, because that's more or less what he does. Just like the woods have their chaplain. Lately, he choked on a lynx. It's actually the incarnation of St. Francis of Assisi, the chaplain of the forest who strangled the wounded fox. It's about Archbishop. Jędraszewski... I don't have time anymore, just to remind you. Bishop Jędraszewski was polite to say that the white race is threatened in Europe. I don't recall anything about the white race in the Gospel. He was polite in this connection to lease the Łódź Cathedral to the ONR for manifestation. He was polite to tell Archbishop Jędraszewski that in Smolensk the plane crashed in the air, otherwise there would be a hole in the ground. And he was polite to say that the Nazis and the communists were better than gender ideology, because they respected gender difference, and gender ideology was blurring, and therefore Nazism and communism were better. Well, indeed, on the ramp in Oświęcim the gender difference, gender segregation was preserved, so in this respect the Nazis were better. And this man, Mr Jędraszewski, are you introducing this resolution? Is this a resolution about Mr Jędraszewski, your... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Bishop, yes, I'm sorry, oh, Bishop. Jędraszewski, your chaplain or the archbishop. You're a dumb-ass, aren't So in short, we are demanding that this paragraph be removed entirely from the bp. Jędraszewski from this resolution. Otherwise, around the European Union, the Democrats will vote against and there will be no acclamation in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u61	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! August 13th marks the 40th anniversary of the death of the steadfast priest archbishop. Anthony Baraniak, who remained faithful to the rules until the end. His courageous, tireless attitude was not shaken by two years of imprisonment and brutal torture against him. Archbishop Marek Jędraszewski said that if it were not for Archbishop Baraniak and his relentless attitude, there would be no return of Primate Wyszynski to Warsaw after the period of imprisonment. Without Primate Wyszynski, there would be no Cardinal Wojtyla and then John Paul. II. To sum up, the history of the Church in Poland, Europe and the world would have been completely different, in a way that we today find difficult to imagine. And behind all this is this relentless, silent figure of a man who did not bow back then, did not break down and - as the Primate himself said - took on his shoulders the responsibility of the Primate for the Church in Poland. The most shocking aspect of history, archbishop. The Lamb, however, is the fact that his oppressors live mostly until today and have never responded for what they did to the clergyman. In 2011, the investigation into abuse was terminated due to a lack of sufficient evidence of the act being committed. The Ubeks, who, according to the documents of the investigation, conducted the case, laughing in the face of the justice system, testified that for the first time they heard the name of the Archbishop. They claimed that they had not taken part in any hearings and denied the signature of the protocols. If it were not for the high resorting pensions charged for service in the UB, they would certainly deny that they had anything to do with this institution. It's not surprising that the officers of the terror camera lie. However, it is shocking that the modern institutions of justice give them faith. Archbishop's case. Baraniaka is another proof of how pathological the state was the Third Republic of Poland and how much more needs to be changed in order for Poland to finally be a really free, normal country. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the resolution commemorating the 40th anniversary of the death of archbishops. Anthony Baraniak, a steadfast soldier of the Church. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u63	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Robert Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to make it clear to Mr Brynkus that the title of the resolution is: "On commemorating Archbishop Antoni Baraniak, a soldier of the steadfast Church, on the 40th anniversary of death." This title was changed during work in committee. I would also like to thank the clubs who declared their support for this draft resolution from this point of view. As for the statement made by Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, let me leave her without comment, because she simply does not deserve a comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u65	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 40 hrs. 10 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016 (prints No 1650 and 1707). I ask Mr Piotr Pyzik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Marshal has just said, I would like to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the agreement establishing the European Union's international foundation - the Latin American and Caribbean countries, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016, prints 1650 and 1707. The proposed project concerns the creation of a foundation as an international organisation aimed at strengthening the partnership process between the Member States of the European Union and the Community countries of the Latin American and Caribbean States, with increased civil society participation, encouraging further strengthening knowledge and understanding between regions, carrying out activities to expose both regions and international partnerships. For the European Union, the priority remains to deepen the strategic partnership with Brazil and Mexico, with which they maintain the formula for the organisation of summits at the highest level. Brazil and Argentina are key countries in the context of the negotiated Association Agreement with Mercosur. Preparations are underway with Mexico and Chile to modernise their association agreements in order to open new areas of cooperation. The strengthening of relations with the European Union is of interest to countries such as Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, which have already negotiated free trade agreements (MTAs) with the European Union. In addition, Colombia and Chile have signed a framework agreement on participation in European Union crisis operations, which may encourage other countries in the region. A strengthened political relationship with the European Union has also established a trust fund for Colombia for the reconstruction of post-conflict regions. The Latin American and Caribbean countries are an important partner for the European Union at multilateral level, especially within the framework of the united nations. The Latin American and Caribbean countries very often share the European Union's interest in foreign policy issues and international security and global problems resolution, for example. on climate change, migration or drugs. The European Union aims to strengthen the dimension of people-to-people contacts with Latin American and Caribbean countries, for example, the activities of the foundation we are talking about today, as well as programmes such as Erasmus+ and research programmes, implemented through the development aid of the European Union, i.e. e.g. Horizon 2020. In 2016, the Foundation received the status of an international organisation. The Foundation of the European Union and Latin American countries with the status of an international organisation is seen as a tool for the European Union's foreign policy and the Member States of the European Union towards the Latin American and Caribbean region. Member States are gaining an instrument that will enable them to coordinate their activities more effectively with regard to this area of the world. In view of gaining the status of an international organisation by the European Union Foundation and Latin American countries, Poland will be able to consider the possibility of making a voluntary contribution to the development of the Foundation. The funds transferred to the Foundation will be able to be linked to specific projects notified by the Polish website. Due to the fact that the Foundation's activities include among others. organizations of seminars, workshops, exhibitions, publications, etc., the Polish website will be able to use the know-how of the foundation. In addition, as the foundation can take initiatives, among others. In cooperation with international regional public, private institutions, the Polish side may consider the participation of public entities, e.g. Polish Institute of International Affairs, in the projects of the mentioned foundation. Furthermore, this foundation can be used as a platform for cooperation with Latin American and Caribbean countries, especially those with which Poland has not developed bilateral relations so far. This applies both to the Caribbean and Paraguay, Uruguay, Guatemala and Honduras. The Foundation envisages involving civil society and other social actors in carrying out tasks aimed at strengthening the partnership process between the two regions: the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean and the European Union. This creates the possibility to participate Polish non-governmental entities in Foundation initiatives. As regards the economic impact, the promotion of political dialogue and cooperation between Latin American and Caribbean countries and the European Union, which will enable the European Union and its Member States to investigate their interests in the framework of the bi-regional partnership, will contribute to strengthening relations between our regions in an economic way. Financial implications. It must be acknowledged that the project under consideration after its entry into force will not result in direct financial burdens. On the other hand, the financial resources that have so far been earmarked for this purpose will be allocated within the current expenditure limit without requesting additional funding from the State budget. Social impact. The establishment of the European Union Foundation - Latin American and Caribbean countries as an international organisation will make better use of financial and human resources, which will contribute to the efficiency of achieving its objectives, among others. acquiring and offering new contact opportunities, especially for those persons and institutions which are not familiar with the regional partnership for these two regions. Here, too, the issue of social impact on the Polish community, which lives in Latin America and the Caribbean, is an important element. As you know, 40% our nation lives on emigration without any Polish document. The space of Latin America and the Caribbean is at least 2 million Poles. If I say that in Brazil alone there are about 2,300 and 2,400 thousand. People in Argentina, about 300,000, we know that this 2 million is really the minimum. And a very important issue of bonding. It is about the method of binding Poland with this agreement. Due to the mixed nature of the agreement, resulting from the competences of the European Union and its Member States as defined in the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the entry into force of the Agreement requires an appropriate procedure to consent to its binding in the Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Poland. Since the agreement creates an international intergovernmental organisation with legal personality and legal capacity, it shall be ratified with the prior consent of the law, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 3 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In view of the above, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 5 July 2017, requests the High Sejm to adopt draft legislation on printing No 1650 without amendments. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u67	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International EU-LAC Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. The Agreement establishes an EU-LAC International Foundation, which aims to strengthen the partnership between the European Union and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, to encourage further understanding and understanding between regions with enhanced involvement of civil society, and to promote and coordinate joint action between the two parties to the Agreement. The ratification of the agreement, and consequently its implementation, is part of the policy of the Republic of Poland in the area of expanding the areas of cooperation and supporting political dialogue in the Latin American and Caribbean region. As a result, this will strengthen relations with the region, especially in the economic context. Moreover, thanks to the establishment of the Foundation, Poland will be able to strengthen cooperation with those countries with which there is no more developed bilateral relationship, such as Paraguay, Guatemala, El Salvador or Honduras. The region of Latin America and the Caribbean is inhabited by a large number of Polonia, about 2 million people of Polish origin, who have the potential to play a significant role in developing special relations between countries. Many of them have important state functions, make up a significant part of the middle class, run companies or own them. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u69	Thank you. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting the position of the club in relation to the bill on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. Poland has traditionally maintained good political relations with Latin American and Caribbean countries, although it must be stressed that it does not treat the countries of the region as leading partners. This is not only from a distance, but also from the history of these contacts. Nevertheless, what we are doing and can continue to do successfully with the prospect of political and economic effects for Poland is to participate in the implementation and development of the European Union's policy towards the region. The European Union Foundation - Latin American and Caribbean countries with the status of an international organisation is such a tool for the European Union's and Member States' foreign policy towards the region. Since the foundation can take initiatives, implement projects from a wide range of actors and cooperate with international and regional public and private institutions, Poland should already consider the continued participation of Polish public entities in foundation initiatives such as. The Polish Institute of International Affairs or the Pułaski Foundation, promoting the transatlantic partnership, including the countries of South America. We should strive for PISM to become a strategic partner of the Foundation as soon as possible alongside the four initial strategic partners. At the same time, we should remember that this could be an instrument for a greater connection with Poland of a large Polish population estimated at about 2 million people who admit to Polish origin, which can help develop contacts between Polish societies and countries of the region. The entry into force of the agreement will not result in direct financial burdens on the budget of the Republic of Poland. It would be worth considering, however, the allocation of voluntary, even symbolic contributions to the foundation, which could help Poland and Polish entities to effectively implement Polish political and economic interests in the framework of the Foundation's projects. Given that ratification of the agreement establishing the foundation is part of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards the Latin American and Caribbean region, aimed at promoting political dialogue and expanding the areas of cooperation, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u71	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is in fact the consent of the Polish Sejm authorising the President to ratify the agreement establishing the International EU-LAC Foundation. The Agreement is the result of long-term cooperation between the countries of the European Union and Latin American and Caribbean countries. The agreement was made in Santo Domingo on 25 October last year. The result of this cooperation between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean was the proposal to set up an inter-regional foundation to strengthen the partnership and launch a debate on common strategies to address inter alia problems. with climate change, migration or the fight against drugs. At the 6th summit held in Madrid in 2010, the Heads of State and Government decided to set up this foundation, which sets itself as the objectives: to contribute to strengthening the partnership processes providing for the participation and contribution of civil society and other social actors, to encourage further mutual understanding and understanding between regions, to work towards enhancing the mutual visibility of regions and to the partnership itself. This foundation was formally established in 2011 in Hamburg as an entity of German civil law, but until the conclusion of an international founding agreement that would transform the foundation into an international organisation, which is exactly what we are talking about today. The establishment of this foundation as an international organisation will increase its capacity not to obtain funding from participating countries, many of which are unable to make financial contributions to it as long as it remains subject to German civil law. By acquiring the status of an international organisation, the Foundation will be able to reduce certain costs, enjoy diplomatic immunities and privileges under international law and make better use of its financial and human resources. This in turn will enable it to maintain and further develop actions to support the partnership. This agreement focuses on the partnership of the countries involved, and the design and functioning framework clearly shows that the foundation is to perform the task of a body facilitating the exchange of information and establishing valuable diplomatic contacts. Latin America is a huge and dynamically growing market. The foundation is also an opportunity for Polish business. Economic issues are also of interest to the Foundation. What is important, please countries, the funding of the Foundation will be based on voluntary contributions from members and funds that it will raise itself. The Foundation does not give us any tangible and immediate benefits, but it has the potential to become a perfect place for diplomatic cooperation between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean. Therefore, Kukiz15 will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 October 2016, 46 countries signed an agreement to establish an international foundation of the European Union with Latin American and Caribbean countries in Santo Domingo. Austria also signed this Agreement in February 2017. The aim of the agreement is to create a foundation as an international organisation, and consequently it will acquire legal personality, which is highly important and undoubtedly extends its field of activity and allows for an increase in the areas of its possible initiatives. This will facilitate funding from Member States. This will also reduce some costs and allow for the exercise of diplomatic immunities and privileges. This agreement is of great importance and multifaceted importance for all the countries of the Community, including our country. Its conclusion highlights the role of the European Union's partnership with Latin American and Caribbean countries. The functioning of the Foundation will have a positive impact on the strengthening of diplomatic relations between Europe and these countries. Poland, which will have the opportunity to establish relations with countries with which it has not yet had them, or to develop those which already exist, can benefit from this. Economic relations are a very important element. The Foundation can undoubtedly become a platform for intercontinental cooperation. It is assumed that research and analysis will be carried out within the framework of its activities on issues which are in the area of the partnership. Nor can we ignore the fact that cooperation within the organisation will allow for closer human and cultural relations, because, as rightly indicated in the explanatory memorandum, many people of Polish origin live in the Latin American region and the Caribbean region. The Republic of Poland will be able to decide on the amount of the contribution allocated to the development of the organisation, and the funds transferred will be available for the specific purpose proposed by our country, i.e. Poland will be able to finance what is in its interest. In addition, national NGOs will be able to participate actively in the activities of the Foundation. The Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u75	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who have worked on this project, all those who have contributed to the fact that there is unanimity here in the Chamber on this issue. And paraphrasing Huntington, we have a chance, because this bill, this project, gives us this opportunity, to meet another civilization in beauty and in harmony, with good for us and for them. I think this is the beginning of a new adventure for our country and our citizens. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u77	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. In fact, the committees submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the Medical University in Łódź. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016, prints 1693 and 1754, will not be considered today. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases (prints 1807 and 1810). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases, 1807 and 1810 prints. The main objective of the proposed law is to provide funding for the implementation of the Bioinsurance Programme to prevent the spread of African swine fever in the following year. The bioinsurance programme itself was introduced by a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of 3 April 2015 on the introduction of a bioinsurance programme aimed at preventing the spread of African swine fever for 2015 and 2018 and was subsequently amended in the following years, i.e. 2016 and 2017. The bill cited indicates among others. maximum expenditure limits from the State budget for actions foreseen under the implementation of the bioinsurance programme, i.e. the payment of compensation and compensation for the continued maintenance of pigs on the holding. The current figure for 2017 provides for compensation payments of PLN 7 million and for compensation of PLN 3 658 500. Following the change in the epizootic situation in 2017 with regard to African swine fever, there was a need to extend the area in which the bioinsurance programme is implemented to prevent the spread of African swine fever. This was reflected in the revised bioinsurance program, which was extended by new powiats of Podlaskie, Mazowieckie and Lublin Voivodships. Hence, the proposed much higher amounts are intended to provide financial resources for the payment of compensation and compensation for the years 2017 to 2018. The proposed changes will allow for a smooth implementation of the bioinsurance programme and thus reduce the likelihood of further spread of African swine fever between holdings where pigs are kept by significantly reducing the population of animals of species susceptible to the disease in endangered areas. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development without a vote of opposition recommends that the High House adopt a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u79	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. The proposed project is another draft from the series of laws on the control of infectious animal diseases, including in particular African swine fever, a disease which has such a great economic but social impact in Poland and spread. The disease hits our agriculture, and the most important link is farmers. A strict bioinsurance programme is essential to prevent the spread of the disease. This includes, among others, the need to secure holdings with a suitable fence, to teach disinfection mats, to control rodents, to keep records of means of transport entering the farm, to ensure that persons who come into contact with pigs on the holding do not keep their pigs outside that holding, and to provide additional support for pigs on other holdings so that outsiders do not enter the buildings in which the pigs are kept. All this, of course, generates costs and not all farmers can do it. Those farmers who cannot adapt their holdings to the bioinsurance programme have the opportunity to make a statement to the district veterinarian that they will not meet the requirements set out in this programme. In accordance with the bioinsurance programme, the holder of the pigs shall be entitled to compensation for the animals killed or slaughtered or compensation for the continued maintenance of the pigs on the holding. It is clear that such farmers cannot remain without State aid. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the proposed amendment to the Law protecting measures for farmers and, of course, we will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u81	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko of Kukiz.15 presented the position of the club in writing. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern. There is no Member. Mrs Margaret... No, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is another one that the government has presented and has prepared to mitigate or prevent the effects of African swine fever. On the other hand, we are looking at a negative date - and place - when this law was submitted, because it should have been prepared much earlier, at a time when a whole package of changes was presented a few weeks ago, when we said, also from this speaker, that these actions are insufficient. At that time, due to the scale of the disease's development, the budget had to be moved, more money had to be allocated. Nevertheless - seeing, unfortunately, the failure of the Ministry of Agriculture, the whole government to combat the ASF and its effects, which we could experience yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture, when a huge number of farmers who arrived expressed their negative views on the government's action in this area - the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, seeing the need to allocate funds, will support this project. At the same time, we considered the possibility of making an amendment which would involve even more resources both for compensation and for mitigating the effects of bioinsurance, compensation for farmers, but - as has so far been often the case - all the opposition amendments have been rejected. Later, he verified that we were right in these amendments. So we don't want to replicate it again. We believe that these amounts are too small today, because as we see the progress of the disease, it is necessary to expect further outbreaks, further cases and further losses for Polish farmers in the coming weeks and months, so this amount will certainly not be enough and at some point we will be updating this law again. However, for today the parliamentary club supports this law, because today it is essential for farmers to receive anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u83	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. The main objective of this draft law is to provide financial resources for the implementation of the last third edition of the bioinsurance programme, which is to prevent the spread of African swine fever. Farms which are unable to comply with the bioinsurance rules shall receive compensation and compensation in return for the removal and withdrawal from pig farming for a continuous period of 2 years. It is a good and, above all, a fair solution, which gives us the opportunity to survive during the period of cessation of production. A large number of declared derogations from pig farming necessitates an increase in cash for compensation and compensation. In my opinion, this need is not open to discussion. We must remember that the amended law provides financial support for those farms where African swine fever has occurred. It is also important to take into account that the proposed changes will allow the implementation of the bioinsurance programme, which will therefore reduce the likelihood of the spread of fever, and in this particular situation this should be our priority. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u85	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u86	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much. I'm late. I'm sorry. Dear Minister, Honourable Members and Messengers! The proposed law does not change the rules, but only increases the amounts for compensation and compensation for the elimination of pig farming. So far, the expenditure limit for this purpose has been 7 million for compensation payments and 3658 thousand. PLN for compensation. Now it is to be 21.5 million and 8 million respectively for the years 2017 and 2018. Of course, we support an increase in quotas, but these actions, i.e. one-off compensation, are far too little. Action to combat African swine fever is crucial to the current problems in agriculture. I'm sure all parliamentarians will agree with that. The most worrying are the lack of effects and still emerging new ASF outbreaks. The most important and effective way to fight ASF is to respect the principles of bioinsurance and, unfortunately, the government's actions are far from sufficient. Effective bioinsurance is only possible in larger farms. Unfortunately, too low compensation for not keeping pigs on the farm gives little interest to farmers with small farms. In the view of farmers, the compensation currently offered to farmers for not keeping pigs in the areas at risk of ASF is too low. The compensation amounts are unlikely to encourage production to be discontinued. African swine fever first appeared in February 2014. Now the ASF virus is approaching areas where the pig sector is of great importance. It is necessary to develop effective methods for the isolation of breeding pigs from possible pathogens. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development launched a strengthened bioinsurance programme on 15 July 2017. Cooperation with livestock farmers must be based on helping livestock farmers prepare their farms for the fight against the ASF and in adapting their farms to the strict requirements. For many farmers who are to give up pig farming, this is a dramatic situation because compensation is granted once and finding a new job can be very difficult or almost impossible in some areas. The agricultural OPZZ plans to create an online platform through which direct food sales can be carried out. In this way farmers try to help themselves to sell products produced on the farm. None of the measures taken so far to stop the virus have been effective. Also wild boars. To this day, there is no scientific evidence that the introduction of a year-round wild boar shot will result in the inhibition of the spread of African swine fever. And there's no telling how many wild boars would have to be killed to stop the virus from spreading. Even Dr. Podgórski, whose research was referred to by the Ministry of the Environment, admitted that his research did not indicate anything like that. There are studies from the Institute of Mammals' Biology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which show that in areas where wild boars were intensively hunted, the movement of these animals increased. Wild men fleeing the blast migrate, the more they carry the disease. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment should be sure that they do not make a mistake by introducing an increasingly intensified wildfire. In turn, killing the entire wild boar population will not be left without a negative impact on forest ecosystems and this cannot be allowed. The amounts proposed in this project will not allow effective action. Maybe instead of spending millions on ridiculous billboards, it is worth effectively controlling the spread of ASF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u87	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on printing No. 1807 amending the Law on Animal Health and the fight against infectious animal diseases. This is another amendment that we are making in this House due to the tragic situation of the spread of African swine fever in Poland. African swine fever is a very dangerous infectious disease, which is not a treatment but an obligation to fight for itself. The state is obliged to fight this disease by its own authority. And this is the next stage of work and struggle: you have made an amendment to us, which in general consists of only two points, an increase in the limit of money for compensation and compensation. What are compensations and what compensations? Compensation is compensation for pigs which must be slaughtered, compensation is financial aid to farmers who either decide not to raise them and sign such an undertaking or lose their benefits in connection with the possible non-breeding of those animals. Bioinsurance is one of the most important elements of the fight against ASF. The minister talked about it on the committee, we all know it. The problem is that, despite 2 years of struggle, implementation of bioinsurance programs, countless teams, we have over 90 outbreaks at that time, i.e. places where the disease appeared in pigs - not in wild boars, but in pigs. Since it appeared in pigs, this means measurable financial losses for breeders, mainly for small farmers most often affected by this, because it is difficult to maintain bio-insurance in their farms. Bioinsurance is not only the distribution of mats, but large rigors as to the appropriate method of fence of the farm, which can ensure safety, non-viality of the virus. It is this programme that is intended to serve this purpose, and it is in this programme that the state is proposing to us the idea of allocating €8 million to compensation, not $7 million so far, and to raise compensation resources to €21 million. A noble goal, of course, is necessary, but in my opinion it is absolutely not enough. The amount of resources that is needed to combat this disease is enormous. I think the ministry should make sure that the money for fighting this disease is more abundant. As we heard in the committee yesterday, these are insufficient sums for both farmers and for inspections that are working to combat this disease and have staff shortages linked to low wages, but also the failure to pay them in particular areas. We believe that these amounts are too small, although we will vote as a Civic Platform club in favour of this project, because it serves farmers, it serves the ability to pay money to farmers. However, it deserves to be condemned that despite the sincere desire, despite many legal changes, despite the fact that the opposition is trying to help in the fight against this disease, the disease is spreading, and the fight between ministers, between the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture, is increasing the spread of this disease. The problem of wild boars being shot away, the problem of constant inability to deal with the Minister of the Environment and the problem of not adopting the Law on Hunting Law, which would clearly change the state's attitude towards hunting circles, which would be obliged to make changes in this respect, cause all this to spread. And since it spreads and there's no money, there's no education, and there's a bonfire spreading. Let me stress once again - we have 97 bonfires. We are actually a country that in the eastern part is deprived of the possibility of breeding pigs and exporting them. I have a big request to the Minister to consider, however, the question of asking Minister Morawiecki to grant more funds to fight this very dangerous disease, which can lead to the fact that pork in our country will come from imports. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am of the opinion that we will vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u89	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. I invite Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform. [[Who? Me?]] Madam.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the government is spending more and more money on the fight against swine fever, the virus is systematically moving towards Wielkopolska, and this is a new area. We've already had over 90 fires, and when the PiS took over, there were only three. That is because so far the government has not fought so much against the disease as it wanted to compensate farmers for their losses. Here, in this bill, no solutions are foreseen. We're just talking about more money, so what's the solution, ladies and gentlemen? And maybe I'd like to ask you a little bit about the other side. Tell me if that's true - because you don't want to believe - that the government will build a fence on the border with Belarus so that no wild boar from those regions can get through to us. So some innovative solutions this government is introducing. What is this absurdity for which Poles are to pay PLN 130 million? Please confirm that this is true. Because to me, that's an absurd solution. The virus in feral pigs occurs not only in Belarus, but also in Ukraine, also in the Baltic countries. You guys gonna put fences in there too? What's the solution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u91	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Does the Ministry provide for aid for the re-breeding of pigs by farms which have eradicated breeding and have waived the rearing of pigs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u93	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Ms Ewa Lech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to answer, and there's actually only two questions. But before I answer, I'm gonna say yes. You all estimate that the amount of funds planned in this Act is too small. I would like to say that this amount of resources results from the number of applications submitted, the declarations of accession to the programme. This number of holdings with a certain number of pigs has been notified to the programme. This number of animals that will be slaughtered has been multiplied by the amount of compensation and this is where the amount came from. We could not ask for more than the declared number covered by the production closure process to be clear. So we can discuss whether this is much or little, but in order to implement this third edition of the program, this amount of resources is sufficient. The question was, is it true that the government would build a fence? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is a preliminary recommendation from the Economic Committee to make such a fence. There are a lot of different opinions, but the recommendation is to build a fence. An inter-ministerial team was formed to assess, conduct and analyse economics, and analyse the possibility of building such a fence, because we have a problem with the fact that part of the border runs in the middle of the river, that private areas reach the border. It's not that easy. So that's how it is for now. By the end of September, it will be decided whether such a fence will be built or not, so today I am unable to say it. But as you could see, opinions are very divided here - some are for, some are against. Farmers absolutely opt for a fence like this. The decision is to be made whether the opinion is to be delivered on this subject by the end of September. It was Mrs Zwierzan's question whether the Ministry provides for aid for the resumption of production. I think it's premature for me to talk about it right now. Our goal is to deal with ASF first and foremost. Will it be enough time for this by the end of next year, that I am not able to declare. I wish that were true. It may be necessary to extend the operation of this programme and to finance the cessation of production, but it would be premature. If necessary, necessity, because, of course, we are interested in maintaining the production of pigs, then such aid will certainly be triggered. Today is premature. Perhaps there will be an extended edition of the program, but we are talking here about 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u95	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u96	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present a position regarding the government's draft law amending the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. The aim of the project is to provide funding for the implementation of the Bioinsurance Programme to prevent the spread of African swine fever for the period 2015 to 2018, introduced by the Regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of 3 April 2015. Poland has been fighting African swine fever for over 3 years. It must be made clear that he is fighting very unsuccessfully, since we regularly learn about further outbreaks. Last year, the Sejm adopted several laws, which were supposed to be a rescue, to help fight the disease - and to continue with the mediocre effect. The government has already spent huge amounts of money to stop the spread of ASF and to compensate farmers, and the end of the problem cannot be seen. It should be stressed that a number of restrictive and extremely costly obligations have been imposed on farmers for which severe fines have been imposed for non-compliance. There have been problems with overgrown pigs and, consequently, financial problems for farmers. For the pig farmers present at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, it is obvious that we will not be able to deal with the ASF until we have rid the entire population of boars east of the Vistula. On the need for a complete eradication of the wild boar population and the need to build a fence at the eastern border I appealed many times more than a year ago. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is very late in implementing the demands I have put forward, arguing this unlawfulness, e.g. when it comes to the use of night vision and thermal cameras and the shooting of wild boars in reserves and parks, or the unjustifiedness of investments, as the Deputy Minister of Agriculture argued during one of the meetings of the agricultural committee, and after two weeks Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel announced an epochary discovery - a fence on the eastern border will be built. This is irresponsible. There can be no agreement to tolerate late actions which cause serious financial losses, lead to the elimination of pig farming in Poland, and in the long term also to the collapse of numerous farms. In conclusion, the contested law provides financial resources for the implementation of the bioinsurance programme and this is necessary, but late for a few years. As a representative of the Kukiz Club15 and the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I am calling for measures ahead, not to continue to follow the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u97	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 33 hrs. 11 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Packaging Management and Packaging Waste and certain other laws (prints No. 1730 and 1809). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees dealt with this bill yesterday. Several amendments were made during the work. Some of them concerned the sealing of the system and the provisions that were in force in the packaging economy, some of which were intended to eliminate the irregularities that existed there, and they were adopted, while some of the amendments concerned provisions relating to the recycling levy itself, both the maximum amount contained in the draft law and the date of implementation of that law and the place to which recycling fees would be charged. Following the adoption of these amendments which concerned, let's call it yes, sealing the system, the Commission rejected the amendments concerning the recycling levy. Both committees ask for the proposed law to be adopted together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u99	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we said at the first reading, the bill contains two essential parts. The one, which is the most publicized and with which Poles probably got acquainted most, concerns a new element in the system, i.e. the so-called. recycling charges. It is a fee that is intended to discourage consumers from using disposable plastic bags, which at the moment are used massly, not only by Poles, but also around the world. These bags are then very difficult to recycle, to withdraw from the system. They pollute our environment, get into the ground, into the waters, are consumed by animals. Their decomp takes, as some claim, even a few hundred years. Therefore, the European Commission in the 2015 Directive recommended a very serious reduction in the use of such bags and to provide the European Commission with information on how large the number of bags used in each country is. So far, we don't have all the data on how big the number and scale it is. There are estimates indicating that Poles consume between 200 and 300 disposable bags on average each year, but please note that this is a very inaccurate estimate, because if we multiply this by the number of people in our country, we have a discrepancy from about 700 million bags used per year to over 1 billion. So the scale is huge, but it lacks precise terms. So far, several European Union countries have adopted similar laws that introduce one-off bags charges to limit their use and switch to re-use bags, which are much longer used, for example. cotton or other materials. It turned out that such a solution was quite effective, in most countries it resulted in a very large reduction in the use of plastic bags, in some countries by up to 90%. We do not know if this will happen in Poland, but we will have to try. Hence, the draft law provides that the Ministry, by regulation, can ultimately decide on the amount of the recycling levy. The maximum amount that the Act will provide for is 1 PLN, but as announced by the Ministry of Environment, this fee should initially not exceed 20 gr. Such a request was made by opposition parties as an amount which should be recorded in the Act. We do not know if this amount is sufficient, perhaps it will have to be raised in the future. In order not to have to amend the law, the joint committees decided that this amount should remain in this project. It should also be made clear that, contrary to what some Members of the opposition parties say, this is not a tax invented by the Government of Law and Justice. This is a clear implementation of the law imposed by the European Union, which requires a limited process and one of the elements is the recycling levy. She's not compulsive, you have to pay attention to that. Each of us as a consumer has the right to choose: either he will have his own shopping bag, a basket that many of us carry, or he will want to pay for a single-use bag. This fee is only meant to discourage it. We hope that this will be an environmental effect and that this environmental effect was in fact agreed. However, a few sentences need to be said about this second part of the law, equally important, but perhaps less propaganda-bearing, referring to the sealing of the waste management system. Perhaps this is the element that is less perceived by ordinary citizens, but has a very important impact on what will happen in waste management in Poland, because it is intended to lead to the elimination of unfair market participants, those who do not fully recover goods and packaging from the market, rather by falsifying documentation trying to prove that such activities are being carried out. This will facilitate the achievement of adequate recovery and recycling levels by municipalities in the future and will avoid penalties being paid to the European Union budget, and will therefore translate into the fact that the prices paid by residents for the export of impurities should not increase significantly. These sealing elements, contrary to the concerns of some Members, do not impose too much responsibility on the Marshals of voivodships, but, on the contrary, facilitate their control of the waste management market, give them specific powers to check whether the reports that entrepreneurs are submitting are actually reflected, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and allow real penalties to be imposed. There was a slight legislative inaccuracies, a provision that we would like to clarify, and that is why we will make an amendment. Of course, we propose that we adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u101	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u102	Dear country, the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act is very important from a social point of view and of course we understand the need to bring Polish law into line with EU law. It's pretty obvious. By making the amendments mentioned earlier by a colleague of Mr Piontkowski, I intended to show and expose hypocrisy, which follows the introduction of this law in the planned version. Namely, we have pointed out that so far we are talking in the Ministry's regulation about 20 gr per bag. The burden of the Polish society with such a fee is only an announcement, it is not a fact made and you actually admit that this fee may increase. When I proposed this amendment, I wanted to show that a policy of imposing huge charges on Poles cannot be pursued without consulting them. Please note that the state has not had any discussion with the public over two years of government. Those whom you call today the social side that participated in the discussions in the subcommittee or in the deliberations of the environmental committee are none other than representatives of entrepreneurs, the main ones interested in the changes in this law. The fact that this bill seals the system, and very well. The first problem that we have highlighted is the inconsistency of the ministry in terms of this price. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if the mandatory fee is 20 gr, when at the moment some shops, whether large or smaller, still charge a person shopping there with a purse fee and this is at the moment their profit, what will happen after a mandatory fee is introduced in the amount similar to that which shops are currently counting? It will become apparent that their profits will most likely have to be transferred to other products. So they're gonna put a few pennies in the bread, whether they're selling coffee, any product, so that their profits aren't compromised in this situation. My dears! I would be willing and my club would be willing to even agree to higher stakes, but if we'd preceded the social debate. The next amendment we tabled was where the money from this fee would follow. Namely, you have written that you will go directly to the central budget. We have requested that they go to the national environmental fund, so that they will be used later precisely to build awareness and educate the public, for example to build sorting infrastructure in smaller towns, smaller municipalities, where it is most difficult for this awareness in our society. Unfortunately, it is at a very low level and we see this, for example, after the level of smog pollution during the winter period of each year, because unfortunately a very large part of society still smokes plastic, burns waste in their furnaces, which, of course, affects the health of society. So I'm going to make an amendment again in a moment, and I'm going to ask that these moneys go to the national environmental fund, not that it's eaten over to the needs of a government that keeps making further promises of distribution and lack of policy... fiscal responsibility. The last amendment is an amendment which refers to the time of entry into force of this law. Namely, we request that it enter from 1 January 2019 when it is required and not, as provided for by the Act, 1 January 2018, because this is further proof that nothing else is at stake, but that the money that will flow in a year, i.e. around March 2019, simply strengthens the budget. There will be an election period, you will make further promises to the voters and you will use it, at worst, 250 million, but if you amend the regulation and raise this rate, this rate could be much higher. Thus, the 20 gr announced by you in general will not solve this problem. Education. Education, education of society - that's the most important thing. That is why I again make three amendments, mentioned earlier, to your marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u103	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government's draft law on amending the Package Management Act and amending some other laws, print no. 1730. The packaging economy, in practice its collection, recovery and recycling is a very good interest for entrepreneurs engaged in this activity. The underlying assumptions are acceptable to society even if it incurs financial costs. In the case of the proposed law, it would be most cumbersome to introduce a high rate of charge for the use of plastic bags when shopping for individual customers. The proposed price range is quite large because it amounts from 20 gr to 1 PLN. This may shock you, which is why it would be possible to adopt a uniform rate at a low level. However, the high rate has an educational value, which is important for environmental protection and forces the use of ecological, not too burdensome materials for the production of packaging for shopping. However, this solution cannot be applied in all cases. However, it is worth to calculate the unit price of foil packaging in such a way as to maintain a balance between environmental attitudes and the costs of implementing them, if not in the law, in ministerial regulations. The second important issue of the economy aimed at protecting the environment is that sometimes due to a bureaucratic approach in a non-reflective manner transposing EU law in Poland, there are various types of irregularities, statistical fictions and even crimes. I talked about this during the session of the Sejm committee in the context of the collection of timber packaging, with signals from entrepreneurs involved in the recovery and recycling of such packaging. It welcomes the fact that this is also noted by the Ministry of the Environment, which responds to such signals and introduces appropriate solutions, as applied in this law. Undoubtedly, the weakness of the contested law is that it recognises the state budget as a recipient of the recycling levy and should be a fund for environmental protection and water management of the voivodship in which the company in charge of the recovery and recycling of packaging operates. After all, it is in some sense a burdensome activity for a given area and should constitute the income of the voivodship contributing to its development. It is worth accepting this amendment from the Ministry of the Environment. After all, after changes in the subject matter of the voivodship of environmental and water management funds, a representative of the central authority will decide on the allocation of funds from this purpose. An additional argument for such a recipient of the recycling levy is the fact that the marshal of a given voivodship is entitled to check the correct implementation of the law. Finally, however, a general remark should be added, with which all present in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry agreed. The practice of implementing EU law in Poland in the field of environmental protection, probably as in many other areas, is very chaotic. The regulations regulate some part of reality, and others not only destabilize, but also create conditions for non-legal activities. This is often explained by the legitimate argument that this is due to the negligence of the previous ruling team. This argument could be regarded as valid at the beginning of the term of office of that authority, but we are already reaching its halfway point and this argument is being missed. In general, however, Kukiz15 is in favour of this procedated law, which aims to significantly reduce the pollution of the environment by foliar waste. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u105	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u106	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The maximum fee for plastic bags recorded in the bill is 1 zł, symbolic amount. It is understandable that in order for the new regulations to have a significant impact on the reduction in the use of plastic bags and to encourage consumers to use the re-use bags mentioned here by the Minister, this rate cannot be too low. However, the amount of 1 PLN is definitely inadequate for Poles' earnings. The Ministry declares that this will be 20 gr in the regulation, but it is to remain a zloty in the act, as finally decided by the PiS Members during the committee's work, rejecting the amendment. We, of course, support this amendment, because it is rather a sign that this is your chance to get more money into the budget, which will be thrown here and there, where you have black holes. The fees for plastic bags in force in the 15 countries of the European Union are adapted to the salary of citizens. That is why we want today a clear declaration from the government that it will actually be 20 grams in the regulation. There cannot be a situation in which the government gradually and imperceptibly raises the rate of the levy to be paid to the state budget without a specific destination, and the reflection of this will be visible in the expensive products. When you look at the effects in other European countries that have already introduced plastic bags charges, the expectations of the proposed rules are very high. However, effective reduction in the use of foil bags requires comprehensive action, namely education. In addition to the adoption of the law, a continuous information campaign and measures to collect plastic waste are needed, which can be cost-effective for citizens, as more and more packaging places are being created. On the occasion of this project, many proposals are made to replace foil bags with biodegradable bags. However, biodegradable or actually compostable bags, which are in circulation so far, require conscious sorting, secreting them as products for specialized sorting plants. It's hard for the citizens. The purpose of these packages is based on high social awareness and proper disposal. In countries where plastic bags were withdrawn, the new bans were combined with the joint operation of local governments and commercial networks. In the Netherlands, for example, there are containers for bags that reach 80% on each hypermarket. foils. The recycling infrastructure must be supported systematically and effectively by the State. Some traders complain that recycling of plastic bags has not enough customers among recyclers. It is also worth looking at if we want to ensure that plastic bags do not burden the environment. Unfortunately, the project does not guarantee that the money raised to the state budget from the recycling levy will be used to protect the environment, and this should be the objective. The deadline for implementing the legislation was not agreed with the entrepreneurs and it was unexpectedly postponed to the beginning of next year. Entrepreneurs' opposition is very understandable because they are afraid of difficulties in negotiating contracts between traders and producers of plastic bags, costly reorganisation of cash systems, difficulties in adapting the range of bags to the recycling charge on time. This is, ladies and gentlemen, only three months - I think you've gone too far here. This will be a particularly big challenge for small shops. Moreover, without precise price guidelines, VAT, the unit charge will not be possible to agree on these agreements. Certainly, the new rules will also be a challenge for marshals' offices, because this 1% revenues from a new type of charge may not be sufficient to cover the cost of operating the system with many new undertakings subject to obligations. As you can see, the project has many flaws that could not be resolved at the subcommittee meeting. I do not know, you have not been persuaded, because the PiS Members rejected all the proposed amendments that could correct the errors. Nevertheless, the project introduces the obligations that Poland must fulfil in accordance with European Union legislation and also brings with it positive prospects for environmental protection. That is why we will support this proposal, but we also support the amendments made by the Civic Platform. We agree on each point with each of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u107	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u108	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on this bill on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. The subject is very difficult and very difficult to correct and effective regulation, but of course this is a necessary regulation if we want to achieve declared levels of plastic recovery and move towards where the whole civilized world is going. Reading the law once again leads to reflection - simple things are difficult to write down very often. On the one hand, the definition of a shopping bag, on the other hand the creation of an efficient system for charging and collecting a recycling levy. It is good that we are taking a step towards ordering the packaging market, but we have a long way to go and this law certainly does not regulate this issue comprehensively. And by the way, it seems that the government, according to its own tradition, is using a very important topic to impact the voivodship authorities. This law transforms local governments into danin collectors for the government. Self-governments will play a critical role as fiscalist, and the money thus raised will be at the disposal of the government. Perhaps it would be worth relinquishing the money into either the national environmental fund or the regional environmental funds. After all, these are the institutions over which you have or you will have power in the near future. And it would be best if the funds went to local governments and were intended directly for environmental education. The bill hits businessmen, and it really hits consumers. At least 450,000. Polish companies will have to accelerate the work on the system of accounting monthly recycling fees and the modification of cash systems. Rich foreign corporations can certainly handle it. Small and medium-sized Polish companies will receive another fiscal blow, not quite expected, because in July the Deputy Minister of the Environment assured that there will be no fees for plastic bags in the near future, while setting rates at a very high level - up to 1 PLN. It is also possible to ask what the resort is planning about PET bottles and glass bottles. Are we going to get bail or are we going to give in to a dictatorship of beverage producers? Or is it worth reminding you of your declarations from the beginning of your term and instead of a commercial tax for large shops to charge them with running recovery points, as is the case in Germany? In conclusion, the idea is right, the performance is quite weak. The government is consistently accelerating the implementation of its programme. It is hard to resist such an impression that this is another type of program: tax+. Today we are working on a hastily introduced law, although the time for the regulation is 1 January 2019. Early introduction of the toll system will generate additional and unplanned costs, which will be borne by companies, customers, all Poles. So there is a clear doubt whether the government is really about protecting the Polish environment, whether it wants to burden society with another tribute to the state budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u109	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If anybody wants to sign up, come on in. I'll close the list after the first question. Time, two minutes. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Already in 2009 and 2010, many shops withdrew from the free delivery of bags, introducing a fee of 5 and 20 gr per head for them. The need to pay for the shopping bags resulted in a reduction of about 36% in their use. The funds from the new mandatory fees are intended to go to the state budget, not, as many communities suggest, as well as the Civic Platform, to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The money is meant to be used for educational campaigns. Here, in the context of recent events, the question arises: Will it be a billboard campaign, a political campaign on judicial reform? Will the funds be transferred to the Polish National Foundation? Will it go to companies such as Solvere, founded by law and justice-related individuals? Poles want to know how their money will be distributed. If you want to charge cash for every commercial, tell the Poles what the money will be transferred directly to. Is it not better for the measures thus obtained to support producers of packaging and organic bags, who will actually also bear the high costs of this amendment of the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u111	Thank you. Mrs Joann Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, During the meeting of the Environment Committee, you answered questions concerning, among others, the provision that a recycling charge of up to PLN 1 results from surveys and consultations carried out by the Ministry. My question: Which organisations were consulted and which representative group were the surveys conducted and by whom? Minister! On the question of why the new tax will feed the state budget, not the national environmental fund, you replied that there is no dispute with the Council of Ministers. My question: Were there any other suggestions? If so, what is it? Next line. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the alignment of the laws of the Member States by January 2019. It also does not specify the amount of the fee to be paid. My question: Why does the government want to charge Poles a year earlier with a new tribute? If in March 2019 a substantial amount of money for 2018 comes into the state budget. - and notice that this is the election year - what kind of sausage are you going to give to the voters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The proposed law presented to you is a huge step forward in the field of waste-related standardisation, a milestone towards the implementation of the requirements of the European Union, which you are so concerned about. So in order for this requirement to be met, there must be appropriate tools and there must be no ambivalent expression. On the one hand, you want to normalize waste management, and on the other hand you are criticizing what we are proposing, something very good. I would like to ask the Minister a question and ask for a written answer, because it is related to this subject and to many others. The question is this: In the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act, the sixth amendment to Article 6. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 points 1 and 2 of the Act are introduced a specific provision concerning the allocation of funds to the account of the Marshal of the voivodship for public educational campaigns. And the questions are yes. First: What amounts of these measures will be affected within one year of the above entry? And the second question is: If so, how will the effectiveness of spending these funds be checked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u115	Thank you. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At first reading, I think all the clubs agreed that the packaging fee, for the so-called. The foils, they should be tall enough to scare away, discourage society. There was also a discussion about the need for education in order not only to be afraid, but also to make environmental awareness work. The question is therefore: Is this project about public education and is it, therefore, an honest statement by the Member with regard to this law that the government does not intend to educate but to make money? In the Minister's view, is it also fair to say that it is a silently pushed further tax and that it is about 1.5 billion bucks? This is a question for the rapporteur: Would you agree with the rapporteur that he did not only question the maximum rate at first reading, but also demanded that a minimum fee should be introduced so that the foils would not be too cheap? And now the last question remains: Is the opposition really about protecting the environment, or is it about having an excuse to hit the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u117	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, from year to year we are flooded with an increasing wave of various types of waste. We are a consumer society, like the whole European society, and we have more and more waste. And you have to take a lot of action in many directions to fight this topic to sort it out. In 2013 we adopted an important law in our previous term of office, so-called. garbage, waste management and maintenance in municipalities. This law also provided for certain actions and had certain assumptions to be implemented. I would therefore like to ask about that law in relation to this one. Did, Minister, the bill that was being implemented by local governments with problems bring the expected results? What is the level of today's established recycling in the form of waste segregation, for example? Some indicators were included in this law. And because local authorities have encountered many problems with the implementation of this law, is it being implemented, and I have heard that it is being implemented, and what scope is the pilot programme for the management of waste in the closed circuit? Are there any agreements with local governments on this subject yet? Referring to today's law: how will the public be informed - whether by the Ministry or by the national fund just about replacing or not using on such a scale as so far, disposable plastic bags, preparing for shopping with other bags, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] can be used repeatedly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u119	Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u120	In general, I think this is a very good direction to educate society through a kind of economic pressure, especially since, please remember, it will be a return to what used to be. After all, once our grandmothers, our mothers were only walking around with nets of all kinds and were very creative in this matter, also creating such nets that were made up of cones and kept in re-use bags. So here this element of education through economics is important. On the other hand, the pursuit of such centralisation, which I notice in all areas, including the collection of this money and the transfer of it to the budget, simply suggests that they will not be used for the purpose for which they should be. We have actually great institutions, which are the voivodship environmental funds and the national fund, so it is natural that this money should be directed right there, because it guarantees and eliminates all these suspicions that occur and which sounded today in the courtroom. All the more so this argument is important, that through the amendment of Water Law and the creation of a company of Water Polish Voivodship environmental funds will be deprived of almost one third of the influence of those funds which have so far had, and it would be natural to help simply, to compensate for this lack as if through these funds from this recycling charge. At the same time, I would like to ask whether the Ministry provides for the introduction of a recycling levy on synthetic oils, which are in the [[♪ The bell ♪]] at this point in time in insufficient percentage recovered and are often used for sunbathing garages and poisoning citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u121	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this discussion and for all your questions. I'll try to answer them. Just like you. you said, the project we have been working on and we are still working on is a project that is a requirement of the European Union. The Directive should be implemented, the legislative work should be completed by November. All the time that this directive was still being discussed, the environment was being negotiated, which some of the opposition states have raised... These were the times when it was negotiated, when the Member States could speak, to indicate these mechanisms. I will remind you what I said in the committee that my predecessor in 2014 clearly said that he would not shake his hand to introduce such a fee. I also remember those words, which were about the example of France, where there was a total ban on the use of such packaging. Of course, as you said, it is not only about implementing the directive, but it is also about making certain remedial measures in the area of waste management, very necessary, which was reported not only by the social side, but also by the Environmental Protection Inspection, by those who control the market participants. These cases, in respect of which from reports or information it appeared that Poles suddenly switched to wooden packaging and we do everything in boxes to reach the levels, showed that some records had to be changed so that such pathologies would rule out that they were cheating. But thanks to the fact that we can also cross the data in the system, this turned out to be true, and on this basis we were able to make these relevant changes. And there are actually a lot of these types of changes in ordering in this law. Therefore, We want to prevent these pathologies that are in the system and to implement this project as soon as possible, especially since the fees that some entrepreneurs have introduced are due to the fact that there have been announcements of the introduction of the fee. But of course there are also Polish shops, which have not yet introduced such a fee, for example. they also offer paper bags. Ladies and gentlemen, the funds will go to the state budget. The State implements the centre of action, of course in the main area, in the field of environmental protection, through the national environmental fund, the voivodship funds, the Bank of Environmental Protection. This is the Polish model of financing environmental protection, but also a number of actions are implemented from the state budget. And there is no such thing as the needs of the government, ladies and gentlemen, there are the needs of Poles. It was the Poles who chose this government and this government is concerned. [[But let's not rob these Poles.]] But, of course, let us not say that these are the needs of the government, these are the needs of the Poles that we implement. It is wrong to say, it misleads Poles, we cannot do this, that the government is introducing, as the Member has said, a zloty for every commercial. We are talking about a mechanism that will possibly allow this to be up to this level, but no one is planning this at this stage. Why? This is because, together with the work on the regulation, a wide, very broad public consultation will begin. I remember Mr Cimoszewicz, I remember what he said, what needs are, how necessary... However, a larger mechanism may need to be applied. But I also remember the voices that fell in the case of the law, because it was consulted with 41 industry organisations, it was a very broad consultation. Besides, she certainly asked this question, knowing that all this information is in the impact assessment. I am sure that you have read this, but thank you for allowing me to speak about this broad consultation, thank you very much. As I say, there will be consultations on the regulation. This price will be specified in the Regulation as there are very different voices. We assume that the proposal, which will be consulted, is 20 gr, because in those countries where a similar amount was introduced, there was indeed this reduction effect. This is what the directive requires us to do to reduce the number of plastic bags available. And thank you for the last vote, Mr Sonik, who has shown that it is a tradition that we have used these bags, that this is not a form of certain oppression, but also a form of rational use of resources, that we are at a time when we are negotiating a circular economy package when we are talking about respect for resources. Respect for resources is that we do not use disposable products that we do not need to use. And a bag like that lives for a few minutes, doesn't it? So this is the goal that we want to achieve and which also opens up a great field - and we have often talked about it in this Chamber and in committee meetings - for innovation, to produce new materials, so that there are new products that will be more consumer and environmental friendly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for the next vote and for the questions that concern the amount of funds that are transferred to education. The current law indicates that 2% the values of packaging that are placed on the market are to be transferred to educational campaigns, but also to the Ministry of the Environment, the national environmental fund and all interested in carrying out these campaigns, because it is our very important duty. I am referring to good examples, to what is deep in Poles, i.e. respect for environmental resources and also to such rationality, because a good bag from which we will not send our products is also important, isn't it? Not only Polish companies, but also foreign companies on the other side of the Baltic Sea also introduce such solutions. There is also broad agreement on a certain corporate culture to introduce certain environmental measures, especially since one of the elements of the discussion on the waste package is the circular economy, and it is the circular economy in this area, which concerns the extended responsibility of producers, i.e. greater participation in the costs borne by the environment through our activities in this environment. As regards the question of the pilot programme, the closed-loop economy is an important priority of the Minister of Environment and we want to show this on small examples, just referring to examples and traditions of the Polish village. But these were also times in which there was no plastic, so there are new challenges, and these new challenges need to be implemented on small examples in order to then move them further and show that we can operate in the environment so that we do not destroy this environment, to multiply these resources, but also to counteract pollution of the environment, because foil waste, these foil bags, as one of the representatives of the municipal company from Żywiec has said, is a big problem, because very often such waste is dirty, they are light, their unit price is low and it is very difficult to recycle. Very often these bags go to the furnaces, they are burned, although they are often used as garbage bags, but not always, are they? So you have to be aware that their consumption... And that is what the directive obliges us to do: to reduce. We had two roads. We could establish levels and assume that Poles are supposed to reduce the number of bags to 90 per person. Only if we didn't, then we'd have to bear the criminal responsibility that we didn't achieve these levels. So we are introducing, like other countries of the European Union, mechanisms to help us do this. I hope that this regulation will still be discussed at the Senate level. All the doubts that arose during the discussion period will be explained and for the sake of the waste management system, for the sake of the environment, to reduce the pressures of this type of packaging on the environment, it will be useful, because remember that we are talking about littering, we are talking about the fact that in spring in trees and in the woods instead of leaves hang grids, because it also blows the wind, right? It can of course be cleaned from the ground, it is harder to pull it from the trees. It is all the more worth remembering that it also goes into the water, it goes into the sewer network, it pushes the sewerage, but it also goes into living organisms, into marine organisms. This is a serious environmental problem and it cannot be delayed to reduce the amount of such waste, such as plastic waste, just plastic bags. Thank you very much and I recommend our bags and any other bags you can use repeatedly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u123	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u124	Dear Minister, You didn't understand what I was trying to do all the time while trying to show this bill. I'm showing hypocrisy on your part. Namely, I remember well what I said at first reading. Ultimately, we should, of course, raise this rate in the future, but as I said, education is the most important. You are all aware of the low level of awareness regarding waste sorting of the type of plastic bags in our society. He's dramaticly low. This money needs to be transferred to building infrastructure and awareness, which is to educate society. You yourself admitted, speaking just now, that only 2% of this amount will go to education. What is 2% if this bag costs 20 gr? This would translate into about PLN 250 million, which is only 2% You will be transferred to education. Minister, with all due respect... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u125	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Following the discussion in the committees during the first and second readings, I can see that there is no awareness among Members that there are certain provisions in the Act, which were suggested, among other things, that local authorities will be burdened with additional burden, that entrepreneurs will have huge reporting - but still some misunderstanding appears. The 2% This is not a recycling charge. These are compulsory fees for entrepreneurs or recovery organisations who act on behalf of traders who place waste on the market, who are supposed to transfer funds from their income to the advertising campaign. This bill, among others. additionally obliges and imposes the possibility of enforcing their advertising campaigns. It should be made clear, however, that apart from the general agreement of Members from practically all clubs, that we should reduce the use of plastic bags by Poles, there are some differences of opinion as to the deadline or the amount of fees. We're just gonna have to settle this in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u127	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 12 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws (prints No. 1765 and 1811). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u128	Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws. The first reading of this project took place at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry yesterday. During the meeting, the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm indicated the need for amendments of a linguistic and legislative nature to the draft law submitted by the Government. The proposed amendment to the Environmental Law and certain other laws aims to transpose into Polish law certain provisions of Directive 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants called MCP. The provisions of the MCP Directive should be transposed into national law by 19 December 2017. This Directive is part of the EU's Clean Air Initiative. Its adoption complements the regulatory framework for the combustion sector. The so-called directive. medium combustion sources, i.e. sources with a nominal heat output of not less than 1 MW and less than 50 MW shall require that they be covered by a permit system or registration system, air emission limit values and emission monitoring obligations, as well as by a record of sources. The register should contain the information listed in Annex 1 to the MCP Directive and should be publicly available. In Poland there is a system that regulates emissions of pollutants into the air, including: average sources of combustion of fuels. In the current legal state, almost all average sources of combustion of fuels are already covered by the emission permit or notification regulations for the introduction of substances into the air. These sources also have specific emission requirements by means of an implementing regulation to the Environmental Law, and the sources requiring authorisation also have emission measurement requirements. Therefore, the transposition of the provisions of the MCP Directive requires only the amendment, development or clarification of certain provisions of the Environmental Law and its implementing acts. The proposed amendment to the Environmental Law includes, in particular, the extension of the content of applications for permits and information contained in notifications concerning medium combustion sources of fuels and the keeping of a publicly available register of such sources. The amendments proposed in the proposed act also include the introduction of two derogation mechanisms for medium-sized sources supplying public heating networks and gas supply sources necessary to ensure the safety and security of the national gas transmission system. These mechanisms allow operators of certain existing medium combustion sources of fuels with a rated thermal input of more than 5 MW later than the general provisions of the Directive, i.e. by 1 January 2030, adapting to certain emission requirements. The transposition of the Directive requires the establishment and keeping of a register containing information on medium-sized sources, including the information listed in Annex I to the Directive. In accordance with the provisions of the proposed Act, the register of medium combustion sources will be kept from 1 January 2019 by the National Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management. For this reason, environmental authorities will provide information to the KOBIZ on the notifications and emission permits they have accepted. The draft also takes the view that the information on the sources for which the licences were issued and the notifications made prior to the entry into force of the proposed law will be forwarded to the KOBIZ within 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Act, and that KOBIZ will register them within 3 years of that date. The Commission's meeting concluded that it is necessary to supplement this provision in order to ensure the completeness of the register by indicating the date on which the data received by KOBIZE will be entered in the register before 1 January 2019. The amendment was proposed and adopted by the committee. In view of the implementation of the obligation to keep a publicly available register of medium combustion sources in addition to the amendment of the Environmental Law, it is also necessary to amend two other laws: the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessment and the Act of 17 July 2009 on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. The Act should enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, except for the obligation to keep in Poland a register of medium combustion sources, which should enter into force on 1 January 2019. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the amendment of the Environmental Law is necessary for the Republic of Poland, a Member State of the European Union, to fulfil its obligations to transpose the provisions of the MCP Directive. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask the High House to adopt the report and support the amendments proposed in the draft law. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u129	And I thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And, please, Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the 1811 report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws, originally printing 1765. The aim of this bill is to implement into Polish law the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, hereinafter referred to as the MCP Directive, concerning the so-called. medium combustion sources, i.e. sources with a rated thermal input of not less than 1 MW and less than 50 MW. The MCP Directive requires medium-sized sources to be covered by a licence or registration system, emission limit values and emission monitoring obligations, as well as to keep a register of those sources. The register should contain the information listed in Annex I to that Directive and should be publicly available. The proposed bill proposes amendments to three laws: the Environmental Law, the Environmental Information and Protection Act, the Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Evaluations... and the Law on the System for the Management of greenhouse gas emissions and other substances. In the current legal system, average sources of combustion of fuels are subject to a notification obligation or an obligation to obtain an emission permit, such as a permit for the introduction of gases or dusts into the air or an integrated permit. In the future, for compliance with the provisions of the MCP Directive, the notification should cover all medium-sized sources of combustion of fuels, i.e. sources with a unit rated thermal output of 1 MW. The implementation of this Directive requires the amendment of the Environmental Law to the extent that it regulates emissions permits and notifications, as well as the rules for the combination of sources of combustion of fuels. The amendments to the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances are due to the need to transpose into Polish law the provisions of the MCP Directive to the extent that it introduces an obligation to keep a publicly available register of medium combustion sources of fuels and to make publicly available information contained in that register. In accordance with the provisions of the MCP Directive, new medium combustion sources should be included in the register immediately after the notification or after the authorisation has been granted. The draft law assumes that the register of medium combustion sources will be kept from 1 January 2019. The requirements of the Directive indicate that the law should enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, except for the amendment of the provisions on new medium combustion sources which are to apply later. The operator of the medium source of combustion of fuels will be obliged, after amending the Environmental Law, to provide the authority with all information about the source that should be included in the register. The Government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws contained in print No. 1765 has been well prepared and therefore the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports it in accordance with the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry published in print No. 1811. The original printing is printing number 1765. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u131	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u132	The Civic Platform Club supports the bill presented. The proposed amendment to the Environmental Law is a transposition measure aimed at introducing and announcing the necessary amendments in order to bring national legislation into line with EU law. This is due to the need to adapt the Act to Directive (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. The directive was adopted and its provisions should be transferred to our right by 17 December 2017. And here's an important point. This Directive concerns medium combustion sources, i.e. the capacity of which is between 1 MW and 50 MW and requires that these sources be covered by the registration system, emission limit values and monitoring obligations for those emissions, as well as the record of those sources. The register should contain the information listed in the Annex to this Directive, and I would therefore like to reassure citizens that this does not apply to domestic heating because it does not exceed 1 MW. In Poland we are in this good situation that there is already a system regulating emissions from medium combustion sources and in the current legal state almost all sources of combustion are already covered by the obligation to obtain an emission permit or notification obligation. These sources also have specific emission requirements. The transposition of this Directive therefore requires clarification or development of the Environmental Law and certain implementing acts. The proposed amendments to this Act include: the extension of the content of applications for authorisations for medium combustion sources, the extension of the information contained in the notifications concerning these sources, the keeping of a publicly available register of medium combustion sources, the implementation of an analysis at the stage of preparation of air protection programmes as regards the need to introduce stricter emission limits for medium combustion sources in an area where the air quality standard has been exceeded if emissions lower than those laid down in the Directive would contribute to improving air quality. As far as the quantitative scope is concerned, in Poland we have registered about 5 thousand. medium combustion sources. Here it is worth to say that, in general, European law favours the fact that both these large power plants, which burn in a professional way different types of fuels and medium-sized ones, are subject to quite strict standards, and the problem today in the fight for clean air is low emissions, i.e. what is burned in individual combustion plants and, of course, car emissions, so it is good that we are equal to those standards which are required to meet, but before us another winter season and another battle to master the sources of low emissions that are not the subject of today's change of regulation. The Directive sets limit values for emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust for combustion plants with a nominal heat output of not less than 1 MW and less than 50 MW, as I have already said. The Directive also provides for an alternative way to determine the frequency of measurements. It is also envisaged that a Member State may determine the obligation to carry out continuous measurements. In the case of the use of exhaust cleaning equipment to comply with the emission limit, the operator shall be required to store records or information showing the actual continuous operation of such equipment. The obligation to keep records of secondary emission reduction equipment also applies to any malfunction or failure, becoming an equally important aspect of installation surveillance as the type and quantity of fuels used or emission measurements. It is also worth pointing out in the Directive the need to reduce the burden imposed on small and medium-sized enterprises operating medium-sized facilities and, therefore, to ensure the proportionality of the administrative obligations of operators concerning information, monitoring and reporting, and to avoid duplication, while ensuring that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that those obligations enable the competent authority to carry out an effective verification of compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u133	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws, print no. 1765. The Act aims to improve air quality. In practice, it is limited to the implementation of the EU directive on medium combustion sources, so it has only a certain impact on air quality. First of all, it does not solve the problem of the use of household ovens, the main sources of pollution in the winter period. Nor does it take into account any quality standards used as coal fuel, and in particular the smoking ban I had. Yes, in Poland we have - however unusual rare - regulations concerning so-called. low emissions, but they are quite weak. They recommend e.g. the use of high-quality furnaces in which high-quality fuel should be burned - either significantly expensive or rare in Poland. There is no possibility in these regulations of using high-quality filters that would allow any fuel to be burned while capturing harmful residues. They would also be easy to check, because they are visible, because they are placed in a specific place. The problem of low emissions is also a much more complex issue for financial reasons. It is enough to say that many local governments do not do it because they simply do not have money for it, nor do they have no state. It should be noted that the legal content of the bill is non-controversial, for example, because: in Poland we already have a legal system governing the operation of medium combustion sources - they have appropriate certificates, permits, etc.; transposition of the EU change requires only adaptation of the existing system in Poland in few areas, e.g. With regard to the public matter of the medium combustion register, an electronic register of combustion sources shall be established in this respect, which shall be kept by the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre; it shall also specify more stringent standards for medium combustion sources of fuels, with stricter emission standards for combustion sources put into service before 20 December 2018 only as from 2025; it shall also be important to require users of emission installations, e.g. kilns, take action to reduce emissions as soon as they are found not to comply with emission standards. Another thing that governs the bill is that waste other than that not included in biomass may not be incinerated in fuel combustion sources. In view of these solutions and the uncontroversial nature of the Kukiz Act15, it is in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u135	Thank you. I ask you to take the floor of Mrs. Elizabeth Stupid.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I present my position on printing no. 1765, i.e. on the government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. Print No 1765 modifies most of the provisions already in force in Poland in an appropriate way to adapt them to the content of the EU directive, called the MCP Directive. In my opinion, this modification is correct. I just hope that during the process, there will be no changes that could soften these rules, as this could result in an incorrect implementation of this directive, which is important for air quality. Let us remember that Polish air is one of the worst in Europe today. First of all, it should be known that emissions of pollutants from combustion of fuels in medium combustion plants are increasingly contributing to air pollution. This is mainly due to the increase in the use of biomass as fuel, which is a consequence of the current climate and energy policy. It is therefore important that this law deals with these issues and complements the existing law in accordance with the provisions of the implementing EU Directive on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. At the same time, what is important, the proposed legislation does not create a sudden change which would require a sudden adaptation of many actors to the requirements of the new law. It is foreseen that the criteria for medium combustion plants will be gradually distributed at the time of tightening. Therefore, the law should not be unduly severe for small and medium-sized enterprises who often operate such facilities. They will have time to implement new rules in their companies step by step. However, we call for the provisions of the draft to be quickly supplemented by the necessary and consistent provisions of the implementing regulation. Indeed, it is necessary for the entities concerned to be able to take into account the specific requirements as quickly as possible in their investment cycles. They need to be given time to plan and make investments, adjust the work of the plant to new changes, and prepare financial resources. Given that the aim of the changes is to adapt Polish law on the protection of Polish air and also brings positive prospects for environmental protection, Modern is in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u137	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present a position on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. I will immediately say that this is a positive position. The proposed law aims to transpose into Polish law certain provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into air from medium combustion plants, which is part of the Clean Air initiative. The Directive sets emission limits for dust, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides for these plants at a level that guarantees gradual improvement in air quality, but with the protection of existing facilities and investments. The Directive sets emission standards for the substances I have previously exchanged for medium combustion sources, i.e. those whose nominal heat output is equal to or greater than 1 MW but less than 50 MW. Such solutions maintain the cost of operating them and thus do not increase the cost of heat for final customers. The Directive covers small plants and district heating facilities, for which operators are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, including municipal companies, i.e. ca. Three-quarters of four-and-a-half thousand. objects located in Poland. The Directive also requires medium combustion sources to be covered by the permit and registration system and mandatory monitoring of emissions and introduces requirements for the operation of emission reduction devices. A newly created register of medium combustion sources complying with the requirements of the MCP Directive is to be publicly available and will be kept electronically by the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre. In Poland, we need a law that will enable us to achieve environmental benefits while maintaining optimal costs. We must take care of the highest quality of air we breathe. Smog is not a theoretical threat, on the contrary, endangers the health and life of millions of Poles. According to estimates from the European Environment Agency, air pollution contributes to the premature death of some 48 000. Poles. That's 15 times more casualties than in road accidents in our country. We live on average 9 months less because we breathe contaminated air in Poland. The responsibility for this fight should not rest only on local governments, it must involve the Polish government. The Polish People's Party, meeting expectations, prepared some time ago a national anti-smog program, whose main assumptions are the financing of the exchange of furnaces and heating, the ban on burning waste and installation of installations that do not meet safety standards, the construction of anti-smog towers and the development of renewable energy sources. Such actions are investments in the health and life of Poles. Without financing the air protection system in this way, we will not be able to win against smog, but, as I said, the implementation of the MCP Directive is certainly a step in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u139	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very pleased that the Ministry of Environment is dealing with environmental issues. It's just a pity that all of this is for the right thing to do at the last minute. These regulations, which we are talking about today, are to be introduced in December this year, so it is clear that we have simply delayed until the last moment to prepare the relevant laws. I am also concerned that Law and Justice, which has been ruling Poland for almost two years, has only now noticed the problem with smog and air pollution, because only now the Polish Górnicza Group has decided to ban the sale of the worst coal waste, including coal waste. Only now did Prime Minister Morawiecki sign a regulation that eliminates furnaces from the Polish market, so-called. Cinderellas who were the lowest qualified in terms of combustion. It is therefore a good thing that whatever is happening at all, and I am concerned that all these actions are taken at the last moment, because, as it has been said here, almost 50,000 die annually in Poland because of smog. persons. So, if it hadn't been for these omissions of the Members of the Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, maybe we could have saved some of these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u141	Minister Paweł Salek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the fact that, in principle, all parliamentary clubs decide to support the revision of the Environmental Law, which will implement, introduce a directive on medium combustion sources. I will no longer explain all things here, because you rapporteur Members know very well the subject matter and have defined it in a very precise way. As far as the question is concerned, to what Mr Meysztowicz has said, I would like to say that this government has held power for less than two years, and for these two years, I have wanted to point out that, in terms of air protection, a great deal has been done. As far as the boiler regulation is concerned, it is already entering on 1 October of this year. There was a full preparatory period, several months, so that this Regulation could be introduced, including that the European Commission's notification itself lasted 2 months. In addition, there was an entire legislative process related to the preparation of the act. Another point is what the honourable Member was talking about, that we are doing it late. We do not do this late because a law well prepared, which implements EU law in a balanced way, if it is already well prepared - and for that it takes a little time - then, as it turns out, it goes through the parliamentary path in a very efficient way. Thank you for these declarations that we will continue to be able to implement this law - I hope that without amendments - we will implement it. As far as information about the Directive is concerned, this Directive entered into force, came into force in December 2015 and before 19 December 2017 we will implement it. And when it comes to smog-related issues with low emissions, there's really been a lot going on lately and we've been catching up on some of the last few years, like I said, in less than two years. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u143	Thank you, Minister. Are you the rapporteur? [[No, thank you.]] In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The contested bill essentially transfers the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants to Polish law. This is a necessary amendment because the current system in Poland governing emissions from medium combustion sources does not fully meet EU requirements. I have no doubt that we must make sure that emissions into the air are as small as possible. It seems obvious to everyone, but unfortunately there are areas in Poland where air purity leaves much to be desired. I hope that the implementation of quite restrictive EU standards will give us more fresh and healthier air. I also hope that this will promote a lower incidence of Poles for diseases associated with the inhalation of various types of pollutants. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u145	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (prints Nos 1740 and 1808). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print Nos 1740 and 1808. The joint committees at their meeting on 12 September 2017, after discussing the bill by Mr Marek Zagórski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Digitalization, at first reading, began to consider the bill. Four legislative amendments and four substantive amendments were tabled during the committee's work. All amendments were adopted unanimously. The substantive amendments were considered together because they relate to the extension of the time limit for the launch of the CEPiK 2.0 system in the field of vehicle registration from 30 October 2017 to 13 November 2017. In view of the above, the transitional provisions of the Law of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws should be amended consistently and each time by the date of 29 October 2017 to 12 November 2017 and the date of 10 October 2017 to 20 October 2017. These provisions concern the planned migration of data to the central vehicle register and the entry into force of the above amendments. 2015 amendment These amendments are due to the extension of the legislative process and the need to take account of increased travel by citizens and increased road controls during the festival of the dead. The proposed rules would be announced at the turn of October and November, during the annual period of the Police's share of Znicz, which could have a negative impact on the safety of travellers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies unanimously adopted the draft law contained in print 1740 together with the amendments and proposed that the High Sejm approve the draft law presented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u147	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Again, I ask that Mr Jerzy Bielecki speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The proposed amendment from 1740 and 1808 aims to speed up the entry into force of the regulations on the central vehicle register. The amended Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and some other laws included a legal framework for the implementation of the IT project CEPiK 2.0 which aims to rebuild and modernise the central register of vehicles, the central register of drivers, and the construction of the central register of car card holders. It should be pointed out that the process of switching to a modernised system involves the migration of a very large amount of data from multiple sources and the connection of a large number of service recipients. Only 380 counties belong here, over 4,000. vehicle control stations, more than 7 thousand. Driver training centres. As part of the revision and implementation of the implementation schedule, it was confirmed that the implementation of the system could be accelerated in the field of central vehicle registration, as reflected in the draft amendment to the Act. The launch of the modernized CEPiK 2.0 is expected from 2013. It was therefore necessary to adapt the provisions in the following laws: Road traffic law; compulsory insurance; insurance and reinsurance business; amendment of the Act on vehicle managers and certain other laws. The current bill complements the gaps identified during the project work. It introduces a definition of material injury which eliminates the risk of different interpretations by insurance undertakings and other State authorities. The proposed provision introduces an obligation for vehicle manufacturers and importers to transmit data concerning the approval to the electronic catalogue of brands and types of vehicles. The introduction of the provision will contribute to improving the quality of the data collected in the catalogue, in particular as regards their complementarity and relevance. The obligation imposed is intended to facilitate the entry of correct data on individual vehicles into the records - inter alia. by vehicle registration authorities. The proposed law is intended to improve and shorten the procedure for overpayments, which is intended to translate directly into the possibility of faster reimbursement of overpayments. The proposed amendments respond to the needs raised by the European Union in connection with Directive 2015/413/EU on facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences or offences. By providing the Insurance Guarantee Fund with access to data from the central register, the regulation will facilitate action to combat the phenomena of insurance crime. In addition, this will allow for a more efficient and efficient elimination of damage by insurance companies. The proposed project introduces the possibility for the Border Guard to retain registration documents when carrying out statutory tasks. The proposed provisions remove the so-called "removal" rules. technical research tourism. The provision clearly specifies which vehicles are not registered for which technical tests have been carried out or the policy has been issued. In fulfilling the Minister for Development and Finance's request, the scope of the data collected in the CEPiK was extended to include a catalogue of information on the vehicle's security features, which is intended to cover not only occupation but also property security and treasury pledges. The amendment will improve the safety of secondary trading. There will be simple online access to vehicle data - my vehicle service. The benefits indicated for our citizens [[♪ The bell ♪]] and for entities related to vehicle registration resulting from this project, the Law and Justice Club shall vote in favour of the amendment submitted by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u149	Thank you. I ask Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic. This draft law covers important aspects of the operation of the Central Vehicle and Driver Records. The provisions introduced by this Act are currently extending the established catalogue of data to be collected and made available in the central vehicle register. In addition, a set of entities required to submit new data is to be identified. As a result of the entry into force of the provisions in question, the rules for recording data are also to be harmonised. According to these solutions, these rules are to be the same for all obliged entities. Proposals for the extension of the data catalogue included in the CEPiK address important aspects from the point of view of road users' safety. The proposed solutions are intended to allow for a more effective identification of vehicles not insured by the authorities appointed to do so. In addition, the new regulations aim to improve the transparency and availability of vehicle data that consumers will be able to use. The introduction of a wider vehicle data directory into the ICT system will make it easier to verify the history of any car. As part of the new functionalities, the CEPiK is to be provided with information on vehicle failures identified in the course of the vehicle tests carried out, or data on the occurrence of material damage on the vehicle, i.e. having an impact on the safety of the use of the vehicle in road traffic. In addition, as a result of the entry into force of the proposed law, the CEP will be informed of the safety features on the vehicle, including its occupation by the enforcement authority or the establishment of another property security. This solution will allow the potential buyer to obtain information about the limited owner's right to own his own car. All the above data are relevant to safeguard the interests of potential buyers of vehicles. With the entry into force of these solutions, consumers will be able to further verify them using the data available in the CEPiK. The important effect of the amendments in question is therefore to increase the safety of the secondary market in vehicles. It is worth noting that this market is burdened with many shortcomings and has been calling for years to improve consumer protection in this area. An important element of this regulation is also the introduction of rules that will allow the Border Guard to retain vehicle registration documents and time permits for driving. Such a solution will allow for a faster performance of business activities without the need to involve other service representatives. The Government's proposal to amend the Road Traffic Law will lead to an extension of the catalogue of publicly available data contained in the central vehicle register. The project is undoubtedly a good direction for changes in the functioning of the central vehicle register. Any regulation aimed at improving the safety of road users and consumer protection should be defined as appropriate proposals. In conclusion, the proposed solutions are beneficial for consumers, services and bodies who use the resources made available in the Central Vehicle and Driver Records in their activities. Their essence is to improve the safety of secondary market traffic and to improve overall road safety. In particular, it is the elimination of the phenomenon of tourism technical research, the introduction of data concerning inter alia. OC, property security and vehicle approval, the possibility of retention of registration evidence by the Border Guard or the ongoing elimination of outdated data. It is very important that this regulation will not increase rates and charges for citizens. It should be stressed that the proposed legal solutions work successfully in the west of Europe. This draft law is not covered by European Union law, nor does it contain technical standards within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 22 December 2002. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the proposed amendments and is in favour of referring this draft law to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u151	Thank you, sir. And Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz club15, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law introduces the necessary and expected changes. All my previous speakers have already talked about its advantages here. I will personally recommend Kukiz15 to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for listening patiently to my statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u153	I, too, thank you, especially since this patience has not been damaged by the Member, has not abused. I would like to ask you, Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. [[Dear Marshal, I will train your patience for this.]] But, sir, I am at your disposal for five minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u154	Well, I'm glad. Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws following the presentation of the report of the committee, prints No. 1740 and 1808. High Izbo! The proposed bill aims to speed up the entry into force of certain provisions relating to the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers in that part which concerns the central registration of vehicles. This acceleration concerns a number of relevant aspects, including the data collected and made available from the data exporter's records, which are relevant for efficiency, reliability, availability and quality, as well as uniform rules for the entry of data into the records for all entities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a holiday. We can announce a holiday tonight. For the first time in history, since Parliament has dealt with the CEPiK system, this record is that we are talking about acceleration. Until now, for several years systematically and, I would say, with a keenly worthwhile case, we have only talked about moving this register to a later date. This system is one of those systems on which we can trace how extremely incompetent people have been involved in state computerization so far, and this has been the case for a number of recent years. It's a good thing we're done with this ungrateful tradition, at least in this respect and for this moment. Turning to detailed solutions, of course, it is difficult to refer to everyone, because we have quite limited time, but it is certainly important to note that in this project there is a definition of material damage. On the one hand, there are requirements for the input of information, such information exists, on the other hand there was no definition, which could have led to differences in interpretation. So it is good that this legal situation is being changed. The introduction of a precise definition, which means material damage, eliminates the risk of different interpretations and ensures that insurance companies define and transmit relevant data in a consistent manner. Another obligation that arises is the obligation for manufacturers and importers of vehicles to transmit the approval data to the electronic catalogue of brands and types of vehicles. And it's hard to believe that a few years ago this obligation was abolished. For the correctness of the catalogue of brands such an obligation is necessary, especially since the quality of records in the existing register is legendary and, ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, this is not a positive legend. Thus, the introduction of the provision will certainly contribute to improving the quality of the data collected in the catalogue, in particular as regards its completeness and relevance. This will improve overall the quality of the data collected at the CEPiK, which ultimately matters to the citizen, who in various ways meets the CEPiK on a daily basis. The draft also proposes a new regulation of the area related to registration fees. Today's regulations make operations related, e.g. with corrections, in terms of these charges are in practice extremely complicated. The new rules should ensure greater transparency and lead to important simplification of the procedure. This will, of course, have a positive impact on relations with entrepreneurs who collect and fund the CEPiK with these fees. Further changes concern the possibility of exchanging data on persons violating road traffic rules in the European Union and the proposal to ensure access to data by the Insurance Guarantee Fund. In both cases, we have some doubts about the scope of the data, and in the first case, on reciprocity, but in the light of the explanations set out in the explanatory memorandum, we will accept this proposal, reserving future amendments if the rules prove to be extremely unfavourable to our citizens or not supported by the principle of reciprocity in relations with other countries of the European Union. The proposal also introduces a legal basis for the detention by Border Guard officers of registration documents. Of course, this is a repressive provision on the one hand, and in our assessment road safety is the most important one, and this safety requires that the appropriate services can apply the principle of tolerance to drivers or vehicles that should not move on the road. In addition, a number of other changes have been made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What I'm trying to say is that, among other things, there is an impulse to introduce electronic communication on an exclusive basis, including even a free application, instead of paper, expensive and long-term procedures, so we consider that this is a very good step in the right direction. In connection with the position I just presented, the Poselski Club The modern declaration of support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u155	Thank you, sir. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u156	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic, prints no. 1740 and 1808. Yes, the club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of continuing its work, will probably vote in the final, I am convinced of this, in favour of this bill, because this project is finalising the actions carried out over the last few years to implement this system. Those of us who functioned in the local government in previous years, especially in the county government, remember the beginnings, remember how we talked about how we planned and what we expected. Since then, government and local government administrations have gone a certain way, with all the peripetia, with the conditions, with the implementing entity, with the problems that occurred in the Securities Printing Works, and we are glad to be getting to the end. The fact of speeding up the introduction is an additional positive element. In this project amending previous records there are a number of new elements and important changes that virtually meet many expectations, solve many issues, make this system an administration arm and give them the opportunity to use it to users or future users and owners of vehicles, give them the opportunity to obtain a lot of information. My predecessors discussed here all these practically new elements that were included in the records, i.e. the issues of technical testing, the records of negative test results, which creates the history of the vehicle. They talked about the register and catalogue of brands, about insurances, about the guarantee fund, about the opportunities that the Border Guard has obtained. These records contain new wordings that eliminate the barriers to data transmission, but also indicate the directions and possibilities for interested parties to obtain data. So we are in the position that this government project should be supported. I think that everything is also agreed with local governments, so that there will be no difficult situations here. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u157	Thank you, sir. The question was raised by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law will undoubtedly contribute to improving road safety, but I would like to be sure, and therefore I have a specific question about the financial implications of the adoption of this proposal. Namely, will this bill, which will enter into force, not have financial consequences for vehicle owners in the form of introducing new charges or increasing existing charges? I'm thinking especially about insurance charges here. That is why I would ask for a specific answer on these effects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u159	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is undoubtedly beneficial for citizens, vehicle owners or future vehicle owners. In this situation, however, we would also like to expand this information concerning not only cars that are registered in Poland, but also cars that are imported from abroad. Are there any work carried out that will enable similar or similar data to be obtained in relation to other vehicles, those not registered in our system? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u161	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question for you. There is a provision which will form the basis for exchanging information with other countries on persons violating traffic regulations. I wanted to ask which countries it concerns. This is the first part. The second part. The citizens of which EU countries who commit traffic offences in Poland can be held liable by our country on the basis of such bilateral agreements or other regulations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u163	Thank you, sir. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalisation of Minister Marek Zagórski to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen... Firstly, in answer to Mrs Czernow's question, I would like to assure you that no additional financial impact, i.e. additional burdens on the introduction of the provisions of this law, will be imposed on drivers, especially as regards insurance issues. On the contrary. It can be said that greater transparency, more information about cars can only improve the situation of users, especially those who will buy cars, because they will be more confident about how they are. As for Mr Wojciechowski's questions about vehicles registered in other countries when we have this information, this is our next step, as we anticipate. We will want to make such functionality and information available in the system probably at the end of the year, so that it is a matter of a few months. In reply to Mr Suchoni, there is, in principle, reciprocity in relations with other countries of the European Union, including in this respect. On the other hand, we will also consult with the Ministry of Infrastructure and allow ourselves to provide detailed information on how it works today, because in principle this should apply in all directions, but we know that our citizens are also not everywhere, in quotes, being repressed for violating the rules. So, if you allow me, in agreement with the Minister of Infrastructure, we will prepare a detailed response. To conclude, I would like to thank all the Members of the Joint Committee very warmly for their good work on this project and to warn them that we will still be coming to the High House on this issue, but rather with acceleration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u165	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Health on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź (prints No 1655 and 1819). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Kopcinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Health about the draft law amending the law on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. Mr Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sent the above draft to the Committee on National Defence and to the Committee on Health for First Reading on 20 June 2017. The National Defence Commission and the Health Commission after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 12 September 2017 voted positively and asked the High Sejm to approve the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u167	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice by Mrs Alicja Kaczorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I was honored to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice an opinion on the draft law amending the law on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź recorded in print no. 1655. It is a parliamentary initiative of the group of Members of Law and Justice to make changes, primarily in the Act of 27 July 2002 on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź created by the merger of two universities: the Medical Academy in Łódź and the Military Medical Academy in Łódź. General Bolesław Szarecki in Łódź. I have worked in the team of these Members and it is an additional honor for me because I am a Łódź woman and for 15 years I have worked in the Department of Anaesthesia of the Military Medical Academy. Currently, the university is supervised by the Minister of Health, and if we are dealing with the fulfilment of the needs of the Polish Armed Forces, this supervision is carried out in agreement with the Minister of National Defence. However, this cooperation in the field of medical training has changed over the last several years. The successive implementation of the Act of 11 September 2003, 27 July 2005 or finally 18 March 2011 or the Act of 11 July 2014 has made the supervision of the Minister of National Defence and control of the measures transferred by him require a firm update with regard to this university, taking into account its specificities and respect for autonomy. In view of the above, the amendment of the Act concerns the implementation of the influence of the Minister of National Defence on the process of training of military medical personnel, as well as the extension of the possibility of funding by the Ministry of Defence of the National Medical University in Łódź, taking into account system solutions that are appropriate to military universities. Thus, in view of the greater needs of the Polish Armed Forces in this area, the project also assumes a change in the status of the Military and Lekarski Faculty functioning today, legally guaranteeing the department to be the basic organizational unit of the Medical University in Łódź. The department will be trained by candidates for professional service in the field of military medical personnel. The natural and necessary consequence of the above changes in the amended act is thus to ensure the influence of the Minister of National Defence on the process of appointing persons on certain functions in university authorities, preparing educational programmes and teaching activities in military and military-medical training of candidates for the purposes of the Polish Armed Forces, thereby strengthening the role of Minister of National Defence in the system of funding the activities of universities. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's amendment to the law on the establishment of the Medical University in Łódź allows it to be adapted to the challenges in a changing world and can be a milestone in the development of the medical university. All over the world, it is considered obvious and undisputed that members of the Armed Forces, who serve their homeland and risk their lives in all its aspects: physical, mental and social, for which the performance of their duties involves the risk of injury, disability or even death, can benefit from comprehensive and competent medical care for them, free of charge and available everywhere, at any time, with the word reliable. A country wishing to respect this international principle has a moral obligation to guarantee its own Armed Forces continuous medical care provided by military health services, specially trained and acting in accordance with the state's defense doctrine. If we want to complete this task, we need to create the right conditions. We believe that the amendments proposed in this draft law not only fully fulfil our assumptions, but also, which is not meaningless, will increase the prestige of the Medical University in Łódź as [[♪ The bell ♪]] universities related to national defence. Finally, I would like to stress that these changes will not result in an increase in expenditure in the state budget. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of their implementation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u169	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask you, Mr Cesare Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I want to address all doctors and paramedics in uniform. We appreciate your efforts, we appreciate your work. Thank you for taking care of our soldiers. What I'm about to say is not against you and your younger colleagues who will be studying at the Medical University of this beautiful profession. There are some cardinal values in the Republic of Poland. These values were expressed in the Constitution. And art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The 5th Constitution provides that the autonomy of higher education institutions is to be ensured in accordance with the principles laid down in the Act. This is a great achievement, not only our country's achievements, not only the Republic of Poland, but this is the achievements of the whole academic world. It is a work that has been developed for centuries and finally found expression in our basic act of the system, but also in the law, because the law in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 develops a constitutional rule of autonomy: the university is autonomous in all areas of action on the principles set out in that law. And this bill says that the basic act of the university is the statute. It is not possible to impose statutory arrangements by law. However, the draft law contained in print No 1655 introduced this kind of solution. As I said yesterday at the joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Health, this would lead to a soft militarization of universities. Why? Because the Minister of National Defence was given the authority to designate a person as a pro-Rector, to designate a person as dean and pro-Dean of the Department of Military and Lekar. How can such a solution be imposed on universities while maintaining the principle of autonomy? You can't. We reached this yesterday at the committee meeting, which is why today's report is amended. We're about to agree between the Rector and the Minister of National Defence. But that's the solution that should be in the statue. It is not possible to impose statutory arrangements by law. This bill is unnecessary. If we want to guarantee financial support to the university, to the Medical University, this can be achieved through an agreement between the Minister for National Defence and the Rector who represents the university. Solutions should go in this direction. Nor can we agree that candidates for the role of pro-Rector, dean and pro-dean are those who do not have a scientific record. It's about the prestige of this well-deserved university. That is why the amendments I make on behalf of the Civic Platform Club are heading in this direction. At the same time, I ask the High House to reject this project because the autonomy of the university is at stake, the body value, the constitutional value. We should ensure that from the Polish parliament there is no bad signal, a bad message to the academic world of the Republic of Poland. These solutions cannot be imposed by law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For these reasons, I request that the bill be rejected. However, if the House does not share this proposal, I am making the necessary amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u171	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u172	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! This law is really unnecessary, because it can be done in a normal way, as additional money has been given to a particular university many times. And here is a full agreement with my previous speaker that this can be presented on a consensual basis. I don't understand why we're really creating extra laws, creating extra books, volumes of writings that don't have such meaning or in general even meaning. The only argument that convinces that this law may be needed is the desire to take power and control over one of the universities, which is and should be condemned by all. Everyone knows that universities, all universities, have their autonomy in the choice of authorities, in the selection of all those officials who play these important roles there. And it should stay that way. In Polish history there was no such situation when the university authorities were directly imposed by the executive authority. This is an extraordinary thing, and in my opinion it is reprehensible. So I call on everyone to complete the process of this law and just do it in the normal way that this kind of funding should end, that is, through an ordinary agreement. I will encourage my clubmates to vote against this bill and vote against it in the next reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister Macierewicz! On behalf of the Modern Club, I have the honour and pleasure to present my position on the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. When you made the new ones. The law of education and the law of the law of education, I was kind of hoping it was the end of your spoils in the field of education. Minister Macierewicz, are you still short? After all, you already have the Territorial Defence Army, whose lack of effectiveness we were able to observe during the August storms, you had Misiewicz, Berczyński, and now you also want to have the Medical University in Łódź under your control. What's tomorrow? A prison facility in Wronki, or maybe a psychiatric hospital in Radom? What powers do you have to ask for the appointment of a specific person to be the pro-Rector of the Military and Lekar Department? You were an academic teacher? Do you have experience in this field? Or do you need a place to work for the next Misiewicz? According to this law, the provisions requiring a competition or an election for these functions are not applicable, and once again your whim or will be decisive. Not only can you introduce your people into the university authorities, the dean's terms of office and dean's dean's dean's office are automatically extinguished. Minister, I am aware that the appeal to you is meaningless, but I call on you, as a Member of the Parliament of the Republic, to defy the information contained in the book by Mr Tomasz Fivet and his mysteries, or to file a private indictment against the talks contained in it. It cannot be so, Prime Minister, that the constitutional minister of the Polish government is suspected of being associated with Russian services, and you and the suspects are silent. President Kaczyński, you have won the elections, you have the right to rule and change Poland, but you cannot break the law, and the ministers of your government cannot be suspected of collaborating with the intelligence of our historical and present-day political opponents. It just can't happen. Let's not make mistakes for the British, let Kim Philby continue to be a symbol of the greatest intelligence naivety. Minister Macierewicz, I am not accusing you of being a Russian agent, but the links described by Mr. Five are disturbing and I would simply like you to explain yourself to them, and if this is not true, he has told us publicly that Mr. Friday in his book is simply lying. Minister, your educational work should end definitively, preferably today - let the specialists deal with teaching matters. To sum up this project and the state to which you are going: you have made a deformity of education, calling it deceptively reform, in the name of a good change, which has turned out to be a bad change, complete chaos, disorganization, destruction of what teachers, parents, previous authors of the reform introducing the middle school, have destroyed so many years of hard work in just 1 year. Is that what you want to do with the Medical University of Łódź now? Do the tentacles of your authority always need to reach where there is the slightest opportunity to fill the stools with the next Misiewicz? The Modern Posel Club is against this bill and we will vote against it. But I'd like to make one amendment. If you decide to adopt this draft law, at least in this small way it should be better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u175	Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u176	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Health on the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. High Seym! I'm gonna say yes to the applicants right away. Of course, you can, with the majority in the Sejm, in parliament, change this area of life of Poles. You can. Just ask yourselves, " Why? What's that supposed to do? Improved functioning? Improved? Reasonable management? Of course, the logical answer should be no. If it is to serve anything at all, it is to satisfy the ambition of one person or several people. But Poland, public life in Poland will not accept this and sooner or later, I hope that earlier, this unreasonable solution will be changed - because I suspect that this parliament, this Sejm will accept it. High Seym! The Medical University of Łódź was established by the Law of 27 July 2002 from the merger of the Medical Academy in Łódź and the Military Medical Academy in Łódź. dyv. gen. Bolesław Szarecki is also in Łódź. The provisions of this law guarantee the conduct of teaching activities also taking into account the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The Minister for National Defence shall annually determine the size of the needs of the Armed Forces in the training of students in the various medical professions, as declared by the Minister responsible for health in order to set the limit for admissions to studies. And other regulations of that law stipulate that the Minister responsible for health in agreement with the Minister of Defence shall supervise the university in the field of teaching activities taking into account the needs of the Armed Forces. Another quote from the justification of this law, quoted, which states that the Minister of National Defence sets up and distributes annual grants for teaching activities for the training of students for the Armed Forces. This quite extensive quote is used to make it clear, as regards the provisions of this law establishing the Medical University of Łódź - the one you want to change - that the mechanism for training medical personnel for military purposes is clearly defined, precise and transparent. This process will not be improved by manual control of the appointment of managers, rectors, deans. This is really not the case for the effectiveness of politics, of every policy, of this educational one too. Minister, I'd like to give you an example a little by analogy. Well, the local government of the Łódź Voivodship - but in other voivodships it is similar - in its hospital facilities it has more than a thousand so-called. clinical beds and of course the entire back room: locker rooms, barges for students, for lecturers. I've never met anything like this. Nobody in Łódź or other voivodships came to mind to demand, for example. his principal or at least his principal at the university. It's a paranoid approach. There's no logic in that, there's no reason. By the way, I'm interested in Minister Gowin's opinion. In fact, this idea is a kind of vote of distrust, because who can explain to me why one government cannot agree on the number of educated students and the need for financial spending. And in conclusion, one more quote from the comments of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Conference of Rectors of Polish Academic Schools, and it reads: It should be noted that the proposed system solution leads to a situation conducive to internal conflicts in the university. Unless that's what this is about, but that's my gut. Either the rector is deprived of the ability to effectively manage the university, while taking full responsibility for the functioning of the university, or the rector does not have practical management tools, because he acts as the rector's deputy to the extent determined by the rector and on the basis of a mandate, whose scope is also determined by the rector. Let this be a warning to you and to all who wish to support this law. We - I say this on behalf of the club - are not and will not be able to support it. We will vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u177	Thank you. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. Are there anyone else willing to ask the question? If not, I'm closing the list of people like that. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome, my fellow Member. You don't have an MP? This is Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have listened attentively to the speeches over the last few dozen minutes, and I am shocked by the misunderstanding of the matter of this law and of all the matter concerning military health services. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, it was a big mistake that the Military Medical Academy or the Medical Academy in Łódź was practically liquidated. This decision has been made. In my opinion, from the perspective of a dozen years ago, it was a very bad decision. Why? Because it turns out that medical training for military health services has practically fallen to a minimum level, almost to zero in the last dozen or several years, when the military department graduates were several or dozen each year. Therefore, my question, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is worth saying here what is the deficit in terms of medical professions, military health services, how many doctors are missing in the army at the moment, how many doctors, medical experts in the field, etc., we know that the military is struggling with enormous problems in this area. I'd like to know the number of missing jobs. And I would like you, as Members of the Republic of Poland, to meet her as well. There's one more thing. I'm looking for Mr Misia, but I can't see. Mr Misilo, as a member of Radom land, I cordially invite you to Radom. There is no doubt that Radom's health care will be happy to take care of you as a special case. We'll be glad to have you in Radom. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u179	Mrs Anna Cicholska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the law on the establishment of the Medical University in Łódź is a good change, which should primarily regulate the influence of the Minister of Defence on the process of training military medical personnel and extend the possibility for the Ministry of National Defence to finance this training, taking into account the system solutions appropriate to those provided for military universities. Minister, is it true that there are no medical personnel? And were there any attempts previously made to prevent this phenomenon and to increase the military medical staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u181	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u182	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Łopata asked for the opinion of the Minister for Science. It was said by his deputy on the committee yesterday. The Minister of Science negatively assessed this project, pointed to the shortcomings of the proposed solutions and precisely the contradiction with the principle of autonomy. Few of this, also the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland expressed a negative opinion on this project in a letter dated 14 July 2017. The world of science has spoken. The Bureau of the General Council of Science and Higher Education also expressed a negative opinion in its resolution of 12 July 2017 on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. I will quote it: the Main Council does not see in the amended law any solutions affecting the improvement of the education process, which would be done by changing the way in which it is supervised by supplementing it with the Minister of National Defence. Consequently, the expiry of the term of office of the authorities on 30 September 2017 will remain a major aspect of the change. I will ask the representative of the applicants: Is it really the purpose of this law to shorten the term of office of the authorities of the Military and Medical Department? And to the Minister, I have a question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he considering reconstructing the Military Medical Academy or the Military Medical University, if that's what our army needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u183	Thank you. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Is it true that candidates for professional service in the field of military medical personnel must be trained in parallel and at the same time in terms of medical knowledge and in terms of military and military-medical training? To ensure the latter, you need a trained, well-prepared medical officer, a scientist who knows the battlefield, who will be able to prepare a medical officer to behave under extreme conditions, teach him to follow orders, teach patriotism, teach him to give orders. Such training must, in my opinion, - and I have a question for the Minister, if I am right - lead an officer with scientific status. Is there a shortage of such prepared scientific officers among military personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u185	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the reductions and changes in posts that will take place and that will occur, I am rather convinced, because I recall the situation in which you switched the National Defence Academy to the Academy of War Arts. You assured us here that there would be no reductions, exemptions, etc. It turned out that the typhoon wiped out over 100 people from such a small institution, a significant number of employees. The question is how it's gonna be with this university, what kind of staff changes this typhoon is gonna cause. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u187	Thank you. The list of persons put to the questions has been exhausted, so please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of answering questions on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence that have been raised during today's discussion. First of all, the question is, how many doctors are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, right now we have 800 unattended jobs, but that's not all, because if we count the deficiencies that are in the brigades, it turns out that this is another 200 people. In short, today around 1 000 are missing in the Polish Armed Forces. Doctors. Why did this happen? This is because over the years there has been a policy of devastation of the army, among others. Military health services. The effects are what I'm describing today. To illustrate this more, I can say that on the 13th brigade in the seven brigades there is no military health service at all, and in the six it is incomplete. In the course of the program of reducing Polish Armed Forces, military health services and training of doctors who could serve in it were also eliminated. In 2015, in this only department where military doctors can train, there were 30 sick people. Today it has changed, after 2 years in October it will start learning about 100 people, and the needs I am talking about you can see how big they are and how justified it is not to eliminate and just develop the training system of military doctors. Whether there have been attempts to counter this is a health service, this was another question of one of the parliamentarians. Unfortunately, there was no such thing as the first question. On the contrary, the number of sick people trained for future military doctors was reduced each year. Are we considering reconstructing the Military Medical Academy? Thank you, sir, for this question. That's a very valid question. Yes, we think about it, but it has to be done in a prudent way and referring to the reality of what it is today, and the reality is that due to the liquidation of the military medicine system, if you can say so, there would be insufficient staff at this moment, so that we could recreate you from day to day. These are the trials, the devastation I've been talking about for years, and now the reconstruction of the medical staff is something we can't do in a year or two, and it takes more time. But I agree with you that this is the direction that needs to be considered. It's a shame you didn't start doing this a few years ago. We've only been struggling with this problem for less than two years. I can add, when we go back to the issue of the loss we are talking about right now, because we are missing about 1,000 doctors, but if we count doctors serving in the Polish Army who have already over 50 years of age, which means they can take off their uniform and leave military service at any time, that's another 250 people that we really have a serious problem that we should all face together. Mrs Kaczorowska asked whether the podchożs have more classes than ordinary medical students. Of course I do. This is over 1000 extra hours of classes a year, which students have to take in this direction, and this is of course an additional challenge. Additional challenges are also those elements that are characteristic of military health care, that is, science related to medicine of the field of combat, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise one more point, as there has been a charge here. I do not want to refer to the allegations made by parliamentarians concerning this project and the questions to which applicants and authors of this project can answer, I have only referred to questions addressed to the Ministry. On the other hand, I would now like to refer, as a Member, not to the Deputy Minister for National Defence, to the words that have been said in this Chamber. Among other things, he appeared. The allegation that what's happening is the militarization of universities. I would like to quote you: militarisation - actions in the field of comprehensive defence preparations in the country, carried out at the time of the announcement of mobilization, martial law or during the war, consisting of the transfer of forms, methods of military organization to the departments of the state administration and the national economy and its specific units. This is a quote from a dictionary that defines what militarisation is. So if someone uses such terms, describing what might happen, if the High House accepts the proposed project, it means that they either do not know the dictionary meaning of the word I would like to appeal to you for one thing. You're attacking the government. Wherever the government and the party with the majority in Parliament actually make mistakes. This is the nature of democracy. Let us discuss, talk, argue even, it is even the wolf's law of opposition, but do not question trust in one of the most important institutions of the Polish state, which is the Polish Army. You're hurting not the current government, you're hurting the whole state. So that I have a request for responsibility for words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u189	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Mrs Kopcinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! A few things need to be explained, because I have the impression that not everyone has been familiar with the project presented. The aim of the project is to finance, because it is very important, yes, but not most importantly, but there are also some understatements. In accordance with the existing legal status, the grants that the Minister of National Defence could provide are grants related to the student admission limit. The project, which we propose, assumes that the Minister of National Defence from the Ministry of National Defence will be able to allocate additional money, in addition to the teaching grant, special grants for the financing or financing of investment costs, as well as the purchase of fixed assets and equipment. That's the fundamental difference. Until now, only a teaching grant, now, if the High Sejm accepts the proposed project, increased funding opportunities, which does not necessarily affect the conditions and quality of training of doctors at the Military and Medical Department. Another thing. The Medical University of Łódź is the only university in Poland, which has the statutoryly recorded nature of training doctors for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, and it shapes its unique character. The Medical University of Łódź is not a military university, but its nature, specificity and tasks determine the military character and this should be reflected in the structure and mode of appointment of some people in the university authorities. Therefore, it is so appropriate that the Rector for the performance of the tasks of the University for the purposes of the Armed Forces should be appointed in the light of the proposed provisions. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all This project doesn't intend to interfere with anyone. This is intended to promote the harmonious development of universities. And another important goal that none of my esteemed speakers in this room have mentioned. This project enables military doctors, i.e. graduates of the Faculty of Military and Lekarski, to continue their scientific path, if they wish, to promote, develop professionally or conduct research work at the university without taking off uniform. They have not yet had this opportunity - opportunities for professional promotion. That's all he's proposing this project. That is why I would like to say once again: there is no attempt on autonomy. The Rector with the Rector will carry out the tasks we are talking about. 800 missing military doctors, 250 military doctors over the age of 50. They're the ones who can quit now and leave. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you not see that after the liquidation of the Military Medical Academy in Łódź there was such a huge gap, such a huge gap that it must be filled immediately? We need to increase student admission limits to the Department of Military and Lekarski. Without prejudice to the state budget, the Minister for National Defence wishes to allocate increased funds. It doesn't matter to the whole university. And we will gain security because we will have trained military doctors who - once again, because it is very important for them, because it can also encourage students to arrive in this department - will be able, without giving up uniform, to continue scientific, teaching, promotion in uniform. I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u191	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u192	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. During the joint meeting of the Commission: Health and National Defence, there were differences in the positions of the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Health and the Minister for Science and Higher Education regarding the draft law, as demonstrated by the controversy raised by this proposal. Currently, the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister for National Defence, supervises the Medical University of Łódź. One of the proposed amendments to the Act is intended to make the Ministry of National Defence a real impact on the process of military training of medical personnel. Such a position seems consistent with any logic according to which Minister Macierewicz is responsible for military training. Controversy is aroused by the legal interference of MONs in the autonomy of the university. It is the Minister of National Defence to indicate the new dean and dean created under the proposed bill of the Military and Lekar Division. This procedure interferes with the independence of the rector of the university, which is a civilian university. It's an innovative solution, and we think it's worth taking advantage of. I agree with many opinions that we must take care of the proper training of Polish doctors. The problem that we need to resolve systematically is the rejuvenation of both civilian and military medical personnel. Of course, in our solutions as parliamentarians we must take into account the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Doctors are undoubtedly lacking, and our actions should focus on encouraging young people to choose medical studies and students to choose the most necessary medical specialties and stay in the country. If the establishment of the Military and Medical Faculty at the Medical University of Łódź is to improve the quality of education and increase the number of doctors in Poland, this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. In the case of the contested bill, I am concerned about the pace of work, because it is extremely important to reach a compromise on this issue between the resorts and the social side. With the hope of consensus on the various provisions of the Law, near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of further proceeding on the draft presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u193	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence and the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: - a parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the law on social assistance, - a government bill amending the Social Assistance Act (prints No 908, 1783 and 1816). I would like to ask Anna Krupka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Social Policy Commission carried out the first reading of the government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act, i.e. printing No 1783. At the same time, a draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the Social Assistance Act, print No 908, relating to similar matter has also entered the committee. The committee therefore adopted a resolution on the submission of a joint report on these two projects. As the leading committee, she accepted the government project. The Commission unanimously adopted this draft law. The position of the Council of Ministers was presented by Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska during the work of the committee. The aim of this project is to support members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, who because of age, illness and disability cannot function independently. The proposed law will introduce the possibility of exempting them in part, either entirely from the payment of the social security fee at the social security home from office or upon request. About the exemption, as in the case of the exemptions referred to in Article. 64 of the Act of 12 March 2004 on social assistance will be decided by the body setting the fee for staying at the social assistance home in the form of an administrative decision, while taking into account the possibilities and financial situation of the municipality. On the other hand, the following will be entitled to apply for exemption from the fee: the decision to grant veteran rights, the certificate of veteran authority or the card of a member of the veteran corps. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft law. No amendments were made. The Legislative Office was only authorised to make the necessary editorial and legislative amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u195	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the law on social assistance and on the government bill amending the act on social assistance, print No 1816. The aim of the proposed act is to support the members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, who because of age, illness or disability cannot function independently in everyday life, stay in a social assistance home or seek admission to it. The proposed law will apply to the people most deserved for the Republic of Poland, who, risking their own life and health, fought armedly for its independence and sovereignty. These are people who have participated actively in wars, wars and national uprisings, forming part of military formations or organizations fighting for sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Poland. Thus, the proposed law also includes persons who took an active part in the Warsaw Uprising in 1944. The project is wider than that notified by the Civic Platform Club. He treats all veterans equally. These changes should have been made a long time ago. Unfortunately, for 8 years of rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, the combatant environment has not been there. The expenditure on the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed at the beginning of the rule of law and justice was increased by PLN 5 million, while under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL were gradually reduced. In accordance with the applicable law, members of the veterans' corps shall pay a fee for their stay in a social assistance home under the general rules laid down in the Social Assistance Act. Municipalities are the authority that directs the social assistance home. The proposed amendment to the Social Assistance Act provides for the possibility of exempting members of the veteran corps from paying a fee for their stay in a social assistance home either on request, in part or in full. The exemption will be decided by the body fixing the social assistance fee in the form of an administrative decision, taking into account the possibilities and financial situation of the municipality. The document which entitles you to apply for exemption from the fee will be the decision to grant veteran rights, the certificate of veteran authority or the card of a member of the veteran corps. The regulations contained in the proposed bill will provide real financial support to the members of the veteran corps by the possibility of exempting them from the need to pay for their stay at the social assistance home. Therefore, bearing in mind the positive effects of the new solutions for those most deserved for our homeland, i.e. members of the independence battle corps, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of adopting this project as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u197	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club our position on the draft law amending the Social Assistance Act. Art. 19 of our constitution says that the Republic is taking special care of veterans fighting for independence. However, as far as welfare homes are concerned, so far the only privilege of our veterans was that they could apply for a seat in these houses outside the order. Therefore, the Civic Platform at the initiative of the M.S. Warsaw presented a project a year ago so that Warsaw's insurgents could benefit from social assistance homes free of charge, and the cost of their stay halfway covered the city of Warsaw, which was ready for it, and the government. The government has recently presented a broader project, which covers all veterans fighting for independence, and this project has been recommended by the High House's committee for second reading. However, in the course of the committee's deliberations and the analysis of this project, which the government has put forward, it is very important, I would say, that there are doubts which, however, require a certain amendment. The biggest thing that raises some objection here is that it is entrusted to municipalities at their discretion, whether the municipality can afford it or not, to help pay for social assistance in veterans' homes, i.e. some veterans can get such assistance in the charge, others will not get it, in one size or in another size, it is not known in what size, so there is no guarantee that they will be treated equally here. However, like someone present here, he said very beautifully and rightly during the committee meeting: veterans fighting for independence fought for Poland, for free Poland, and not for a free commune. And there's no reason for the state and the government and the central budget to take responsibility for the veterans. All the more so because, in many parts of this case, the government has a policy of helping veterans in the form of various additives, health rights or other things. So the same should be true at this point for veterans fighting for independence treated equally and the government should provide them with this care. I understand that the Minister had no authority on this matter in committee and defended this original position of the government, but I hope that's what the second reading is for, so that there is further discussion so that this can be changed. The case concerns 910 veterans. That's how the government calculated it. In the proposal we want to make to you as an amendment, we also propose a matter, I would say quite compromise when it comes to finance. Namely, we propose that veterans fight for independence pay a certain share in social services homes, but not more than 50% your income, your pension or your pension. In the general system, there is a rule that it pays not more than 70%. your pension or your pension. In the general system, the remaining costs must be borne by the family, unless it is proved that the family is unemployed, has no money, is on benefits - then the municipality should cover the rest. We propose that for veterans, the rest be covered by the government, i.e. the veteran pays no more than 50%. his income, his pension or his pension, and the remainder of his office is assumed by the government. The second case, which was also discussed on the committee. In addition to the veterans fighting for independence, our law on combatants and repressed persons lists a number of other categories, people who sat in camps, in Nazi camps who risked themselves, leading care, saving and covering Jews, people, Jewish people, political prisoners until 1956 and persecuted for political, religious or racial reasons. We propose that in this case, no longer veterans fight for independence, but these other different categories, apply a government solution, i.e. to authorise the municipalities to come to help them finance their stay in social assistance homes at the discretion of the municipalities. It would be really weird if the government were to shirk the responsibility completely, help our veterans fight for independence in financing their stay in social services homes and push this matter completely into municipalities. There are so many celebrations, so many times we put our veterans as a model for young people, we honor them. Therefore, when it comes to these fundamental, material matters, there should not really be such a pushover, some freedom, inequality and such simply avoiding the problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I appeal to the government to accept these amendments. It's not a big cost, 910 people aren't much. I'm placing them on behalf of Mr. Marshal's Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u199	Thank you. And I ask Mr Jarosław Porwich to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u200	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Social Assistance Act. Our position is very simple. In our view, and according to the facts, this bill is optional and not mandatory. In general, whether this law will help the combatants or not, it will be up to the authorities of the municipalities to decide whether or not they can afford it. In practice, this means that if there is no good will of the municipality, if it cannot afford it, no combatant will benefit from the benefits of this law. This is also a possibility, but let us hope that the communes will kindly approach the affairs of the veterans, about whom the government says that they deserve the Republic of Poland the most. In our opinion, the Polish state can afford to relieve these valuable people, which are less than 1 000, which will cost the state budget 10,000. zł. Therefore, as a Kukiz club15, we make a proposal, amendment, so that the cost of such people's stay in social assistance homes is covered directly by the state budget and not by the budget of local government units. These people, these combatants, they deserve it. The intention of the law is good, but the solution is weak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u201	Thank you. And Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u202	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To bow to a veteran is to face Polish history, bravery and courage, only that showing respect is not only symbolic gestures, but above all real help, real help every day for people who have not hesitated to risk their lives, health, freedom in order for our homeland to be free. And this law, to some extent, responds to this, as if it is fulfilling the sacrifices that these people have shown, to what they have decided to give of themselves, gives the possibility of free care in social services homes. Only that it is already as if at the end of the road, and we must always think of veterans as not only those who fought for our freedom, but also as those who over the next years have also made money, because after all, Polish soldiers also fought, served, sorry, in Afghanistan, in Iraq. We should start thinking about them too now, because the fact that someone is a veteran must be a symbol, we must follow these people and we must pay them the greatest tribute, because they risk their health in the name of Poland. This is, of course, a bill that goes in the right direction. It is regrettable that these different solutions have not been adopted before, but always better late than never, so we will support them. We'll also make an amendment. At the same time, I would like to make such a digression here - it is nice to present the position of the club towards a project that everyone agrees on. It'd be nice if there were more of these projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u203	Thank you. And Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We're talking about a very important matter. I will remind you that the Second Republic, although a poor country, although it was a state that arose from the confusion of the First War, from the repleting of three partitions, respected its heroes and cared for a few insurgents in January. We also have very few people today, and they are estimated at about 1 000, which we have to take care of. And it can't be optional aid, it can't be the aid the municipalities will be able to refuse. This cannot be a situation in which one of the veterans will receive this assistance, because it will be lucky that he lives in a richer municipality, and the other, with the same great merits for the Republic of Poland, will not receive such assistance, because it will be unfortunate that he lives in a municipality whose financial situation may be somewhat more difficult. That is why we are presenting an amendment that aims to eliminate this optionality from the law, an amendment that will fix this act. I ask you very much to consider and accept this change so that we can help our heroes without any doubt, help stablely and taking into account what help they deserve - what our help and gratitude they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u205	Thank you. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan... Excuse me, Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u206	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war period and on the amendment of the act on social assistance and on the government bill on amending the act on social assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by quoting the history of a 95-year-old combatant who fought in the Warsaw Uprising. The insurgent complained to the Ombudsman. A man asked not to disclose his data, but there were quotes in the media from the letter he sent to the Ombudsman. Here's one: And now I've been subjected to collective and so-called liability in violation of two principles of law. dezubekowanie - writes this 95-year-old, Warsaw insurgent - and I was not even a member of the PZPR or any related party. Please note that I am still an enemy in Poland. First I was an AK soldier, a'spitting dwarf of reaction' and a personal enemy of Comrade Bierut and Stalin, and now I am an enemy of the Nation and a personal enemy, but whose? I am now quoting those in charge of reflection to take some action. I felt that working on the Veterans' Aid Act was the right time to be interested in the relevant institutions. Back to the Veterans project: it concerns free care for people who once put their health and lives at risk, fighting for free Poland. Today they often need the care of the state and are unable to finance it. It's about people who need 24/7 care. They can take care of social welfare homes, as the Act of January 1991 states that people such as combatants, as well as some of those repressed during the war and post-war period, have priority in obtaining a place in 24-hour nursing homes. However, money may be a problem, because in the current state of affairs, staying in such a resort is paid for so-called. the average cost of monthly living of the resident. This fee is calculated according to a number of factors and forecasts established by the rules. The proposed amendment therefore goes hand in hand with the rules that apply today. The entry into force of this project will significantly improve the situation of some of the most deprived, and it must be added that the number of these people is not large. Applicants estimate that several hundred people may benefit from the proposed assistance. Of course, I support my colleagues' proposal: funding for care should be on the state's side and not on the local government's side, so I support the amendments that have been tabled. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that similar solutions will be addressed to other combatant groups. We will, of course, continue to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u207	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The great love of your beloved country, how much you must be valued! It is the duty of every human being to defend values, family, culture and homeland; to care for citizens, but also - and even above all - those who, in the name of values, which are freedom and nation, have put their health and life at stake. The aim of the proposed law is to support members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, who, due to age, illness or disability, cannot function independently in everyday life, stay or will be forced to stay in a social assistance home. The Act will apply to the people most deserved for the Republic of Poland, who, risking their own life and health, fought armedly for its independence and sovereignty. In the current legal state, members of the veterans' corps shall pay fees for their stay at the social assistance home on the general principles set out in the Social Assistance Act. The regulations contained in the proposed bill will provide real financial support to the members of the veteran corps by the possibility of exempting them from the need to pay for their stay at the social assistance home. According to the Constitutional Tribunal, the special care of the state for veterans fighting for independence, especially those who are disabled by war, must be distinguished in terms of the scope of care benefits, their quality and sustainability from such benefits to other social groups. Special care is a type of care that exceeds other forms of care provided by the State. Veterans' and invalids' privileges constitute a constitutionally permissible derogation from the principle of equality due to the particular constitutional value which is involved in the fight for independence. The dignity and honor of independence veterans require the legislator to attach importance to the declarations contained in Chapter I of the Constitution, in particular to the content of the Article. 19 constitutions. The idea of special honoring members of the corps of veterans refers to the best patriotic traditions of the Second Republic. The moral duty of the state authorities towards the veterans of the fight for independence is to support them and to help them to have a decent existence. The Circle of Free and Solidarni supports the government's proposal, while at the same time expressing the hope that the stated moral obligation of the state authorities to ensure a decent existence in the future will include all those fighting for independence of the Republic, not just those indicated in the draft by the members of the veterans corps. Through respect for veterans, we express our self-respect, our deeper values. Not only do we express our respect for the past, but we also create and respect our future and those who will be after us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u209	Thank you, Member. Is any of the other ladies and gentlemen willing to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list of people who are saved for questions. Mr Duda will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The support of those included in the corps of Veterans fighting for independence seems so obvious that it is surprising that the proposed amendment to the Social Assistance Act is only done today. Currently, these people bear the cost of staying in a social security home under the general rules laid down in the Act. Although it is possible to exempt the charges, but on general terms, it is subject to certain conditions, and it is optional. The exemption shall be decided by the determining authority and may only do so on request. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility of exempting members of the veterans' corps of independence fights from the payment of social security contributions in part or in full or on request, and this is a real financial support for these people. My question is: Why are it only now and how many people involved? Although the second part of the question was answered during the discussion, but... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u211	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u212	Thank you. What's the truth about the PiS government's relationship with our heroes? I'm in a hurry to explain. The Polish government doesn't want to give a single zloty to our veterans, so he put the community's job on it and tells these municipalities: if you have money, pay and if you don't, don't pay. Is the Polish state, the PiS state so poor that it cannot afford to help its heroes to give them a decent life? Let me remind you: Didn't Prime Minister Beata Szydło herself say that it's enough for everything but not stealing? So it's a simple conclusion. If there is enough for anything, then where is the environment expected to record in this law that the state, specifically the state budget, will cover completely, 100% Our veteran's stay at the welfare home? Here is a simple conclusion: Since there is no such record, it means that you stole money from veterans. Specifically, the PiS government stole money from veterans. I'm asking you where the money is and who did you give it to? These are our heroes. We're proud of them. These are people who deserve respect and state aid, so all the environments expect this help for our heroes and we absolutely ask for this help and demand it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u213	Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Social Assistance Act aims to improve the situation of the veterans of the independence battle corps. Minister! Will the veterans currently staying in social services be able to benefit from the exemption from social services? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u215	Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a parliamentarian, I have not had my first term of office for many years to propose an increase in government spending on combatants. And for many years, the governments of the Civic Platform and the PSL, these amendments to the budget here in this room, have been rejected by the ruling Civic Platform and PSL. Because of this insolence, these are the questions you're asking. We're talking about the system. You have to think about what the system is. Some people don't know what the system is. The system of payment for social services houses is financed by local governments. That's the whole system built. You need to know this system. We help the veterans. We're also increasing resources for veterans. And look into it. I just have a question for the Minister to tell you exactly what the spending on the D.A. looked like. Veterans and spending for those in need from 2007 to 2016, when the Government of Law and Justice joined and raised these expenditures, in order to accurately illustrate here the opposition from the POs and PSLs, which impudently attacks to show that only the Government of Law and Justice is behind the combatants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u217	Mrs Anna Krupka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Will veterans whose health condition does not allow them to submit an application, or those who do not have knowledge of the amended legislation in this regard, be eligible to be exempt from payment for their stay in a social assistance home? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u219	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the purpose of this law is absolutely noble and we have no doubt about it. The problem is that it's about how you respect veterans for what they've done for our country, and it's not about the records you've proposed in this bill. On the one hand, you are talking about noble goals, on the other hand, they are shifting the burden of funding to local governments. Of course, in such a way that this depends on the financial situation. So either this is an individual release that concerns those important to our history, or it's just a scam and it's complicated just to show some activity in the public debate on this subject. I judge this idea of funding, which you have presented, very critically, because it is simply unworthy to shift this responsibility to local governments. But I have a question for the Ministry about financial matters. Somewhere there was such an amount that the support programme of this group would cost about PLN 10 million a year. I have a question: Don't you think that it would be better for the funds that today are dedicated to this billbaord dull campaign promoting the PiS programme, the 19 million PLN allocated to this dull campaign, to finance the care of veterans? [[What does this have to do with the state budget?]] It is, sir, that they are companies of the Treasury, they form foundations, they could do something good for Poles, not just for the PiS. Thank you very much. [[But it's not a state budget.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u221	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How many lies and hypocrisy do you have to have to tell the war veterans that we've provided you with a free stay at the welfare home? That's not true. You lay this obligation on the municipalities, on the local governments, not even giving them a zloty. This is really hypocritical. Today in the Social Assistance Act in Art. 64 is explained, it is very well stated that exemption from such a charge is possible, e.g. because of long-term illness. However, by actually granting this free stay, which means not making the veterans pay out of their own pockets, you should give this money to the local governments. It's just over 900 people. Can't you afford it? This is really hypocritical. In our bill, we propose that it be a duty of the state. As far as the others are concerned, victims of war repression, sibiracs, let it be a matter of recognition for local governments. It cannot be that the local government will optionally decide whether or not a given veteran will be paid from the municipal budget. How will these veterans feel if in commune X one veteran in a similar situation, or the same - profitable, family, will have to be co-financed from the commune and another will have to pay? After all, you war veterans today are divided into better and worse ones, depending on where the community lives. It is not the income situation of the municipality that should decide whether anyone will have this payment financed from the municipality or not, but absolutely it should be imposed in advance that yes, all veterans are exempt. I think that's what they're expecting. Therefore, accept and consider this bill that we are proposing. Thank you. [[In your reign, everyone was fired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u223	Thank you. [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Art. 64.]] The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am replying to Mr Duda, why only now. It is difficult for me to answer, it is difficult to take responsibility because I was not, I do not represent the government of PO-PSL and 8 years of those governments. We'll do it as soon as possible. How many people are in social services today? It's about 900 people. With regard to local governments, I would like to remind you that running social services houses is a task of our own local government, as we discussed yesterday at the committee meeting. At the same time, I would like to stress that the joint committee of the government and the local government, which gave an opinion on this project, has given it a positive opinion. It should be noted that it is an honor and honor for the local government that there are members of the combat veterans corps in its territory. It's hard to imagine a local government wouldn't exempt a veteran from his fees. It's hard to believe if today we have 900 combatants in social services homes that 2497 municipalities can't afford it. Please compare what the reference is. On the other hand, it should be stressed that the self-government party has put forward requests for the introduction of an independent legal basis in the Social Assistance Act to exempt veterans from paying for their stay in a social assistance home. Veterans wishing to be exempted from payment had, first, to submit applications for exemption, second, to fulfil the conditions of Article. 64 Act on Social Assistance, i.e. to show long-term illness or disability. Following the entry into force of the proposed law, veterans will be able to obtain a full or partial exemption from payment for their stay in a social security home and will not have to meet these conditions. Thus, this bill corresponds to the expectations expressed by the local government. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej asked who stole it. Well, maybe we should let the data answer that, show us how much they've been spent. [[But you said there was enough for everyone.]] [[Don't bother the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u225	Mrs Kołodziej, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: I would like to say that in 2015, when Minister Elżbieta Rafalska took office, one of the first decisions was to restore the amount of funds of the Veterans' Office, i.e. to help the veterans, it was 5 million PLN, and therefore we returned to the amount of about 15 million PLN, that was the amount we had in 2007 when he ruled PiS. [[What will you say now?]] So we ended 2007 with an amount of about 15 million on veterans, but in the following years we had much less, because it was 10 million and then 9 million. We did not return to this amount until 2016. That's what we're holding up. [[Applause]] Therefore, we have the answer to the question asked. With regard to the question of whether veterans currently staying in social assistance homes will be able to benefit from the exemption from the payment of their stay at the social assistance home, of course yes, because the law will apply both to people who are only going to the social assistance home and to current residents of these houses because the application for exemption from payment can be made at any time. In addition, the draft law contains a transitional provision relating to proceedings for exemption from payment for a social assistance home where an application for exemption from payment has already been made on the basis of the provisions in force, i.e. according to Article. 2 the proposed law will apply new, more favourable provisions to these proceedings. It was also a question whether veterans whose health condition does not allow them to submit an application, or those who do not have knowledge of the amended legislation, could be exempt from payment for their stay in a social assistance home. Draft law in the proposed article. 64b. 1 allows you to exempt from payment for your stay in a social assistance home upon request, but also gives you the possibility to apply an ex officio exemption, which - I would like to point out - is not possible in today's legal state. In summary, different from other provisions on the exemption from payment for a social security home, Veterans will be allowed to take proceedings for exemption from payment for their stay in the DPS from the office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993 (prints No 1775 and 1805). I would like to ask Mr Mark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993 in print No 1775. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading yesterday and after considering this draft law, requests that the High Sejm adopt a draft law on printing without amendment. A few words of justification. This agreement concerns the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic. It was signed in 1993, i.e. before Poland entered the European Union. The European Commission is currently calling this agreement into question as incompatible with EU law and recommends that it be terminated. In addition, the committee is considering the initiation of a formal non-compliance procedure, inter alia. that agreement with EU law. Since this is not our only agreement, the Government proposes a comprehensive solution for all Member States to decide simultaneously to terminate such agreements by mutual agreement under the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties, or, in the absence of unanimity, to terminate such agreements under the conditions laid down in those agreements or on the basis of an agreement between the parties without an investment protection clause, which would be the best option. However, it follows from the consultations with the Portuguese Republic that Portugal is not currently interested in the termination of the agreement. Given that its termination can only take place in the period prior to the end of its 5-year duration, it is appropriate to terminate the agreement now, which will lead to compliance with European Union law with Polish-Portuguese relations in the field of economic cooperation within 10 years of the expiry of the agreement, as this is exactly how much protection of mutual investment is required. The explanatory memorandum also states that before the Court of Justice proceedings are pending on the application of the German court for a preliminary ruling, namely in this case the German court asked the Court whether the enforcement of a judgment under that agreement would not infringe the provisions of the Treaties on the prohibition of discrimination with regard to Article. 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Poland has joined the procedure by expressing its position as to the contradiction of these agreements with Union law. The position similar to the Polish Republic was taken by the European Commission and many countries of the regions. Briefly on the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau. The Sejm Analysis Office welcomes the termination procedure. As I said, the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously adopted yesterday this bill on the termination of this agreement, as I ask on behalf of the committee of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u227	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to speak with Mr Konrad Głębocki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u228	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports this government submission, which proposes the termination of an international agreement in the form of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. It is worth noting first of all that the European Commission considers this agreement, as well as all such agreements, to be incompatible with European Union law. The European Commission has already taken advanced legal action against each Member State in implementing this agreement. It is worth mentioning as an example This is Holland, Austria or Sweden. The Commission's actions against Poland are not so advanced. Preliminary, informal proceedings, so-called: The EU Pilot, which was launched already in June 2015, has been completed, but further formal steps by the European Commission are not yet in place. The operation of such agreements, which are in principle contrary to European Union law, also their termination with further obligation due to the sunset clause creates a major legal mess, so this should be resolved by one pull in order to remove this mess. And there's actually two possibilities here. For example, one possibility is the European Court of Justice, which might find these agreements incompatible with European law, but here it would be necessary to act on the part of the EU authorities, and some Western countries are against it, and, unfortunately, there is no action by these European authorities here. Another possibility is to rely on the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties of 1969 and at the same time to terminate these agreements - whether mutual agreement on the termination of these agreements - by all Member States. But there's no reason to count on that, either, for the reasons I told you earlier. Besides, such a solution, so that, in one instance, I say, end the whole matter, is supported by the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including Spain, Italy, but unfortunately some Western countries are against it. I think what the European Commission is saying, these legal issues, is quite obvious. It is in the case-law of the TSUE that is very well established. With regard to the primacy of European Union law, there is always the simultaneous existence of very similar solutions in other legal acts, other than acts of Union law, which cause some confusion, a legal mess in the Union. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u229	Thank you. Mr Marek Grunkles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on termination of the contract. Since as rapporteur I discussed the bill and the contract itself, I will only allow myself to inform the High House that the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u231	Thank you. Mr Piotr Appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u232	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we have no choice but to say what the rules we have agreed upon require of us. On the other hand, I would just like to express my opinion that, of course, it would be better if this agreement were terminated by mutual consent, of course it would be better if all these bilateral agreements were terminated automatically. All I have to believe is that the Polish side, the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, did everything to make it so. It didn't work, so we have to make this bill, so we're going to vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u233	Thank you. Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 March 1993 an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. It is now being challenged by the European Commission because it is incompatible with European Union law. The current legal status provides the investor and his investment from the State party to the agreement in the territory of the other party of the agreement with full protection and the possibility of redress before the international arbitration tribunal. The European Commission points out that the above. the agreement and its specific provisions overlap or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of the free movement of capital, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services and the fundamental principles of European Union law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, effectiveness and legal certainty of the European Union. The termination of the agreement should therefore not have any negative political consequences, as both the Republic of Poland and the Portuguese Republic were called before the European Commission and it will be terminated, hopefully, by mutual agreement. Modern will fully support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u235	Thank you. And Mr Mark Sawicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers, especially the rapporteur, Mr Marek Krzakła, discussed the whole project in detail. I can only add that I hope that in this case one swallow will make spring, since the Government of Law and Justice respects the European Commission's recommendations and goes out with the project. As a PSL, we will support this with the hope that the next recommendations of the European Commission will be treated in a similar way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u237	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for your support. I'm just gonna give you an explanation of why everyone here doesn't agree on the deal. European countries need to be divided into net capital donors and net recipients. And practically those who accept capital want to terminate these contracts as soon as possible, and the logical thing is that those who give capital do not want to terminate them, and hence all these plays. So it's hard for all of them to say it together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u239	Thank you. The rapporteur? [[No.]] Well, thank you, then. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo, due to the absence of the rapporteur to the next point, until we locate her, I will announce a technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 11 hours 15 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development (prints 1713 and 1743). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development in print 1713. At its 46th meeting of 18 July 2017, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this project at its meetings on 20 July and 12 September 2017, requests the High House to adopt a draft law in accordance with the attached draft. In addition, I would like to say that 34 amendments were tabled during the committee's work, 14 amendments were accepted by the committee and one minority request was submitted by the committee at the request of the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u241	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of civil society, the creation of legal bases and sources of funding for NGOs is a problem that has been under discussion in the third sector for many years. There is a need for an active state policy in this area. This is a demand for this environment. Ladies and gentlemen! On important social issues, there is always a need for discussion on important civil matters. But in order to act efficiently in order to exercise power in the way that society expects, there must be an end to discussion time and debate time, there must be concrete solutions and concrete proposals. You probably know that there are two types of policy-making. They can be characterized by this: There are politicians who, if they say they will do something, they say, and there are politicians who, if they say they will, take action and keep their word. This is the case for cooperation in the field of civil society building. During the first reading we learned that these postulates were already formulated in 2015, 2011, 2012. This project to raise the profile of civil society building was also included in the legislative and justice agenda. And today, the government has put forward concrete legislative proposals to the House in this project, which we are currently working on. This project responds to the demands of the NGO environment. As for our debates at the first reading and committee meeting, you were very strongly accused that the project was not consulted that NGOs could not comment on this. This was absolutely not confirmed by the data from the Ministry or from the applicants regarding the consultations held and was not confirmed by representatives of many NGOs. Well, I wanted to make it very clear that this project was subject to a wider than standard public consultation. 23 meetings were held throughout the country, involving more than 1000 people from 854 NGOs. Many of the suggestions, from the comments, were included in the draft law. This is not enough, the Council also expressed its satisfaction with the draft law and broad consultation with the votes of the non-governmental and local government and almost unanimously adopted a resolution on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development is a milestone in organising space for the development of civil society. The solution adopted by the law for setting up a Public Benefit Committee as a constitutional body of government administration is a groundbreaking solution. We cannot accept absolutely such an argument that, as regards the location of non-governmental organisations, public benefit in the department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this is a place where we can cooperate, organise and create conditions of action for non-governmental organisations and the building of civil society. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, the Government of Law and Justice raises the issue of citizens' society to the status of institutions in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. This brings incredible opportunities to coordinate the work of the ministries, to develop government support programmes for civil society. There is also absolutely no threat to [[♪ The bell ♪]] existing activities that took place within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as the fund of initiatives will be entirely transferred to the new institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u243	Thank you. And Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say good morning to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Glinski, who has the face of this unfortunate project, or to say good morning to Mr. Agent Lipinski, because I don't think he's in this room either. [[There it is.]] Oh, there he is, he's here. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the middle of a second reading of the bill on the National Institute of Freedom - the Centre for Civil Society Development and I regret that you do not want to take a step backwards, Minister, to sit together at the table, together with the third sector, to develop the records that NGOs expect and want. You are pushing a bill that is undesirable and unwanted by the third sector. You create your own private concept, which was supposed to be one of the tools of the civil society development programme, which, I will remind you, is not there until today. You've already shown what government cooperation with NGOs is supposed to look like. The victims of your discretionary decisions are already those who deal with equality, the fight against violence against women, those who protect against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, what we see, even if watching programs broadcast by national television. You are saying that civil society issues are currently lost in the themes of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, hence the establishment of a central structure for the development of civil society. Central management - National Institute of Freedom. But I don't think you realize to this day how much this means administrative chaos. Today, the key institutions for NGO activities were the Council - today there is still - public benefit and the Department of Affairs. public benefit. Following the changes in civil society matters, the National Centre for Civil Society Development will, firstly, be dealt with by the National Council of the National Centre for Civil Society Development, thirdly, by the Council of Public Use Activities, fourthly by the Committee on Public Benefit and its Chairman, fifthly by the Department of Civil Society at the President's Registry, sixthly by a representative for civil society and equal treatment, i.e. the present Minister Lipiński, currently very, very marginalised institution. You create, ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy that NGOs don't want, you create an authoritarian state and you want to steer the third sector. That is the main objective of this law, and that is why you are taking over financial control and giving the director of the national institute the freedom to single-personise the rules of each competition, without uniform rules, which raises the obvious concern of everyone that the regulations will be written for the needs of some organization and against other organizations. You share civil society, you put labels on non-governmental organisations, and the NGOs have different sensitivities, Minister, different world views, but they certainly always had one thing in common - a country based on the Constitution and the empowerment of non-governmental organisations in a democratic country, but also, above all, the dialogue that my previous Member spoke of here. Member of the Commission, I was at the OFIP. You weren't there. I was between NGOs. They came to Warsaw for the Polish Non-governmental Initiatives Forum, which takes place once every 3 years. At this specific time, I wanted to hear from the inside what it looks like and what these organizations think. I didn't find a non-governmental organization among the representatives of that half a thousand who would speak well of this bill. Today there is no dialogue, although the third sector asks for a discussion, which states: we do not want this law, because it is unnecessary and does not solve any of our problems. Minister Gliński during the panel of this year's OFIP said that the bill implements certain ideas that were born in the third sector, and as proof of this shows his article from 2014, only, High Izbo, is already September 2017, since 2014 there have been many positive changes. After all, it was during the Platform's and PSL's cooperation with the third sector that very long-awaited changes were made by NGOs. New, friendly rights for public collections, grants for security organisations, principles of good public consultation and joint programmes with resorts. They were complemented by the simplifications and simplifications introduced. Today we should continue these changes, discuss them at a common table, together, because NGOs need a good, friendly climate, they need a friendly law and, above all, independence and they want to be away from politics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the bill doesn't specify how to judge... competitions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Club is, of course, opposed to this evil and unnecessary, and unwanted act by NGOs. However, we want to improve it a little so that the legal framework does not come up, and we are making amendments that are identical to the voice of NGOs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u245	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 against the procedated draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. I'm gonna start by saying that this whole bill is just full of contradictions. It is difficult to see any reference to the diagnosis and justification contained in its description. The justification of the law, which sets up a new institution with an additional 60 posts, whose maintenance will cost around 30 million a year, is to strengthen and support small NGOs in their development. Civil society has been built in Poland for 30 years and the most important element of this construction is the involvement of the organisations themselves in this process. As the name suggests, construction takes place outside the government, based on civic activity. The government is to create conditions and not disturb, and the organisations themselves indicate how and what they expect - to do their jobs, participate in the process of decision-making, simplifying procedures, transparency, equality, transparency in the action of the state towards this sector. Unfortunately, this law does not meet any of these expectations. The Act points to the promotion of small rural NGOs, and - the first example from the shore - the seat of the National Institute of Freedom is Warsaw. The law is supposed to be technical, i.e. it contains organizational solutions, and it is preceded by an ideological preamble. Although I personally do not mind its content, I believe that this is nothing to do with the principle of freedom, freedom of opinion and the organisation of citizens around these views. All the tasks that have been assigned to the new institution can as much as possible be carried out by the organisations themselves and be commissioned by means of a competition. The sector is mature and effective enough to offer interesting, civic and cheaper solutions. You write that you want to simplify the procedures for ordering tasks so that organisations can apply for the resources to carry out these tasks. At the same time, another procedure is introduced in the proposed law, separate from that contained in the Public Use Act. New prints, new regulations, new departments of successive officials. Is that supposed to be a simplification? We now have a Council of Public Use Activities, which is advisory and representative of the position of the non-governmental sector, and after this law comes into force, we will also have a Committee on Public Benefit and the National Council of the Institute of Freedom, which means that there will be three councils with a significant advantage of government representation, not non-governmental organisations. Is that supposed to be another simplification? This is all to really distribute PLN 60 million, because the bill only announces some additional funds. PLN 60 million from the Civil Initiative Fund. He's applying over 5,000 a year to this fund. organisations that often perform important tasks for the state: education, culture, national heritage, helping the weaker and the disabled, monitoring of power. Organisations need to prepare good projects, compete with each other with high quality, efficiency, low costs in order to get this money. In fact, money gets 1/4 of those organizations that make good projects, 3/4 walks away. Very often, for a small amount of money, they can do more for the local community than many state institutions. None of them are privileged, like e.g. The Polish National Foundation, which received without any competitions, requirements and quality assessments of the operation of PLN 100 million for statutory purposes. If the government wanted to promote Poland outside the country and wanted to allocate this PLN 100 million, it was enough to announce competitions for NGOs. There would be hundreds of those who would do it much better and cheaper. Why 100 million PLN did not hit e.g. to this planned national civic institute and they were not subjected to their competition procedure, the procedure of a transparent competition, but we just have pathology? The government creates a foundation, allocates public money there, theoretically creates a foundation which is to be non-governmental, but in fact it is government-based and allows to carry out campaigns which for 19 million PLN convinces to reform, to which 80% of Poles are simply convinced. This foundation is not subject to the same rules as the other non-governmental ones, the ones I mentioned, or the 5,000. Why? Because he's doing what the ruling party wants? I ask the question: Will the national civic center actually share money according to a similar key? In addition to dozens of new officials, additional, insignificant opinion-makers and announcements of new procedures in this law, we do not see any answers to the right - I would like to stress: rightly - diagnosed in the justification for the need of the non-governmental sector. So the question is: What is the real purpose of this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u247	Mrs Joanna Schmidt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the factors affecting the development of civil society is trust, trust in co-workers, business partners, authorities, government, officials, public institutions. The experience of the rule of law and justice and the way in which law is made in this Chamber are far from talking about any trust. When discussing the draft law on the National Institute of Freedom, which is intended to promote civil society, we have the worst possible suspicions, the suspicion that a muzzle will be imposed on NGOs which suppress all organisations that do not belong to the so-called. A better sort. After all, the State in the preamble itself indicates what kind of organisations will be covered by special care, for example in the article. 24 laws, where among the tasks of the Institute you mention the maintenance and dissemination of culture and rooted in the Christian heritage of national and local traditions, the maintenance of Polishness and the development of national, civic and cultural awareness. In your explanatory statement, you say that above all, organisations from small towns that deal with historical and patriotic issues will gain recognition in the eyes of the institute. Where in these tasks is the problem of social inequality and discrimination based on sex, age, disability, sexual orientation? Where are projects supporting tolerance, diversity, openness? Where are the ecological projects? Why are we not referring to a broad canon of European values, focusing mainly on what is local, folk and inbreeding? Is the rosary circle really going to be the role of a citizen during the term of Law and Justice while singing patriotic songs? Half of the poverty, if that were the case, but in my opinion - not only in my opinion, because such signals are received from NGOs - this project will support ONR organisations and their talks in schools promoting xenophobia and hatred. After all, it is nobody other than Prime Minister Gliński, your Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Law and Justice, at one of the rallies of the Polish Gazeta Club said: you are real Polish civil society. So we have a new division into this real civil society, and it's not true -- the real one that supports the PiS -- the good ones, the obedient ones, and the bad ones, because it's critical of power. Most non-governmental organisations that took part in a rapid public consultation have found it unnecessary to set up this institute and to direct the development of civil society to be completely absurd. On behalf of the Modern Club, I apply to reject the law in its entirety at second reading. If this request were rejected by the Sejm majority, we would make appropriate amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker has basically told me everything. Mrs Wargocka, I would like to say that you have only expressed your opinion to your club because all the clubs, both Kukiz and the Civic Platform or the Modern Platform, all those who belong to these clubs, oppose this law, say that it is wrong. This is a bill that destroys what has been developed over the past 30 years. And that is contrary to what Prime Minister Gliński said when he was not yet a politician and was not in the Government of Law and Justice. He said that civil society has been created for years and can be destroyed very easily. And that's what you're doing right now. That opinion you were making is only the opinion of the Law and Justice. I wish it were marked. This project is devastating. On the one hand, we are dealing with a very large influence of the Council of Ministers on the work of this institute, and on the other hand, the impact of the representatives of the third sector is very, very small. These proposals, which you are proposing, marginalise the impact of NGOs' representatives also on the process of functioning of the Institute. The solutions you are proposing differ from the standards concerning, among other things, the standards. participation of representatives of NGOs in the distribution of public funds. You don't listen to the voices of non-governmental organizations at all. There have been devastating opinions of both the Council of Public Benefit Activities, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, for example. The Association of Polish Cities. You don't listen at all. You don't want to listen because you do exactly as you do in other areas. I therefore make a few amendments if this proposal is not rejected if we have to talk about this law at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u251	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's draft law on the National Institute of Liberty has recently been negatively assessed by representatives of local organisations. The Forum of NGOs had no doubts, we have no doubts. What PiS is proposing is nothing more than a recidivism of the Polish People's Republic, and it is in the worst possible edition. [[Don't exaggerate.]] This horrible creation might be suitable for the scenario of the next part of the Bear, it might be funny there, but in the real world it is more embarrassing than ridiculous. What else do you call central government oversight of NGOs? This is ridiculous. I immediately recall from the history lesson what was happening in Poland and other satellite countries of the USSR before 1990, where the centrally planned economy was functioning, called prescriptive resolution. Its characteristic was that it was based on 3-year, 6-year and similar plans, according to which the State was to implement the assumptions decided by the central authority. These decisions concerned inter alia. the type of production, as well as the fair distribution of goods in society. Ladies and gentlemen, you want this to be the case now with the distribution of resources into culture. This is outrageous, because I have no doubt that you will try to corrupt politically NGOs. You will tell them: either you will act on the political agenda of the PiS, or goodbye, you will not receive a grant. You're clearly capable of anything in this area. You were able to throw school readings off the list, e.g. Witkacza, and put there a little-known poet called the Smoleńsk bard. This is your true face, which today has begun an attack on non-governmental organisations. Moreover, we see how you operate today within the Polish National Foundation, which you have created to promote Poland abroad. With our money, you spend $20 million on party billboards. When it comes to making a party campaign, this story has happened once before. In 1929. Piłsudski ordered the then Minister Gabriel Czechowicz to exceed the budget. He forced him to transfer PLN 8 million to the fund at his disposal. Piłsudski spent this money on the election campaign of his block of cooperation with the government, and Czechowicz stood before the Court of State for this. Keep up the good work, and you're not gonna miss the Court of State either. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party will be against the PiS prying and against the imposition of chains on non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u253	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The bill, which today is called the Law on the Institute of Freedom - the training centre of non-governmental organisations, from the very beginning aroused controversy among the most interested in the content of this law, i.e. social activists, non-governmental activists, civil activists. Mr Huskowski spoke about these doubts on behalf of our circle in the debate on 12 July, quoting extensive passages of positions, opinions that have been formulated by many such organisations, including those that seem close to the heart of Prime Minister Gliński or the Government of Law and Justice at all, such as Caritas. The work on the draft in committee, which was conducted on 20 July and yesterday, mostly, almost everyone, I would say, these reservations, did not resolve these doubts. I have a record of the committee meeting on 20 July. I'll be, among others. He was referring to the quotes from that protocol. I would like to draw particular attention to two issues which are of further concern to us. We do not understand why the proposal to amend the article was rejected in committee work. 30, which would rule out the possibility for the Institute to carry out its own project activities, because today the Institute can, of course, be one of the rivals to non-governmental organisations of the institutions, and this obviously should be avoided, taking into account the logic and transparency of the activities of the state institutions. Nor do we understand why the very sensible and legitimate amendments to the article were rejected. 31, which spoke very clearly and directly about open competitions for offers in support of institutional development of non-governmental organisations. Rejecting these amendments and leaving the wording of this article as it stands gives too much room for public resources to be available for this purpose. However, the most important question that arises during the debate on this law is, first, indeed: Why? What's another institution for? On 12 July, Mr Huskowski spoke about this. 60 new jobs, a new institution - the arguments have already been made in this debate - another committee, another council, another director. Is it really a question of fishing in muddy water, as the old Polish proverb says? This, as you well know, means the lack of transparency of the rules and the possibility of manual control, either for the benefit of your own environment or even for your own benefit, decisions in the use of public funds. It could be said that this is an argument that is too far-reaching, an accusation and anxiety that goes too far, but the story with the Polish National Foundation, which was called to promote the Republic of Poland in the international arena, and spends 20 million PLN on a promotional campaign informing about the assumptions of government policy, proves that such tendencies are simply that you have to make such decisions, to such steps. The second serious reservation, which relates to the content, but also to the idea of the preamble which was proposed for this law - as I said, I will refer to the quote from the committee meeting of 20 July, where representatives of NGOs have expressed their objections, saying that it is too obvious that it suggests politicising the decisions taken on the allocation of funds. What was the answer of Prime Minister Gliński? This law is intended to create the conditions for the development of civil society. We create conditions, while regarding how it will be implemented, it may be implemented depending on the political team that will rule in Poland. So the originator, initiator, deputy prime minister of this government clearly announces that politics will have the primacy of quality in allocating funds to NGOs, that politics, which is very clearly defined in this preamble, will decide who gets the money and who does not get the money. Finally, the third argument, the most important one, was that we asked for a public hearing. Well, what kind of bill, if not this one, should be the subject of a public hearing? This public hearing was rejected in committee, which is why on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats [[♪ The bell ♪]] I request that this project be rejected at second reading. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u255	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u256	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u257	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. The preamble to the Act contains declarations of responsibility for the people and local communities, solidarity with those in need. This model of civil society, in my opinion, should be and is included in this project. The contested bill provides for the creation of a National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. The establishment of this institute will allow supervision, coordination and cooperation between public administrations and public benefit actors. The contested law is not, as some say, a technical law which merely transfers the powers of the Minister responsible for social security matters to the newly created institution. In my opinion, this law finally allows the State's policy towards NGOs to be rationalised. Despite the outrage of many people representing the social side, I would like to point out that many countries centrally direct policies towards social organisations. I consider such a phenomenon to be completely natural and even necessary. In line with the new provisions, the fund for non-governmental organisations will be placed in the structures of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and will be subject to supervision, which underlines the importance that the government attaches to this type of activity. I am not convinced that these competences should not be transferred to one of the ministries below, e.g. Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I do not share the concern of many people that the funds allocated to NGOs can be freely distributed by the Institute's Director. Any expenditure shall be governed by the Law on Public Use and Volunteering and shall therefore be covered by competitions. It could be considered that there are not enough representatives of non-governmental organisations on the National Council of the Institute and that they do not have the expected impact on its operation. However, we must remember that this is a government body that is subject to government control, although it is dedicated to citizens and is intended to meet their expectations. The bill under review has the opportunity to build permanent foundations for social capital, which will lead to civil society being established in line with our times. I hope that this will be a society in which tradition, patriotism and respect for history will go hand in hand with looking to the future. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the contested law which, after many years of chaos, will sort out matters relating to the functioning of public benefit entities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u259	Thank you. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to ask a question? If so, please sign up. I would like to be the first to ask Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Agent! Dear Mrs Wargock, You have spoken a lot about civil society, but I propose that you read the definition of civil society. I would like to mention it to you, but I will be running out of time, so I will pass it on as soon as I speak, because I have the impression by participating in this bill that you have completely missed the idea of civil society. Let me remind you that for many years after the times so-called. Folk democracy, from which you are so relinquishing, toilfully, day by day, with the participation of many NGOs, has been able to instill the idea of civil society and it works perfectly. All he needs to do is help him, but somehow you can't see this help in this project, because in this bill, the only sensible, concrete proposal of the government is to set up a central agency that will have money for NGOs. Answer: Is it true, then, that this money will be distributed discretionaryly, and will they be able to use it to maintain their agency? Is it true that they will be frozen for a few months, thus destroying NGOs that depend on this money? Please answer me. [[Applause]] And I will give you the definition.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u261	Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What will be the work of NGOs after this project has entered into force, today it is easy to imagine. Just look at what the Polish National Foundation does, for whom it actually works and what it serves. And it serves the pursuit of party interests. But the foundation is not enough, which is why you want to take over the third sector, so important in a democratic country and so important for building civil society. You want to control him. You want to own organizations to do your business. And those organizations that won't agree to this, they won't agree to your vision, you'll simply eliminate them by removing them from the grant, from the funding. Is that really the purpose of this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u263	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Civil society institutions in Poland - as the applicant points out in the explanatory memorandum - are enclaves and are among the weakest and relatively least numerous in Europe. They play a marginal role in our social life. A third of the organisation has a budget of less than 10,000. zł. Another 40% the organisation has a budget of 100,000. zł. Only 5% out of which there is a budget of more than 1 million. These organisations have a number of problems related to the application for public funds or cooperation with local authorities and various other problems. The proposed law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development is intended to be a remedy for many problems of the non-governmental sector and is intended to strengthen the development of civil society in Poland. I believe that this will happen, but also a serious problem for some non-governmental organisations, especially the small ones - which I would like to draw attention to here - is that reporting is required, according to the representatives of these organisations too extensive. Shouldn't the government consider the possibility of significantly simplifying reporting for small organisations, following the Public Procurement Law, which sets a limit of 30 000. Euro releasing from cumbersome procedures? Couldn't a similar limit - not necessarily expressed in euro and not so high - be applied to a decisive simplification of the report to a few, perhaps a dozen or so points of the form just for these small organisations? Let me remind you that today it is several hundred elaborate and nothing and no one serving information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u265	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've never had enough time to ask questions until two minutes. And I have a very short question. Is this for you, Mr. Wojciech Kaczmarczyk, prepared for this profitable position? Who are you going to be? Chairman of the committee or director of the institute? I'd like to hear the answer today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u267	Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A horse with the order of who will explain how the central control of civil society development is intended to contribute to the more effective spending of funds allocated to the implementation of non-governmental organisations' programmes. Where is this miraculous mechanism in the Act to make NGOs more efficient in the management of public funds? I ask you to answer that question. Which is the article, which points, possibly some hidden wording, which I did not see in any of the articles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u269	Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have just removed from the box the answer of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister to the questions concerning the project under investigation. In response to one of them, just the answers from the law firm, I read: The National Institute of Freedom is to implement state policy on the development of civil society based on the principles of openness, competitiveness and transparency. Very beautiful, the answer really should satisfy us all. So I would like to ask you: What were you afraid of, not agreeing to a public hearing? After all, it is a form of the most active participation of citizens in the process of law-making. It's hard to imagine - it's to vote off non-governmental organisations. And, ladies and gentlemen, the public consultation is not a public hearing, the public hearing is subject to appropriate rules. I would also like to ask you whether you have become familiar with the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, on the OSCE's opinion on the project under investigation. And most importantly, Minister: Did the project come out of the environment of non-governmental organisations? Does this project respond to the problems of the third sector? And was it based on a comprehensive strategy to support civil society? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u271	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The activity of citizens engaging on a voluntary basis in actions for the common good is a measure of civil society's development. NGOs are taking on more and more tasks for environments or local development. Despite a significant increase in their number, Poland is still far behind countries such as: Sweden. Many other countries are also far ahead of us. Why is the Polish government, instead of supporting the development of non-governmental organisations, respecting their independence and helping them with their activities, taking initiatives that inhibit this development and squander social capital? Because what do we call actions to centralise funding or try to subjugate NGOs to the governing party? Financial subjection in the first place, but this is very important and unacceptable. This is a huge mistake, which will result in the inhibition of the development of NGOs and the loss of civic activity. Is that what this is about? This bill, let us be clear, is another attack on democracy in Poland, unfortunately. I'm asking you to answer the question of why the government is doing this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u273	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! My previous question concerned the National Civil Society Support Programme. I was asking about the show. The answer I received from the Minister is that expert working groups have been working for five thematic areas for a year and a working document of the strategy is currently being prepared, which will be as a result of the cooperation of the Civil Society Department in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the members and experts of these working groups. This document will be presented for a broad public consultation at regional conferences scheduled for the end of this year. My question concerns these consultations. Why aren't you waiting for this consultation? Why aren't you waiting for the conclusions that will come after this consultation? Why don't you, together, maybe, improve what's to be improved, just turn upside down the whole, well-functioning system so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u275	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has honored us with his presence, because I do not hide that I am hoping that the Prime Minister will contribute, perhaps after reflection and after listening to our questions and comments, to stop this project. The rapporteur spoke today about policies that there are politicians who say they are doing something and those who are doing it. In the case of this law, and not only, because in the case of many laws of the state, I really assure you that NGOs would be more pleased to speak, only to say that you are doing something, and if you stop at this stage, they will be grateful to you. It is not an art to choose - Mrs Wielichowska spoke today about the different sensitivity of NGOs, it is natural that NGOs have different views - only those that are close to the Law and Justice, and use them to prove that such a law is needed, and it is even easier to do so if these organisations have been created relatively recently. However, I call for these consultations to be conducted on the basis of more NGOs, because they would tell you that they do not want this law at all, that they are afraid that their independence will be severely limited. There's no full information on the competitions. Could it be that the rules of competitions will be written under specific NGOs, that money will be allocated to very specific NGOs? Although you will now deny it, we realise after these 2 years of government that such situations may occur, that organisations that are not close to the ideological state will not receive money for their very important actions. I therefore call once again for consultations to be held [[♪ The bell ♪]] more widely and respond to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u277	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It is clear that the project currently created in Poland is Mon. The National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development is a world-wide phenomenon. An organisation which is assumed to be non-governmental is to be controlled by a government institution. The idea is so absurd that it should not be presented to the High House at all. But since we are dealing with this project, the question immediately arises, ladies and gentlemen: Could the model of cooperation for non-governmental organizations be the way the Polish National Foundation, which is subject to Prime Minister Beata Szydło and having access to the funds provided by the Treasury companies, promote this image of courts, throwing 19 million into the mud and exposing itself to ridicule of public opinion? Will other NGOs, foundations and associations have similar access to the financial resources of the Treasury companies? Very interesting and interesting is the issue of the functioning of CHRO. It is a way of overseeing and controlling this institution, or actually lack of social control over this institution. Is it not so that all the bodies mentioned in the Act, starting with the President of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Committee for Public Use, through the Director and the Council of the Centre, are institutions from the same award each time? And they're supposed to control each other. The government is calling, managing, controlling. Should this be the case for institutions supporting the development of civil society? At which point in the CHRO action there is room for citizens [[♪ The bell ♪]] Action and control? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u279	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u280	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You want to create more national institutions, as if you obviously lacked jobs to give your unprepared friends, friends, friends, family. You are known to introduce pathology, nepotism in our country, employing more and more close people. You're talking about building civil society at a time when you're cutting funds for victims of domestic violence, etc. It's already in full contradiction. You have an envoy in your benches that you don't throw out of your club, the defendant, who's currently on trial for molesting his wife, beating his wife. How can you morally have the right to talk about NGOs, organizations that defend these rights on behalf of society? My dear fellows, for you the largest NGO in this country is Lux Veritatis, the company of Rydzyk's father, to which you transfer tens of millions of zlotys. This is your biggest NGO you're transferring money to. So how do you want to talk about building a civil state? Hold back because it doesn't make sense. The only goal you have is to hire more Pisiewiczs, extortion of money from taxpayers and the preservation of this money, as the example of the foundation and what you call the promotion of Poland abroad has shown recently, and what is really the promotion of the Polish government. Right now here, inside, you're doing your club policy, your party for the taxpayer's money. You have no right to talk about building civil society because you're ruining it. That's all that's been built for the past 28 years, you've been ruining for two years now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Teresa Wargock, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! There is no way to fail to refer to the assessment expressed in this House that the current system is working well because, on the basis of certain indicators, evaluations and opinions, we cannot make such a proposal in a responsible manner. I would like to ask the Minister because these are data from the research that NGOs have done. In 2010 10% 84% of the wealthiest associations and foundations the entire budget of the non-governmental sector. Is this great? Is that what civil society is all about? Young and small organisations have great difficulty maintaining public funding. Their funding is difficult to obtain, the funding is incidental, without this funding they do not have the ability to act, they are failing. There is a big problem with the survival of NGOs in rural areas. According to the opinions expressed by the organisations, there have been difficulties in previous years also with raising funds for organisations dealing with family issues or active in the field of historical education Or patriotic. It came out of the mouth of the representatives of the organization. Is it really that great? Or really 100,000. NGOs in Poland have equal opportunities? Don't they really need to be supported so that they can develop their activities? [[Applause]] Your Marshal, yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on behalf of the parliamentary club, I have been authorised to make amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The well-functioning NGOs in Poland call on the PiS to stop working on the establishment of the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development, thinking that this is a threat to the independence of these NGOs. There are concerns that the decision to grant money to NGOs will be purely political. After all, according to this country's draft law, the director of the national centre together with the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński will de facto take care of this agency twice and implement the authorial vision of civil society development, as you wrote, and will make decisions about spending tens of millions of PLN from our common budget. I wanted to ask: What is the purpose of this institution? And where is the guarantee for the independence of NGOs? I also wanted to ask you what is a very important question: What key will be the distribution of funds collected by the national social development centre? Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, you are ruining civil society by making these changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u285	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u286	Prime Minister! Minister! What's the point of reform if no one wants it? Why do you want to force yourself to be happy and really enslave non-governmental organizations, which - all, exactly all - are against this law? Specifically: Why will the Director of the National Institute of Freedom be able to decide for himself, on a one-man basis, on each disposal of assets of up to 200,000. Evil? Why will this director be able to give away without control, without competitions, without any transparency and transparency in spending this money, as we guess, to his politically friendly institutions? What's it supposed to be like in practice? How many times a month will that principal be able to give away that kind of money in a year? There's no detail in the bill anywhere, how it's gonna look in practice, so I'm asking for a detailed answer. And I ask in general: Is this supposed to be the transparency and transparency of the expenditure of a serious state, national institution? Is this supposed to be the development and support of NGOs according to the PiS? For more than a year, the third sector environment has been calling on Members not to adopt this law. So I repeat this appeal and turn to the right side of the room, towards the Members of the PiS, so as not to adopt this extremely harmful law for civil society. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u287	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u288	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members and Members, I know it's been said before, but I think it needs to sound stronger. Opinions of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Association of Polish Cities, and especially the Council of Public Use Activities and the general forum of NGOs are for you a crushing project. Organizations themselves - certainly not all of them, but many, many of them - do not want this law. Isn't that a reason to have a public hearing? It's something other than consulting. There are specific rules here. That public hearing wasn't there. Yesterday, Minister Błaszczak standing here said you were listening to people. Listen to the voice of non-governmental organizations who do not have the word 'national', 'Christian'. Poles are different, organizations in Poland are different. This diversity is a value. Poland is not just made up of you and your court. Here I am talking about such organizations of yours, which are generously rewarded by you, such as the Elbanovsky Foundation or so-called. the ecological association of Santa, which supports Minister Szyszko. There are those that are very supported by you and generously, so talking about inequality here right now is some sort of misunderstanding. Civil society in Poland is really doing very well and is doing great without the National Institute of Freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u290	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The concern of the Prime Minister and the Government of the PiS for NGOs is quite frightening. It is so huge that you need to monitor these NGOs, e.g. sending police officers behind Polish citizens to see where they meet, when they meet and why. If this is to be the case for the development of civil society, I think that, on behalf of the Members of the opposition, but also of NGOs, we can say calmly: we thank you very much for this concern, Prime Minister. There's nothing to laugh about. Sending police officers after representatives of civil society is not funny, ladies and gentlemen, it is frightening and sooner or later it will also turn against you, and everyone who did this will simply be accounted for. Does the purpose of this institution, which, as all of us point out, or actually points out most of the opinions of NGOs, not solve the problems of civil society... These solutions are also not enshrined in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, Prime Minister. This formula of the center management structure is completely opaque. The very idea of discretion in granting funding or funding to organisations gives huge scope for abuse. These are very opaque and vague methods and ways of financing NGOs. And I will not be surprised, and most of us will not be surprised if soon on behalf of the institution that you are creating, as on behalf of the Polish National Foundation, billboards will be created, which will promote your program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u291	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You are trying to make changes in this law and show what civil society is to look like. Why aren't you responding to the third sector voices? Why do you not answer very important questions, such as: Who will decide to grant a grant? Will the Director of the Institute of Freedom decide for one person to spend tens of millions of dollars from the state budget? What de facto problem does this law solve in the third sector? Because NGOs say none. You create bureaucracy, divisions, and now you want to put a muzzle on the third sector. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u293	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! NGOs, NGOs, this is something that happened to us next to local governments, something good. It was these organizations that entered areas where the government could not cope, the government sometimes had problems, and they identified problems and solved them. These organisations were often referred to because of their own problems which had to be solved and the State did not cope. And now we want to build... We, Prime Minister, should remember the base and the superstructure. And what you're building right now - I think - is such a Marxist overbuilding. It's the superstructure that's gonna tell us what society wants. I do not know the criteria for allocating money, funding NGOs, because so far it has been the effectiveness of solving any problems. Do you want to build this overbuilding that will talk to democratic society - because we are not going to undo this process now - how to live, what are the disciplines, what values must it confess in order to receive money? Aren't we going to spoil this democracy that we've worked out together so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u295	Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u296	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister, it was cold, very cold when you came to the FIP, to the Polish Non-governmental Initiatives Forum, which you went to Warsaw. over half a thousand NGOs from all over Poland. You've heard the criticism of a project that you're doing with your own person. You heard the outrage, you heard the third sector's expectations. You've heard the words, we're asking for dialogue. You have heard the words and we ask you to talk and work together to find solutions that are good for us. But you remained deaf, as you can see, to the votes of the third sector. You said that the bill was implementing some ideas that were born in the third sector, and you showed your article in 2014, only that we are in 2017, and you, Prime Minister, are not the third sector. The third sector is participants from the national forum of citizens' initiatives. The third sector is 100,000. NGOs, not your article a few years ago. You are centralising civil society, and the new central office is aimed at one thing: taking control of the government's money that has been distributed by the ministries in open competitions in an opaque and non-transparent way. Why aren't you listening to the outrage of the civil society community? After all, the outrage is not due, Prime Minister, to the work being done, but to the absence of a programme to support the development of civil society. These 2 minutes we have received today - which is very rare in this Chamber - to ask questions, will not replace either the civil society development programme or the public hearing and will not eventually replace the reply to the letter sent to Members and Members by NGOs in July this year. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] For many months, the third sector has been committed to dialogue and dialogue. They're waiting for it. There's still time to take that step backwards.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u297	Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u298	And that's what organizations expect. We as Platform Club maintain the motion to reject this horrible, evil...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u299	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u300	...and an unwanted bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u301	Thank you very much, Member. And here you are, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform. [[Less scaring, more mercenary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mrs. Member! That's right, more merythics, less scaring. Both Prime Minister Orbán and President Putin, with the help of their officials, told them that NGOs - although not chosen by anybody - formulated opinions and took political action. And that was not very appealing to these politicians, which is why they have put in place state machines made up of tax offices and various other institutions, the prosecution's office, to prove that NGOs are not working properly both in Hungary and Russia. Also Prime Minister Szydło in one of the interviews, and it was on national television, said that this situation must be settled, because big money flows to the foundation, and I quote: subordinate to the politicians of the previous governing arrangement. She also started tidying it up because - let's watch the last billboard scandal - large money was transferred to the Polish National Foundation under politicians, chosen by politicians. But the worst part is, there's our public money in there. So my question is this: According to what key will these grains be separated from the chaff according to the state according to which key these NGOs will be divided? If they have a national name, will it be correct already, will it not be enough? According to what key? What is the fate of NGOs? Will it be the same as... After all, Prime Minister, Milosz had nothing to do with the policies of the previous ruling camp and was thrown out of the reading canon. And will NGOs be evaluated according to the same key? We don't know why. Because they just don't like them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is the question and I ask for a written reply: What key will be shared between NGOs?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u303	Thank you very much, Member. The last question today is asked by Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A giant institution is to be established. Its head will decide on access to all government measures supporting civil society organisations. The director of the Institute, of course indicated without a competition for 5 years, will be able to grant up to 200,000. zł, also without any competition. You think that's moral? The government wants to have control of civil society, which is a clear threat to the independence of NGOs. Already now the government has refused support or withheld money for unfavorable or indifferent organizations, such as the Polish Foundation im. Robert Szuman or the Judy's Association of Iustitia. He split the organization into a better and worse sort. This bill's gonna deepen it. During the consultation, organizations made a lot of good remarks, which the government simply ignores, and so much promised that it would listen to Poles. You can see the effects of listening to Poles. I ask you to answer the question of where is democracy, where the independence of the organisation, I will emphasise once again: NGOs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u305	Thank you very much, Member. That was the last question. I ask you to answer questions and to refer them to the Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the representative of the Government for Civil Society, the representative of the Government for equal treatment of Minister Adam Lipiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u306	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that we are talking about two different laws, at least from the votes of some Members we can get this impression. To tell you the truth, if what you're saying were true, I wouldn't have signed the bill completely. [[And that's what we're asking, Minister, that's what this is all about.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: We know about this.]] Okay, well, we know about it, too. There's part of the misunderstanding, part of the bad will, and part of what I would call fear of change. Some NGOs are afraid of any change because they are afraid to violate the status quo, and that makes such accusations. Let me give you one simple example: the center is a government institution, just like the Public Use Department. What's the difference when it comes to government surveillance over what the department is doing and what the center is doing? If we had bad will, and you're so accusing us of bad will, we'd use this department to, for example. reward those who favor us, promote those who support us, and we do not. Let me give you another example. A year ago, there was an attack on several NGOs close to the Civic Platform. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But that is not true.]] [[Organisations are independent and apolitical.]] But please, okay. There was an attack on several NGOs, they are independent, of course, of course. Who defended them? This government was defending them. We even had a press conference with the Prime Minister, in which we separated ourselves from such attacks and from dividing the organization into ours and not ours. There were a lot of misunderstandings here, for example. The one thing that keeps popping up is the 200,000 that the Centre Director owns. Well, this money is not meant to go to the grant, it is to have the assets of the institute. This has nothing to do with grants, there is absolutely no threat here that something will happen outside the Public Use and Volunteering Act. A misunderstanding, it keeps popping up. The Director must have some authority to own the Institute's assets, so he will absolutely not grant any subsidies from this money. Did I clear this up? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I explained the matter? [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: No.]] I didn't explain, aha, good. In fact, I would like to conclude - I will return to the questions - this whole discussion with one piece of information. I'll find her in a minute. I do not know if you know what amount the institute will have in terms of money allocated to NGOs. Ma'am, do you know the amount? [[Are you asking me questions?]] Yes, I'm asking you the amount of money the institute is supposed to have. I'm listening. [[You wanna move the FIO, at least I read the bill, so there's gonna be about 60 million?]] But what percentage of what organizations get at all? Because all we do is talk about this amount all the time. All these allegations that are made here relate to this amount. [[We're talking 4% of the Totalizator Sports.]] [[Mr Joan Scheuring-Wielgus: But I was talking about Mr Kaczmarczyk, I would like to know if he would be...]] Okay, but this is another topic, the bill says what is the mode of appointment of the director. So let me tell you, 1%. 99% it is absolutely out of the reach of this centre, because the centre is not involved in cooperation between NGOs and local authorities with NGOs. So that's 1%. Is it supposed to devastate non-governmental organisations and create the kind of image you're presenting? This is completely absurd. [[Then why do you need to write down that the director will split without competitions up to 200,000? Grants?]] Member, this is happening again. Okay, I'll get back to that. You left, I explained it. [[I didn't leave.]] Well, that's 200,000. Without the approval of the board of the institute, they will only be at the disposal of the Institute's assets, and they will not be dedicated to projects. This is absolutely impossible. Only money will be earmarked for projects in accordance with the Public Use Act. Did I explain that to you? [[No.]] I didn't explain, that's right. This is a conversation with the opposition. [[At the expense of the NGO money, you'll be maintaining the national center.]] You give strong arguments, it doesn't explain anything. 1% devastates civil society in Poland. All right. More stuff. The Institute of Gambling will support smaller local civil society organisations. Indeed, there will be an institutional development fund and this money, this 40 million will be earmarked for this. The control and supervision of the executive agency belong to the government, in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Well, we've got laws like we've made for ourselves. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Acknowledged.]] I was just... And we were right to accept it. In terms of efficient management and management of funds, we have introduced four substantive criteria in this law for the submission of applications. These criteria were included in the Rules of Procedure of the Civil Initiative Fund 26. Hence, discretion was difficult to control. Now there will be four criteria, which will greatly simplify the submission of applications and enable smaller organisations to submit such proposals. The Institute is to implement the programmes on its own. We want to launch a body of solidarity, i.e. volunteering, which is underestimated in Poland. We want to strengthen this segment of social activity very much. The Act does not specify the evaluation of projects. I already told you that. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 four criteria for substantive evaluation are mentioned. The procedure is complicated - it's not true. The competitions are carried out in accordance with the Public Benefit Act. The government's very strong influence on organizations is not true. Nothing changes here, I don't know why there's such an idea that there's a very big impact on organizations. I don't know... That's 1%. It's some horrible explosive that's gonna destroy everything. [[Member Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: But that is not important.]] Yeah, that's right. I do now. The critical assessment of the Association of Polish Cities - yes, is, but the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government supported this project, said positively about it. I could read so long, so long to introduce. Why does the National Council of the Institute include few representatives of non-governmental organisations, why are they in minorities? They're not exactly outnumbered. Let me remind you that one representative has a president, three have a government representative, one has a minister for public finances, one has a local government and there are five representatives of NGOs. So you could say that seven representatives are from outside the government. So that's not true either. As far as consultations are concerned, we could talk about this for a long time. I've got a whole thick briefcase containing the results of this consultation. We've included a lot of them. [[Public hearing is different.]] Public hearing is something else, but indeed the consultation was particularly intense, lasting much longer than the Council of Ministers' regulations provide. We've met a lot of people. It is not true that you represent all NGOs. Don't make shortcuts like that. I might as well say that I represent all NGOs. There's 100,000 of these organizations. [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Minister, I just want to give you something, may I approach you?]] But... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus approaches the speaker and gives a card to the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: You will see, you are not afraid.]] Good. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Yes, it is now, and it will be.]] Yes. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Tell me: What is simpler? I think it's the way it is now, not the way it's gonna be, as you suggest. I want you to analyze this, really.]] Okay, I'll analyze it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u307	You are welcome to allow the Minister to answer. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Already? [[The Minister is glad he's marginalized.]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: We want to talk about it.]] You believe that this institute will lead to the liquidation of my position in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. [[No. I'm saying that you're happy that you're marginalized because you don't feel civil society at all.]] Madam, I've had some experience with civil society. [[I wish you hadn't changed.]] No, I haven't changed, but unfortunately, my other colleagues have changed. I'm sorry. Okay, but maybe I'm sorry... You're welcome... Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Well, thank you, because here... [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Will I get the answer to the question, will Mr Kaczmarczyk become Director?]] But this bill regulates, you know, I can't anticipate such things, God forbid. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 40 hours 16 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 September. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first parliamentary statement, Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On September 1, 1939, our homeland was attacked in a treacherous manner by the Third Reich troops. The Germans entered Poland, bringing 6 long years of occupation, murder, terror, holocaust, plundering of national assets, destroying cities. Chojnice as a border town, which was only in 1920 within the borders of the Second Republic of Poland, in a special way were already experienced in the first hours of the war. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 4.30 to the Chojnic railway station instead of Berlin's scheduled passenger train - the Royale ran an armored train from which railway and train stations were attacked. Among the first victims and prisoners of World War II were employees of the Chojnice station, railroads, passengers waiting at the station. The soldiers of the 1st Battalion of Shooters, one of three such fortress battalions in the army of the II Polish Republic, began to fight in defence of Chojnice. An armored train was unleashed, fought on the outskirts of the city. The first victims among Polish soldiers were killed. On 1 September, in the evening hours, the Ulysses of Pomerania carried out a successful attack on the Germans from 76. The infantry regiment from the 20th. The Motorized Infantry Division, which was part of the 19th armored corps of the famous gene. Heinz Guderian. The Ulyans charged near the village of Krojanta near Chojnice. During the charge on the soldiers of the Wehrmacht on the spot died, among others. Commander Colonel Kazimierz Mastalerz, Commander of the 1st squadron rtm. Eugeniusz Świeciek and 20 Ulysses. The effect of the attack on General Guderian's soldiers was to recognize the enemy's forces and stop his march toward the eastern crossing on Brdo. The Germans were very surprised by the attack of the Polish cavalry, which effectively delayed their further march, giving the possibility of regrouping and taking safe positions by the soldiers of the Operations Group. On September 2, General Grzmot-Skotnicki, visiting the Ulysses, symbolically decorated the regiment with his Virtuti Militari Order. After the withdrawal of Polish soldiers, the Germans entered Chojnice, who were also welcomed by the German inhabitants of the city. The Nazi authorities with the help of the German minority were quickly installed in Chojnice. With great determination, all signs of Polishness were destroyed. As early as October, mass executions of Poles, Chojnice residents and surroundings began in the fields near Igiel, in the Chojnice Valley of Death. It was the planned extermination of Chojniczan according to lists prepared by members of German organizations who selected the most active activists of Polish organizations and associations. Among the first victims of the murder in the Valley of Death were students, scouts, officials, social activists and 200 mentally ill people who did not fit the German model of society. It is estimated that around 2,000 were murdered in the Valley of Death. Poles. For Chojniczan, the German occupation meant, above all, huge terror, hunger, fear of tomorrow in the face of murders in the Valley of Death, exports to death camps and robots to Germany. From this place I pay tribute to the people of my home town Chojnice, who died at the hands of German torturers in the Valley of Death, were forced to leave the city, experienced the terror of the invader. I pay tribute to the railroads, the border guards, the heroic orders of 18. Pomeranian Ulysses Regiment, Soldier One. Battalion of shooters who bravely fought aggression in the first hours of war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Next Sunday, 17 September 2017, the faithful parish of Szewna in Gm. Bożechów, the Sandomierz diocese, will participate in the celebrations of the 240th anniversary of their parish church, the church of St. St. Santa Claus. This temple is located in the center of the village on the so-called. the church hill and is the third in the history of the Szewień parish. Historical sources say that the Szewień parish was emeralded before 1326 and belongs to the oldest in the area. The first church was built there, about which John Długosz wrote in 1440 that he was a wooden church of St. St. Santa Claus, who's at the dinner table, is a kielce canon. A tithe of 15 fines was collected from the Szewieński fields for the benefit of the canon, hence the canon was called Szewień. In the 17th century, this wooden church was demolished and its material was used to build a school. A new brick temple was built in his place. This occurred in 1652. It was sacked and insulted in 1657 during the Swedish Flood. The destruction was so great that only walls remained from the church. The parish priest of that time. Simon Koch was murdered by the invaders. The reconstruction of the church was undertaken by his successor, who came from Szewny Fr. Jan Hilary Kashtulski. Not only did he renovate the church of Szewień, but surrounded it with a wall, erected the buildings of the rectory and equipped the temple with new equipment and liturgical garments. The Szewieński Church was then very small and dark, so it did not satisfy the needs of a growing number of believers. Therefore, in 1755, the temple was demolished and built in its place a third church in the history of the Szewień parish, which existed until today. Her founder was Fr. Sebastian Pisulewski, parish priest of Szewieński, canon of Abbot and Sandomierz officials. The church was designed by Fr. Józef Karsznicki, an efficient architect who designed e.g. Jesuit buildings in Ostrog or the church in the High Mountains. Father Karsznicki designed not only the temple, but also the entire space around it, creating a sacral band. He carried out a project of two skyscrapers connected by stairs, rectory, church service house, and designed the surroundings. The whole assumption was formed on the plan of the cross in the Baroque style. The Szewieński church has a basilica building in the late Baroque style, with a reference to the Temple of Jerusalem, Sancta Sanctorum. It is decorated with a beautiful front between two side towers. It has three naves, it is characterized by a beautiful altar, which received the shape of the Ark of the Covenant surrounded by cherubims. The church was completed in 1777. In 1956 the church was entered in the register of monuments of the Kielce Voivodeship at the time under number 347 and the whole church group was entered in this register under number 363. Very interesting is the gate that leads to the church square, the work of workers of the Ostrowiec plant, which was made at the fair in Nizhny Novgorod in 1896, and then went to this temple. High Seym! The Szewień temple can be talked about for a long time, because it is a unique place. Among other things, he was a parish priest here for many years. Infulat Marcin Popiel, a priest who overcame his time. His work continues today, Fr. Jan Butryn, a canonist who is very committed to getting the temple back to its former glory. Numerous lay people, religious parishioners, also show great concern for the temple. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary responsibilities make it impossible for me to participate in these celebrations, and that is why I would like to convey the best wishes of the parish community to the Szewień community and wish on the occasion of this important anniversary: God's happiness in the implementation of plans and intentions for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In September this year. We celebrate the 1000th anniversary of the siege of Germany, when the army led by the German Emperor Henry II invaded the Polish lands of Prince Bolesław Chrobre. In 1017 the army commanded by Henryk II consisted of combined German, Czech and German forces, which far exceeded the size of the Polish army. The reason for the expedition was the desire to recover the land previously seized by the Polish prince and his gross disobedience to the imperial majesty. The imperial forces crossed the Beaver in the vicinity of Krosno Odrzański and destroyed everything along the way, on August 9th they were under Głogów. On the other side of Oder stood with his army Bolesław Chrobry. The Emperor gave up the assault on a well-guarded castle after watching. The purpose of his expedition was Germany, a large agglomeration located on a hill above the amber road near the Czech-Polish border. The military march has begun. In the second half of August, 12,000. Emperor Henry II's knights stood under Germany, then surrounded it. Chrobry, seeing what is happening to help the besieged, sent two armed troops that broke through under the cover of the night through enemy forces. This encouraged the guards of the castle. At the beginning of September, storms began. Machines, bows, arrows, stones and burning torches went into motion. The crew of the castle defended themselves bravely and didn't let the invader in. In the second half of September, Henry II, seeing his losses and the power of the stormers, ordered a retreat towards Kłodzek. Henry II was powerless to protect the castle. Not only did his own troops fail, but also forces brought to Germany by allies. Henry II's trip broke down. In the face of the failure of the Imperial forces, the next year the war ended with a peace in Budziszyn, under which the land of Lusatia and Milska was granted to Poland, thus establishing the furthest range of our country in Western history. German defense is one of the greatest successes of Bolesław Chrobre during his many years of military struggle with the German king, and then Emperor Henry. II. The battle for Germany preceded the end of a 15-year conflict between rulers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u313	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current debate on the state of the judiciary in Poland should also include administrative courts, which are often forgotten. Where does this forgetfulness come from? In my view, because the impact of the administrative judiciary on the functioning of the State is very small, if not none. I am referring to the fact that the administrative court is not in a position to change substantively the faulty decision of an official of the state administration, it can only repeal such a decision or annul it. What are the consequences? I think it's huge. The inability of the court to change the administrative decision has caused the discharge of various kinds, let's not be afraid to use that word, the mafia. These mafias are usually composed of mid-level officials. They are in practice unchangeable, they can survive any change of power. I have met many times in my parliamentary practice with dishonest official practices that make decisions dependent, for example. with built-in conditions from receiving a bribe, often reaching very high amounts. As long as the decision is subject to the will of the official, nothing will change in our country. However, if it were justified to give the administrative courts the opportunity to change the contested decision in substance, e.g. in the event of a flagrant violation of material law, the authority of officials would be broken. Officials - of course, I do not mean all officials, but only black sheep, of which there are many, among them - would have to start serving not themselves, but the state, or citizens, so do what they were called to do. So, since we are talking so much about reforming different areas of the country, I think it is important to look at what I have said is most important for its smooth functioning. This is about state and local authorities. The pathologies that are hiding there are much bigger in my opinion than elsewhere. But something else is even worse - the inability of administrative courts to change their decision in substance contributes to the inertia of the authorities, and thus to the entire state, disrupts its smooth functioning, cases go on for years, causing citizens to bury themselves in mud. This mud has left us, unfortunately, previous governments. In recent years, the Civic Platform has worked hard to create this mud as much as possible. We need to clear Poland of this mud. Therefore, in my opinion one of the most important steps in repairing the Polish reality must be to break the power of mid-level officials - sovereigns, not simply authorities, because they are the real rulers of Poland. Finally, this phenomenon must be seen, properly diagnosed and cured. If we don't, all efforts will go in vain. Official mobs are like cancer that digests the healthy tissue of the nation. So either we remove him or he eats us. And for now, although you can't see it with the naked eye, it's still fine, and without healing the administrative court it'll still be great. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the September meeting of the Sejm of the Republic, there is a need to refer to the civil population warning system in case of imminent danger. A month ago, the inhabitants of several voivodships were affected by the effects of the storm on an indescribable scale. They will continue to fight the effects of this element for a long time. The Law and Justice Government is fulfilling its responsibilities because it is not a theoretical state and is really helping people. The houses will be rebuilt, the losses will be repaired. There is only the answer to the question of how to avoid the consequences of such or other cataclysms, how to reduce losses, and above all how to protect life, which is priceless. The preliminary analysis of this subject allows the following position to be determined and recommended. First of all, the issues of the civil population notification and warning system should be closely linked to the crisis management system, which is the subsystem of the management of the national security system. This is due to the assumptions made in the National Security Strategy of the National Security Bureau. Currently, the Regional Warning System operates as a free app for mobile phones sending messages about potential threats and natural disasters. RSO alerts are also available in Polish Television channels on digital terrestrial television. The system is powered by information at the level of voivodship crisis management centers. RSO is available in channels of Polish Television on digital terrestrial television, in terrestrial digital multiplex MUX 3, i.e. on TVP1, TVP2, TVP Regional, Info, Culture, Polonia or TVP History. According to the data provided by the Vice-President of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the first half of 2017, 6459 notifications and 1309 warnings and 8 alerts were generated throughout the country under the RSO. The messages provided by the system focused mainly on meteorological warnings, hydrological conditions and road information. I propose the following recommendations. One: linking data to RSO with information supplied at the level of voivodship crisis management centres indicates the correct direction of linking the alert system to the crisis management system. However, first of all, information obtained by district crisis management centres and subsequently information obtained by municipal crisis management centres should be included in this system. Second recommendation: strengthening district crisis management centres, especially in the context of public information. The current law assumes that informing the public about threats is one of the tasks of the county centers. However, the practice points to the very general implementation of issues related to crisis management in the district area by the above centres. Domestic shifts in districts of over 100,000 are common. residents and there is a belief that police and guard services in the counties will solve the problem. These problems are raised in a number of research, scientific and practical trials. In this respect, I propose strengthening the district centres by setting up permanent duty services, specifying in a separate regulation the number of on-call units, the equipment of the centres, the infrastructure available to inform the population. Third recommendation: Local authorities responsible for the crisis management system at the level of the municipality and district should, through appropriate regulations and controls, lead to the creation of an information platform on public warning in their area of action. Those requirements should be imposed by the legislator in the relevant law or by the minister competent in the Regulation. The NIK should check the implementation of these procedures in the course of the implementation of the crisis management system in Poland. Current practice points to the negligence of local government in this area, it is justified to claim that the system operates in the theoretical and legal aspect. Research, including [[♪ The bell ♪]] carried out in the functional aspect of crisis management in the district area, indicate a lack of interest of the majority of local authorities despite their leading role in this area in line with current statutory assumptions. The principle of responding to the lowest possible degree of administrative division of the country applies. It is good that the current chief of fire department returns to the already proven Dutch system. It's a pity that a few years ago...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u317	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u318	...they've been suspended from this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u319	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u320	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 and 10 September 2017, a few days after the official establishment of the Bartoszyce brigade on 3 September, in Bartoszyce at the fifth congress of the Gosieski family, descendants of the hetmans Alexander and Wincent Gosieski met, but also many other excellent officers or soldiers who always stood on the security guard of the land of the Republic of Poland. The formal beginning of the reunion took place in the area of 20. Bartoszycka Brigade of the Mechanized them. The hetman of Wincent Gosiewski, led by Colonel Janusz Wiatr. The fifth convention was organized by Agnieszka, Danuta, Bożena and Barbara, the daughter of Zbigniew Gosiewski from Dąbrówka and Drójdjew. Danuta Kryszałowicz from the house of Gosiewska was the chief commander of the project. The organizers of the convention and officers, soldiers and commander of the 20th brigade mechanized Mr. Colonel. The wind should be recognized as a professional preparation and conduct of the official part of the Gosiewski family reunion, during which it was not forgotten to mention the sleep. Deputy Prime Minister Przemysław Gosiewski and Prof. Władysław Gosiewski, organizer of the first convention held many years ago in Kretoviny in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship. For the history of this reunion it is worth to notice that the main senior of this reunion was still active professor of mechatronics Zdzisław Stanisław Gosiewski, currently head of the cathedral of robotics at the Białostocka University of Technology. 20. The Bartoszycka Mechanized Brigade was established in 1994 on the basis of 75. Material and Technology Center. On 15 July 1995, the Minister of National Defence instructed the 20th mechanized brigade to take the name of the "bartoszycka" and the name of the hetman of Wincent Gosiewski and to continue the tradition 2. Lithuanian-Belarusian Division 1918-1920, 20. The infantry division was composed of 79. Białostocki, followed by the Słonimski Sagittarius Sagittarius. Lion Sapieha 1918-1944, 80. Nowogrodzkie Sagittarius Regiment 1919-1944, 78. The Slutsky Rifle Regiment of the 1920s, 1944s and 20s. Light Artillery Regiment 1920.1939. 20. Bartoszycka Mechanic Brigade is stationed in the Bartoszyce garrison. Since 2010, part of the sub-headings 20. Bartoszycka's Mechanized Brigade is also stationed in the Morąg garrison. The Gosiewiski family reunion was just in the 20th. Bartoszycka Brigade im. Wincenty Gosiewski is very important for cultivating the tradition of Polish weapons, in which soldiers, officers and captains, as well as scientists, politicians and bishops of the family of Gosiewski participated. As a reminder, my ancestor is a colonel, and later captain Alexander Gosievski, who since 1610 commanded the Polish army on the Kremlin, and then bounced back to the Bolsheviks Smolensk. From the history we pass on at conventions, and not only there, it appears that the vast majority of the Gosievian family are state-owned. The keyword for us is: God, honor, Homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Catherine Czochar, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that from 8 to 10 September this year. in the Museum of Silesian Piasts in the Bank in Opole region took place 4. The National Genealogical Conference. From the very beginning, conferences in the Bank are organized by the Opolskie Genealogy Association. This year's conference was again attended by enthusiasts of genealogy from farthest corners of Poland. Once again, visitors from abroad also appeared looking for their Polish roots, among others. from France, Sweden and Austria. During the three-day meeting, participants of the conference listened to many lectures and participated in specialized workshops. The lectures and workshops were conducted by scientific staff of several universities and institutions such as state archives or the Main Archives of the Old Acts, as well as by people for whom genealogy is a hobby. One of the speakers was an employee of my parliamentary office, a resident of Nysa Mr. Jacek Szumański, who in a lecture entitled "Traces of old family photographs." In the years 1850-1939, Szumański briefly presented the story of his family on the basis of old, unique photographs preserved in home archives. It is worth mentioning in this House that one of the figures presented was a Member of the Sejm II of the Republic of Poland elected in 1938 from the 45th district of Mr Władysław Szumański, President of the Chamber of Crafts in Vilnius, while the forthcoming 100th anniversary of regaining independence leads to a reminder of the figure of cartographer Theofil Szumański, a participant in the Versailles conference, about which Eugeniusz Romer said: Mr Teofil soon became one of the most outstanding personalities of the Polish delegation in Paris. Ladies and gentlemen! The activity of genealogies allows individuals to recreate and write down the history of their families. Probably in many Polish families you can find stories of people who have witnessed important historical events, and these have had an impact on the history of our country, the Polish state. From this point I would like to thank all people and associations involved in the organisation of the nationwide family conference in the Bank - thank you and congratulate you on an initiative so important for the Polish country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u323	Thank you very much, Member. The last statement will be made by Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! By impersonating the names and publicity of previous top bands, two new bands, enthusiastically accepted in Germany, appeared on the German music market: Budka Sufler and Boni M. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-13-sejm-47-2.u325	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 14 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 31]]
