ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Arkadiusz Marchewka, Elżbieta Zielińska, Krzysztof Kubow and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Arkadiusz Marchewka and Elżbieta Zielińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Carrot and Krzysztof Kubów. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 10, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development in cooperation with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 14, - to State Control together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Anti-Economic Crimes and Lichvas - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Tourism - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Integrated Multidisciplinary System of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Cancer Diseases in Western Poland Children and Parliamentary Group Patients' rights - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u3	Thank you very much, Member. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. This report is print number 1896. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The European Union Commission submitted a draft resolution on information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017 (the presidency of Malta in the Council of the European Union). The design is 1804. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes, and that sharing the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Law and Justice Club on the government's action on changes in waste legislation - to the Minister for the Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question about waste management is very valid because we know that changes in the Waste Management Act are being prepared. We also know that municipalities, that local authorities, which issue permits for waste management, do so with a very light hand, and then the effects of this and the nuisances associated with it are perceived by the inhabitants. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: Are legal solutions being prepared on these issues to prevent the creation of new waste management sites, so that there is some kind of central monitoring, as well as the reduction and elimination of landfills which, as agreed, with environmental decisions, are within a certain period of time, because certain standards must comply with landfills? Will the Ministry also carry out such supervisory work on these issues over the local government? I also wanted to point out that all waste is dangerous. Some less, some more. We need to take action with great care here, because it is to a large extent the landfills that affect both the environment and the health and life of the inhabitants of the municipality. Minister! I also wanted to ask you about legal sanctions, because we know that this field is quite [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wandering. I'd like that very much. Are solutions prepared to make those who...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u5	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u6	...they're fulfilling it, just reducing bad practices?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u7	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Monitoring of waste management activities is carried out by the Environmental Protection Inspection, which supervises the activities of entities operating in the sector in the framework of planning and intervention controls. All cases of illegal waste management reported by both economic operators, natural persons and other state administrations are under the constant supervision of voivodship environmental inspectors. At the same time, it is worth noting that control powers for the execution of waste management permits also have the authorities that issued them, i.e. - as mentioned here by the Member - local governments, especially the starosts, the marshals of voivodships, but also the authorities of the state, i.e. regional environmental directors. Local authorities have legal instruments from the Waste Act to prevent cases of illegal storage, storage of waste and in the event of ongoing disposal. However, due to the calls made, the Ministry of the Environment is working to propose changes in the near future which will improve this situation and present the appropriate financial mechanism. The environmental resort shall carry out activities to seal the waste management system and to eliminate the pathologies associated with illegal waste management. In the coming years, these actions will include changes in waste management legislation, waste law, including in particular municipal waste, cleanliness and order law in municipalities, which has just been submitted for government work. These proposals will be complemented by changes to the rules on extended producer responsibility for packaging, batteries, batteries and waste electrical, electronic equipment, which will also result from the negotiated circular economy package. A number of these actions and this increased responsibility for the introductions will be defined. Of course, we are already working in the Committee on Legal Affairs before the Council of Ministers. There's a bill to amend the Waste Act. These actions will be aimed at improving enforcement efficiency both by the control authorities and by the authorities issuing administrative decisions on waste management. These penalties, which you asked for, administratively, are up to PLN 1 million. The proposed amendments to the Waste Act provide for the keeping of waste records only via an electronic database on products and packaging and on waste management. It's going to be this base, so-called. BDO in brief. The project is also planned to give up the aggregate waste transfer card. These changes will enable ongoing on-line control and not, as so far, periodic control. Hence, when inspectors arrive after 7 days, the printers are still warm. So we want to avoid this so that this audit and these reporting activities are carried out on an ongoing basis. It is also a matter of verifying the data relating to the transport of waste by listing the data contained in the waste transfer sheet set up in the database. This instrument will be used both during the control of specific transport and remotely by the competent authorities. It will also be possible to identify some risks, where they are the greatest, to address, even though limited, environmental inspection measures. In the case of waste management, changes are envisaged in order to seal the collection and marketing system by introducing into the system a confirmation of each acquisition of these waste by the authorised entity and the settlement of the mass of waste received especially from the areas of the municipalities in the daily system by the so-called. transfer cards for municipal waste. Such a form of drawing up of documents used for waste records, which will be integrated into the BDO, will also allow the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspections to have access to the documentation kept by the recipients of municipal waste. We are considering proposing further legislative amendments aimed at sealing the existing rules and facilitating supervision and control of waste activities. We are also considering introducing - I have already said this from this point on - a financial guarantee mechanism for entrepreneurs operating in the field of waste management in order to prevent waste dumping. Today the local government actually makes decisions and it goes to the barn, right, to the so-called. pole. So these illegal practices that take place in other areas of the economy are now also focused on waste management. This is also an attempt to avoid appropriate charges. In some cases, such entities have been requested to permit waste management, but their property situation was not good enough to be able to do anything later on with the waste. We also want and we are struggling with the problem... This is often reported by inspectors, i.e. those who are constantly involved in waste management. These are the famous 7-day controls. This is a big challenge, which is very strongly communicated by environmental inspectors. We're gonna talk about it and encourage it to... It is not about restricting entrepreneurs, restricting entrepreneurship, but about ensuring that honest entrepreneurs can work so that this competitive advantage and optimizing economic activity at the expense of citizens does not take place at the expense of the state. This change is necessary in our view, because the necessity of this notification also makes these controls de facto ineffective. When cases are reported on an ongoing basis, implementations are carried out by environmental inspectors. These checks shall be carried out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll be heading in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club, asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you another question about this heads-up for a seven-day period. Many complaints, many interventions in the parliamentary offices are about this problem. They concern not only landfills of waste but also other facilities, although they are mainly where waste is processed. The second thing I wanted to ask you is whether there are any measures being taken, rather conceptual ones, I understand, with regard to the reduction of waste, such actions that would improve the quality of these waste so that there is as little hazardous waste as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the government intend to do something in this regard? I understand that this will be a more conceptual answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Mazurek again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned, these 7 days are a challenge that faces an inspection that is obliged to announce its control. Here is a catalogue of exceptions, only very often it happens that economic operators have a specialised staff of lawyers who are able to prove that inspectors are violating the company's good name. Therefore, there are often situations in which inspectors are aware that their activities, their actions, may be called into question as such, which is at risk of subsequent sanctions and judicial proceedings. Inspectors must be armed with powers. Reforms are important and they are being carried out here... The inspection is on the eve of such changes, but this is precisely what it is necessary to talk about and work out the best possible mechanism in this area. The reduction in the amount of hazardous waste is related to what is also recorded in the National Waste Management Plan. On this occasion, I will say that in fact, these last two years have focused largely on the implementation of ex ante conditionalities in order to unlock resources for waste management, but under this ex ante conditionality there have been a number of provisions on issues such as raising charges in landfills for waste that should never be found there, and such situations have been, like municipal waste unprocessed, such as hazardous waste, as used equipment. These amounts will be raised to a very high degree in order to counteract these pathologies. At the same time, there was also a situation where operators who did not have the right decisions could act. To my question, how did it happen that these entities, such as Warsaw Radiowo, operate without an integrated permit, it turned out that this was the decision of the management. I didn't remember mine, it turned out there was such a permission. Such authorisation may not be granted without appropriate authorisation. Although, of course, here we are dealing with all of this and we have a deep hope for it. Here, too, some changes must be made, because very often, when the inspectors did their job, when the prosecution did their job, the courts suspended their decisions, suspended their execution due to the fact that there might be high costs for the company. And when we close the smelly Warsaw Radiovo, this inspection is carried out, the court stops our decision, regardless of the impact on the environment and on the inhabitants. And that's another challenge we're going to face. We've got a lot of conceptual work to do, but we've already got records ready. But it is best to talk about these detailed solutions when they are already worked through the entire government. And we will work together with the entire government to make them as effective and effective as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u13	Thank you very much. We must now change the order of questions. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Pasławska from the club of the Polish People's Party about the resumption of local border traffic with the Russian Federation - to the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, actually, concerning the resumption of the local border traffic, which was launched in 2012 and then woke up very much hope, expectations, was a great impulse of development especially for border communities covered by structural unemployment, for such districts as Bravski, Bartoszycki, such with a really high level of unemployment. At the time of launching, actually six months after the launch, there was a decrease in unemployment in these areas. This small border traffic was important for two voivodships. I think that mostly for Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship and Pomorskie voivodship. Today, Mr Marian Podziewski is listening to this discussion, a former Warmia-Mazury voivode who participated in the creation of this small border traffic. It comes from Gołdapi, today represents the Gołdap environment, which is very much looking forward to the resumption of local border traffic. There seems to be a very good time to resume and start civilising trade relations with Russia. Since, to say the half-joke, Robert Lewandowski and his team decided so, since Minister Waszczykowski, Mr Duda was at the stadium and supported this direction, perhaps it is worth that this support should also be directed at ordinary citizens so that ordinary citizens can benefit from trade relations with Russia. Because both locals and all research centres, and even right-wing publicistry in the region of Warmia and Mazury, say unambiguously: the region loses [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the suspension of local border traffic and the small border traffic should be re-established as soon as possible and without restrictions. Questions. What are the reasons for the current suspension of local border traffic?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u16	What are the preparations for border handling? How does the government intend to compensate for losses to businesses and farmers as a result of the suspension of border traffic?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Skiba, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, answers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The decision of the Government of the Republic of Poland to continue the suspension of the local border traffic agreement with the Russian Federation was and is dictated by national security considerations... [[Like what?]] ...and the need to reduce risks and to counter all kinds of threats that could prevent the development and freedom to pursue the interests of the Polish state. [[Specifically.]] The intention of the movement with the Russian Federation was to facilitate the establishment and strengthening of social and economic relations between border residents. However, the use of this instrument must be based on fundamental trust, goodwill and principles of cooperation. Our services continuously monitor threats to the security of Poland. One of the negative developments that have intensified over the past few years, especially recently, in connection with the exercises of the Russian armed forces Zapad, is the increasing militarisation of the Kaliningrad region. It is accompanied by the process of settling in this area of military personnel and by increased activity of special forces and other Russian forces departments. In addition, attention should be paid to other potentially hazardous hybrid activities, including: in intelligence activities, provocations, cyber attacks and economic pressure. Key projects in the field of external security in Poland include: the aim of strengthening the so-called the eastern flanks of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or Poland's efforts within the European Union to maintain a firm policy course towards Russia in connection with its actions in Ukraine. I would like to point out that in Elbląg, very close to the Polish border with the Kaliningrad circuit, from July this year. The Northern-East Multinational Division is stationed coordinating NATO forces on the eastern flank. That's the answer to security. On the other hand, it is important to stress the other things that refute the thesis that you have raised. Firstly, it is not true that the border traffic with Russia has decreased. Statistics, Border Guard data absolutely don't support that. Namely, in July and August 2016, the border exceeded around 250,000 respectively. Russian citizens, in July and August 2017, amounted to 370 000. The total passenger traffic has been rebuilt on the basis of visas, and the issue of visas gives a much better opportunity to check who is in our country. The arguments concerning the economic dimension are also not true. Namely hard data of the Central Statistical Office and National Tax Administration clearly show that the total value of spending of foreigners, i.e. Russians coming to Poland from the Kaliningrad region, amounted to PLN 270 million in the first half of 2017 and increased by 14.2% compared to the same period of 2016, when it amounted to PLN 237 million. Similar figures are indicated by the National Tax Administration. On the basis of the tax free accounts in May and June 2017, around 8 and 9 thousand were registered. the accounts for an amount correspondingly higher by about PLN 10 Economic activity in these voivodships did not suffer at all, but gained. Who's lost on this? The persons who carried the excise goods across the border lost on this. That is the truth and there are hard data that clearly show it. This is also demonstrated by data on the number of offences related to the smuggling of fuel, cigarettes, alcohol, which occurred in fewer criminal, fiscal and parking proceedings. In May 2016, before the suspension, approximately 2200 of these crimes were registered a month, now we have a level of 1600.1800. Another example of what the economic sense of this border traffic was all about. I would like to point out that the suspension of local border traffic has certainly had a positive impact on the increased collection of VAT, which is registered by our fiscal service. Finally, the world championship issue. It's not true, a little border traffic isn't meant for fans to cross the border. There will be only four group matches in Kaliningrad. It is not known whether Poland will perform. It's like he has nothing to do with it. The Russian Federation will certainly adopt extra-ordinary solutions that will facilitate the movement of fans into the territory of the Russian Federation, these matters are planned. A small border traffic doesn't do that. The sense and purpose of the local border traffic are completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u19	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u20	Minister, you referred to national data, and I talked about data concerning stricte Warmia-Mazury voivodship and Pomorskie voivodship. These data are definitely different from what you said. According to the research center of the eastern Russians leave at Warmia and Mazury and in Pomerania 420 zł, to 420 zł, Pole - 320. This was the case during the duration of the local border traffic. I will therefore allow myself to disagree with your statement. And I would like to ask you about concrete examples of the impact on safety or the negative impact on security, specific examples that are detrimental to Poland, during the duration of local border traffic. None of this has happened, there have been no such cases. There's a former voivode here with us who can [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll confirm that. The small border traffic was fantastic. It was also an excellent way of understanding for people living at the border. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u21	Thank you very much. We're going back to... And, excuse me, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is still answering, Minister Jakub Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u22	Shortly as far as data quality is concerned, these data, as I said, come from three sources. These are data from the Central Statistical Office, data from the National Tax Administration, data from the Border Guard, data that are official, transparent, data that consist of aggregation of all information flowing from individual regions. These are undisputable, Madame Member. I'm ready to make them available. As for the concrete examples, I must say that we are in force here under the law on the protection of classified information, and I must therefore say that I must confine myself to the statements I made earlier. A hybrid threat is a fact. Recently in Finland, an anti-hybrid centre has been established. This shows how serious this is, which is absolutely about the fundamentals of national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u23	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska from the Civic Platform on the situation related to the attempt to shorten the term of office of the director of the Polish Film Institute - to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u24	Thank you very much. The question is for Mr Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage - on the situation related to the attempt to shorten the term of office of the director of the Polish Film Institute. Actually, it's hard to talk about rehearsal right now, 'cause I think it's already happened. Dear Minister, dismissing or destroying the management of cultural institutions very well-functioning cultural institutions are slowly becoming a trademark of this ministry under this very direction. But in the case of the Polish Film Institute, the situation is scandalous in two ways. Firstly, of course it was a very well-functioning institution, Polish cinematography is developing well, it has returned to years of greatness, also thanks to the activities of the institute. But the unique position of this institution is enshrined in the Act on Cinema, and it is an institution which was created by the will of the environment and is a very socialized institution. In addition, the director of this institution is legally guaranteed a five-year term, and the law indicates five conditions when the director can be called off. None of these conditions are relevant, at least in our opinion. So I would very much like the Minister to say which of the five statutory conditions is the basis for this scandalous decision. Why did this appeal attempt take place next door or in violation of records saying that there must be an opinion of the institute's council? As we know, she's positive for the director. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And actually what the ministry really wanted to achieve with this scandalous decision, and as it imagines...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u26	...to continue working with the film community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u27	The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we do have a very well-functioning institution of culture - the Polish Film Institute - which has been operating for 12 years, thanks to which Polish cinematography has been reborn. I would like to remind you that in 2005, when we passed a film law in the Sejm, which called this institution - the Polish Film Institute - the Civic Platform was against this law, voted against it, it was against the creation of the Polish Film Institute, Law and Justice was in favour. Thanks to the fact that this law passed through, thanks to the voices of Law and Justice, and thanks to the fact that the Polish Film Institute was created, Polish cinematography was really reborn. In 2005 around 12 films were produced in Poland each year, and today around 50 films are produced, so for example. for the competition, for the Gdynia Film Festival there is something to choose from when it comes to presenting 15 competition films. In 2005, there were about 1 million viewers in Polish cinemas, and today there are 12 and 15 million of them per year. Thus, thanks to the decision of the Law and Justice of 2005, and contrary to the intentions of the Civic Platform from the same year, Polish cinematography was reborn. On the other hand, answering specific questions about the event that has now taken place - the Minister of Culture and National Heritage dismissed Ms Magdalena Sroka from the role of director of the Polish Film Institute on the basis of art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 6 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of June 2005 on cinematography after consulting the Council of the Polish Film Institute. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage requested the opinion of the Council on the intention to dismiss Ms Magdalena Sroki from the role of director of the Institute on 25 September this year. On 9 October, the Council of the Institute issued that opinion in its Resolution 161. The appeal took place after consulting the Council of the Polish Film Institute, which was a requirement. The reason for the appeal of the director of the Polish Institute of Film Art from his function is the violation of basic duties in the occupied position and the violation of the law in connection with the letter of the director of the Polish Institute of Film Art to Christopher Dodd, President of the Association of American Film Manufacturers in the USA. In the official writing of the Polish Film Institute, which has its signature, Magdalena Sroka's director endangered the image of Poland and Polish cultural institutions on the international stage. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage, performing the tasks of the government administration in the field of cinematography and supervising the activities of the Polish Film Institute, cannot agree with the acts of the director of this institution, which are in clear contradiction with the statutory tasks carried out by the Institute in the field of promotion and creation of conditions for the development of Polish film creation. I would like to inform you that the Act on Incentives, which will soon be proceded and which, I hope, will come into force from next year, will not only result in what, thanks to the Act on Films supported by the Law and Justice, and not supported by the Civic Platform, has occurred that Polish cinema has been reborn, because we will have thanks to this Act on Incentives in circulation actually the second such money which was triggered by the Act on Filmmaking, i.e., it can be said that film production in Poland will have turbocharged thanks to much more resources that will be used in Poland for this film production. It's one mechanism that's about to show up. Secondly, we have launched competitions for historical films. As far as these historical films are concerned, the first competition has already taken place, the results are already in place. And there will also be additional financial resources from other sources. So, it can be said that not only thanks to the 2005 Film Act, but also thanks to these new mechanisms that we plan, before Polish film production and before the film environment in Poland, a bright future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u29	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u30	I would like to ask the Minister about the following. The Polish Film Institute is primarily a public institution. It is not a state institution, it is not a ministry, it is a public institution, independent, with its own law, with its own regulation and special competitive conditions. And this kind of intervention by the minister, with a violation of the law, is extremely badly perceived by the environment and indicates that you want to manually control cultural institutions. I would like to remind you that Minister Piotr Gliński, Deputy Prime Minister, lost the trial with Paweł Potoroczyn, who was restored to the role of director of the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, and will probably also happen in this case. Question: "Why do such movements break the law, destroying the good achievements of cultural institutions?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] through personal combat with people who have managed these institutions very well, and have always managed apolitically?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sellin again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u32	In answer to this question, I would like to inform you that, however, the Act on Cinema clearly lists several conditions which allow the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to dismiss the director of the Polish Film Institute, and in our opinion such a condition occurred. I put forward arguments in the previous reply. However, of course, the new director of the Polish Film Institute will be selected by means of a competition, which will be announced immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u33	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Kukiz club15 about a loan to the Polish Television SA granted from the Reprivatisation Fund - to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the loan granted from the Reprivatization Fund for Polish Television in the amount of PLN 800 million. I would like to add this question to the question more broadly as regards the Reprivatisation Fund, whether any other action under this fund is envisaged or taken. The situation has changed slightly in recent days due to the announcement by Minister What announcements on the reprivatisation law to be financed under budgetary capacity. I'd like to ask you that. The first question is: Why did such a highly stable institution, such as public television, receive such a high loan? Did any other entities receive loans from the Reprivatisation Fund under this commercial option? And was there any support from this fund in the last year or was there any action in accordance with the purpose of the fund? And will it be used as part of the reprivatization bill announced by the Minister? Are there any planned actions, operations under this fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u35	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In reply to the first question, I would like to inform you that the Director of the Reprivatisation Fund is the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture here does not have the knowledge to satisfy the Member's curiosity, so it is necessary, when it comes to the operation of the Reprivatisation Fund at all, to return to the Minister of Finance. On the other hand, I answer the question about this loan - the Minister of Culture and National Heritage did not participate in the decision-making process of granting this loan to the Polish Television. Here the parties were the Treasury represented by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, and Television Poland. Our Ministry was not involved in this case, while Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, a member of the Council of Ministers in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, by letter dated 24 August this year. informed us that on 21 July this year. Indeed, such a loan agreement was concluded. As I said, the parties to the loan agreement are the State Treasury and Television Poland. The loan amount is PLN 800 million paid in four tranches. The first tranche of PLN 200 million has already been paid, the second tranche of PLN 300 million is available by 30 November this year, the third tranche of PLN 100 million - by June next year and the fourth tranche of PLN 200 million - by June 2019 Transze the second, third and fourth will be paid in full or in part at the explicit request of public television. Under the agreement, the company was required to provide the President of the Council of Ministers and the Director of the Reprivatisation Fund, the Finance Minister, with quarterly reports on the use of the loan during the period of validity of this agreement, together with the opinion of the Supervisory Board within 30 days of the end of each subsequent calendar quarter. I think that maybe you, too, because I understood the intention of this question so much as to be interested in the use of this amount. Television signals that it wants to allocate the amount of this loan to statutory activities aimed at carrying out tasks involving technological projects and programming initiatives. And so on. These are investments in the area of production technology and content management. The implementation of projects in this area is aimed at adapting the technological base to the current production needs of the company. They cover to a large extent investments in the production capacity of off-road units. Let us remind you that public television has 16 off-road units. In addition, investments in equipment and infrastructure are envisaged to allow the transfer of production within the company and to inform the production process. The results of the projects are to improve the production process and improve the technical quality of the content produced. The second purpose for which this loan is intended is to develop the programme offer. The company plans to develop a software offer that serves the implementation of the public mission. Investment is planned in programmes that bring Poland's history closer and more popular. In response to the demand of viewers, Polish Television also intends to broadcast the most important sports events. The last famous story related to the purchase of rights to broadcast all matches of Polish football team - starting with those closest to them, which are due to take place in November - especially during the World Cup in Russia. By letter dated 8 May 2017, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage sent a favourable opinion to the Minister of Finance on the impact of this loan on the company's current financial liquidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In that case, using the fact that you are a Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which was to deal with the acquisition of new sources of financing for the Polish Television through various taxes, subscriptions or other rackets, I would like to ask whether due to the fact that the financial situation of the Polish Television was weak enough to require the granting of this loan, 800 million PLN, there is no risk that this loan will not be repaid. And if the return of this loan or the guarantee of return is based on some legislative plans for new taxation, is it justified to make the business, economic activity of companies dependent on the uncertain, [[♪ The bell ♪]] vague legislative proposals that we do not yet know?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u39	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sellin again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u40	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, you have touched on a very important issue: the crisis of financing public media - because it concerns not only television, but also 18, if I count correctly, radio stations: a large radio station and 17 regional radio stations, i.e. all public media - from public funds. We have had a subscription crisis for many, many years, reinforced unfortunately by irresponsible actions and statements by former Prime Minister Donald Tusk, which caused about 900 million zlotys from the subscription at the beginning of the Civic Platform's rule to go down to 400 million, because people just heard a certain form of encouragement to not pay the subscription. Thus, no politician - a politician who should care about compliance with the law in Poland - should do so. But it did happen, and now it's very difficult to get out of this subscription crisis. In fact, most households did not pay their subscription, but a minority paid it. That's the way it is to this day. Of course, discussions and reflections are still ongoing on proposing a new target method for financing public media. I think this should go rather towards a new media fee, but this is still a matter of the future. At this point, however, we are considering the possibility of compensating the public media for the exemption from subscription, which in many recent years the Polish state has covered various important social groups. We do not want to give up these exemptions absolutely, they belong to these important social groups, but we assume that, since such exemptions have taken place, compensation from the state budget is due to these exemptions. So this is probably what we're going to propose in the near future. This will, of course, be a non-target solution, but it will be temporary, while ultimately it is necessary to work on a new way of financing public media. Today we have actually an unusual situation in Europe, such that the public media live in 80% of the commercial media, from advertising - I am talking mainly about television, because on the radio it is slightly different - and in most of the major European Union countries, public media in 80% of the They live on public funds. With us it is exactly the opposite, so this is an unhealthy situation, which causes the temptation to commercialise the program, to pursue the commercial attractiveness of the programme, and we have public media not to race in this race, only to carry out the mission to implement ambitious programme projects, and for that we need public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u41	Thank you very much. Now I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Andrzej Melak, the Law and Justice Club, on the introduction of the programme for the construction of shooting galleries - to the Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In recent years, there have been an increasing number of students who continue their high school education with a profile based on military, police, but also fire education. In addition to elements of martial arts or broadly understood self-defense in the programs of these schools, there is also a lesson in firing firearms. Unfortunately, in many cases it happens that these students rarely use shooting galleries where they can practice their skills, because the shooting range is located several dozen kilometers from their school or place of residence. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether the Ministry intends to support the construction of shooting galleries, especially in those municipalities which have classes based on uniform education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Melak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! After the removal of compulsory military service, many of the yearbooks of the reservists did not have the opportunity to learn about the construction, the ability to use and the purpose of firearms. Territorial Defense can't secure access for anyone who would want to. I would like to ask what the Ministry of National Defence intends to do on this issue, because the experience of recent years indicates that many military units have been destroyed in the Warsaw agglomeration and that the shooting galleries in their area have also been destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, answers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In answer to questions about the programme to support the construction of shooting galleries, I would like to inform you that this initiative is indeed being analysed in response to requests from local governments, NGOs. Work is underway to prepare such a program at the Ministry of National Defence. It should be launched as from 1 January 2018. I know that yesterday an amendment to the Act on the income of local government units was introduced by the Sejm, which will enable the Ministry of National Defence to transfer funds to local governments. Everything depends, of course, on the High House, whether the High House decides to support this amendment or not. If this law is amended, it will open up a formal legal path to the implementation of this programme. As I said, we are now at the stage of analysing and preparing the concept of such a programme. As long as all formal legal conditions and budgetary resources allow for this, this programme will start on 1 January 2018. In this way, it will be possible to support in particular those districts in which secondary schools run certified military uniform classes, while we also assume that these facilities could be used by military units. Since in the last several years almost half of the military shooting range has been liquidated, Polish troops, the Polish Armed Forces, currently own only fifty objects. As a result, some units must reach the military range about 200 km. Therefore, the possibility of financing and setting up such municipal shooting galleries would also involve the possibility of being used by some military units and the Territorial Defence Army, which, as we know, are built in all powiats from the east to the west of the country. As far as training of Polish Armed Forces' personal reserves is concerned, this is indeed a very important issue. After the suspension of the essential military service, which was not prepared, there was indeed a problem with the training of reserves. At the moment, work is underway in the Ministry of National Defence to change this situation. We should train about 35,000 a year. persons. The worst year was 2012, when 10 times less reservists were trained, but at the moment this situation is improving, but we are also implementing specific programmes to fundamentally change this situation. One of them is the secondary school support program, which conducts certified pawns of military uniform classes. The graduates of these schools will be in reserve after a short training course. The second programme has started since October this year, it is a programme of voluntary training of students of the University Legion. As part of this programme, we have secured nearly 10,000 during the pilot year, i.e. this year. training places. Depending on the reports, it's gonna be 5,000. Petty Officers, or 10,000. Privates. As part of this programme, students first benefit from theoretical classes and then from training courses, which take place during student holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u47	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u48	Thank you. Minister! In an additional question I wanted to ask about the role of the local government in this undertaking, but the Minister already answered this in the first part of the answer. Well, maybe I'll ask you this: is the Ministry going to communicate with gun rangers that operate commercially on the market so that they can also be used to promote shooting at uniformed schools?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Dworczyk again responds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the programme we are working on is concerned, it is designed for local governments and this is limited to the project we are working on. On the other hand, as regards schools that have entered the program for certified military pawns of uniform classes, these institutions receive funding from the Ministry of National Defence. This is possible thanks to a revised law which has already entered into force and allows the MON to transfer funds directly to the lead authorities. This year, 55 facilities entered the program. It came in close to 200, but we only accepted 55 for piloting. In each district, however, one such high school is to be held. We would like this programme to be fully operational as of 1 September 2019. These facilities receive funding for various types of activities. If they wanted to use these funds for e.g. redemption of hours and use of commercial shooting galleries, that is the decision of these facilities. We, as the Ministry of National Defence, do not foresee such cooperation with commercial operators in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u51	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question about the police entering the premises of women's NGOs the day after the black protest is addressed to the Minister of Justice. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the headquarters of non-governmental organisations providing support to women, the Women's Rights Centre and the Women's Association BABA were entered by the police with an order to issue documentation on projects co-financed by the Ministry of Justice in 2012 and 2015. Officers secured computers, drives, took binders that contained documentation, contracts, reports, but also personal data. The investigators stress that the purpose of the police's entry was to establish the correct spending of public funds on the fund to help victims of violence, although the Ministry of Justice has exactly the same documents, in two versions: electronic and paper. Why, then, do I want to ask, on behalf of a Member from the Civic Platform, that he did not hand them over to the prosecutor's office? After all, this prosecutor's office is under the authority of the Minister of Justice of Ziobra. Due to the incidents, there is doubt about the purpose of police action and the suspicion of politically motivated action, which is primarily aimed at intimidating and paralyzing the activities of women's organizations whose functioning has been systematically hindered by the current government for months. The nature of these actions is alarming to all non-governmental organisations which, when carrying out statutory measures to protect civil rights, may be exposed to increased and unannounced controls by the services under the government. So is the coincidence of events random here? It happened the day after the women's protests against the decisions of the PiS, who recently took many anti-feminine actions that were involved in sanctioning violence against women. So the questions arise: What was the purpose of police searches at the headquarters of women's organizations? Why couldn't the prosecution have asked the Women's Rights Centre and the BABA Women's Association to make these documents available earlier? This would be easier, without the marks of the returning Polish People's Republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did the police, without warning, enter with a search warrant, surprise the employees of the organization and paralyze their tasks? And one last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u54	Who and when made the decision to enter the organization...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u55	Mr Michał Woś corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u56	... and the occupation of these important non-governmental documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u57	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u58	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will start by saying that the police have entered not only those two organisations that you have mentioned here, but also the association of helping others. Kryspin's brother, to the Catholic Association of Helping Persons in Need, to the Association of Safe Districts, etc., etc. [[All of them, please.]] Do you, ladies and gentlemen, say such a thing: Marzena K., the famous official of the ministry, detained yesterday? The court issued a judgment on the basis of which she was arrested, inter alia. in connection with corruption suspicions. Well, Mrs Marzena K. has been the person who has been overseeing since 2012 the Fund for Missed Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, and it is she who has decided to spend these funds. [[What does one have to do with the other?]] Of course, these cases are being investigated and a proper notification has been made to the prosecution. On the basis of this notification, the Police Command in Poznań under the supervision of the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Poznań is conducting an investigation into the excess of powers or failure to fulfil its duties by the officers of the Ministry of Justice in the years 2012 to 2015. It is about granting, controlling and clearing funds from a fund at the disposal of the department, which was co-managed by Mrs Marzena K. The order of 24 July issued by the prosecutor's office concerned the request to issue evidence of the matter and, in the event of refusal to search at the premises of the six organisations responsible for the funds from that fund. The organisations concerned did not raise any objections to the record. Electronic media after copying shall be kept up to date by the entities from which they have been taken for security purposes so as not to paralyze any work of these institutions. Importantly, earlier, in the summer of 2017, documents were secured in the Ministry of Justice. The dates for both activities in the summer and October 4 were set by the Voivodeship Command in Poznań. The investigation concerns actions to the detriment of the public interest, i.e. Article 1 is replaced by the following: 231 § 1 of the Penal Code, and it is, of course, in the case, and not against anyone, that no one has been charged. On the other hand, why were documents secured in the Ministry in July or summer 2017 and later documents secured in these organisations? Well, first of all, this is the kind of information we got, this is the constant practice of the prosecution's composition, the constant practice of action, when you confront documents held by both units, if it is possible to verify, and secondly, it was a very broad, coordinated action. They were involved in it and the officers involved in cybersecurity, and the officers working in forensic laboratories in connection with security of electronic media, were involved in five police voivodship commands, the Police Capital Command. Conducting the indicated activities at the same time in 10 locations in several voivodships required proper preparation. It was set such a date, not another date by the Voivodeship Command in Poznań, due to the need to coordinate a large number of officers involved in these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u59	Thank you very much. A further question is asked by Krystyna Skibińska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Sibińska.]] Sibińska, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! Sibińska. And Krystyn's brother, not Kryspin's, Minister, but it doesn't matter much. I'd like to ask. In the computers of NGOs that have been retained, there is also sensitive data about those to whom these NGOs help and support. What is the guarantee that these sensitive data will not be used against those who expect it? And often they are women beaten, single mothers. These are very, very dramatic situations and here is the concern that this information will not be used for other proceedings. Second, please tell me... The Minister said that these computers, documents, are being returned gradually. We don't have that kind of knowledge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the contrary, we know that this is still being held. Why hasn't the Ministry made any statements on this matter so far, even though the public demands it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Woś corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u62	Regarding data: as regards all cases relating to the victim's aid fund, the Ministry of Justice is fully responsible for this data, and therefore there is no risk. As for returning the carriers, they were returned on October 6th... [[And the bill?]] ...Association for women BABA and Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights Branch in Warsaw, on October 9, they were returned to the Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights Branch in Gdansk, October 10th, the Association of Help to Gemini im. Brother Krystyna, as you rightly pointed out, etc., etc. All media after securing data related to the victim's aid fund according to the information provided by the prosecutor's office are subsequently returned to all these organisations. [[Personal data protection, Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u63	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Mr Andrzej Noblet, the Law and Justice Club. Question on the modernisation of railway line No 71 Rzeszów - Ocice and prospects of launching the railway connection Rzeszów - Ocice - Warsaw - to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Rzeszów, the capital of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, and the entire Podkarpacie region have no direct rail connection with the capital of the country, with Warsaw. The efforts to modernise in the first stage of railway line 71 Rzeszów - Ocice were undertaken by parliamentarians of the Law and Justice of Podkarpacie in the years 2005-2007, during the rule of law and justice. In the following years, individual elements of railway infrastructure in the section Rzeszów - Ocice were implemented in small steps. Before this investment there is a necessity to electrify 67 km of the Rzeszów-Ocice route. This will enable the development of the agglomeration railway in Podkarpacie, which is preferred by the Management Board of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, but the connection of Rzeszów and Warsaw with the rapid railway requires the implementation of railway sections located in other voivodships: in Świętokrzyskie voivodship and Mazowieckie voivodship. So I'm asking the Minister questions. What is the progress of modernization on railway no. 25 Skarżysko-Kamienna - Ocice and on railway no. 8 Warsaw - Radom? What are the financial expenditures planned for this year for the various sections of this large railway investment? How much does the whole railway investment cost, from Rzeszow to Warsaw? What is the expected total investment costs? To carry out what basic tasks are envisaged this year, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] planned for this investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u65	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Bittel corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. It must be said at the beginning that the Polish government, with the help of the national infrastructure manager, carries out the investment task described in the National Railway Programme with a total value of PLN 66 billion by 2023. These are national and national measures, and from the Eastern Poland Operational Programme, and from the Connecting Europe Facility, and from the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and Environment. It should also be said that the issues that you have been asking about are important in this programme. Indeed, for today, passenger connections between the voivodship railway, when it comes to the merger of Rzeszów - Warsaw, are not satisfactory for all of us, although some progress should also be noted here. He rightly mentioned that investments are being carried out, because in terms of investments linked to the connection to Lublin, with the line to Lublin, this contract has been concluded, is implemented in three stages or even in four - fourth stages is the traffic control system. And these works are going on, design works, where the realization works are prepared. The same is true when it comes to connection, line 8 to Radom. There are also contracts in place that will result in this implementation being carried out, and it will proceed. As far as line 25 is concerned, a feasibility study is currently being developed and it can be said that the moment when the feasibility study begins is the first step towards the implementation of the investment, and we are planning to complete it in 2020. Line 74, Ocice - Stalowa Wola liaison - we also have a feasibility study being prepared. The project and construction work will be carried out on this basis at a later date. Line 68 is also included in the implementation. It is being implemented within the framework of the Eastern Poland Operational Programme and is planned to electrify it throughout the whole section. It is a project worth 367 million, planned to be implemented in the years 2017-2019. And line 71, because it must not be forgotten, is implemented within a wider project. It is about works on railway line No 71 Rzeszów - Ocice, and this wider project is called the modernisation of the railway line Rzeszów - Warsaw by Kolbuszowa, stage II. Here, as the Member mentioned, work on speeding has been done before, and at the moment we have the task of electrifying this line. The tender for electrification of this line will be launched in the first quarter of 2018. On the other hand, there is also the issue of mist in a place called Majdan the Royal, and this tender was announced for the implementation of September 29. All this work is going on and they are going to make it possible to reduce travel time, increase capacity, and let us not forget to increase the load capacity of railway lines, and we will be able to offer a better offer when it comes to passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u67	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this information, very good for the people of Podkarpacie, but we would like to hear again with Mr Nobleman and Members of Podkarpacie whether this term is real. And what is the real date of completion of the entire investment from Rzeszow by Kolbuszów, Nowa Dęba to Warsaw. In fact, it must be said that to date more than PLN 250 million have been spent on works on the section of Kolbuszów - Ocice related to the modernisation of this line. The railway station in Kolbuszowa was also built. I also have this question, Minister: Is it true that there are problems with signing a contract with PKP Energy for the construction of traction substations, with the company that was privatized during the Civil Platform and the Polish People's Party? And when, you said, but once again, we would like to hear when the tender will be launched and what is the actual deadline for the completion of this investment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we can get the people of Podkarpacie, who are very interested in this investment, to pass it on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Bittel again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u70	If you allow me, I would like to give written information on these specific dates and amounts, because I would not like to... [[Very well, thank you.]] From the head I will not answer, because this is a few topics, there are specific stages, described already at the moment, known. But please note that these are seven investments, several billion in total. That's to be precise here, of course. Yes, there are some problems with signing connection agreements with PKP Energy, related to deadlines for implementation, agreement on these issues. These jobs go hand in hand with companies that operate in business. Unfortunately, PKP Energy is no longer in the railway sector within the meaning of the corporate merger and, unfortunately, this decision to sell the company, in my view of evil, also makes it difficult for us to act. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u71	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club, on the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in order to limit the fall in buying prices for pig live on the market and to protect the pig farmer from the harmful practices of speculative capital on the market - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u72	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Most of our agricultural products, especially Polish pork, are sold on highly competitive markets and the customer is increasingly demanding. We all know that. Most of them... The structure of farms specialising in pig production in Poland has changed considerably in recent years and is still changing. About 0.5 million farms have given up pig production while there is a steady increase in production concentration. The direct cause of these phenomena is the cost-effectiveness of production or lack of production. In my constituency, in our constituency in Lublin, due to the occurrence ASF is a protective area marked with yellow colour. These areas are not covered by the so-called. Hogan's package - aid for the levelling of sales prices for pigs for slaughter under exceptional adjustment aid. Farms holding more than 50 pigs are located there. They were not covered by this support. The inclusion of ASF in the danger zone - blue color - of individual localities was sudden. Example: August 31st. What is to be done by a farmer, a pig producer who sold a lot of pigs, about 300 pieces, from this zone one day before the announcement of this zone at a much lower price, i.e. 4 PLN and 40 gr per kg, and at that time the national average was 5,6 PLN, to 6 PLN per kg. He lost about 50,000 on that deal. zł. This farmer is unable to recover the income lost so necessary to cover the current production costs. Nor will the State guarantee adjustment aid, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the procedures were in place and the protection area was not marked on the map in blue, the danger area, although it actually was. Proximity of ASF outbreaks detected...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u73	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u74	...to 10 km from the farm in the neighbouring municipality... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u75	Mr Jacek Bogucki is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question about the price problem of pigmeat, pigs in Poland, I would like to inform you that the market for pigmeat is subject to constant monitoring in the framework of the integrated agricultural information system. In 2017, the situation on the market in the flock significantly improved. What we saw a year ago, in 2015, 2016 was the most difficult period for these producers. The price of pork was 15% in the comparable period last year. higher than the year before. Unfortunately, at the moment, we are seeing a seasonal decline in the prices of the living. In September, prices dropped by 6%. Unfortunately, this decline takes place in markets not only of Poland, but also of the whole of Europe, in European countries, and it is also directly shifting to live prices in Poland. In the last week of September, the average price was PLN 5.1 and was comparable to the prices used in other countries of the European Union. Fewer than in Poland, large pig producers were paid in five countries: Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Denmark and, of course, Estonia. The fall in prices is influenced by population growth, as in Poland it increased by 4.5%. , and in other countries also increased at an average of 1% This year. In August 2017, Poland was concentrated by more than 8% more pigs than in July and 11% more than August. Thus, the overall situation affects the situation of each farmer. With regard to this specific issue raised by the Member in the protection area around the areas of African swine fever, there is no reason for lower prices to be applied by buyers. There are no restrictions on trade in these pigs. Meat of these pigs is full-value meat and can be sold throughout the European market. There are restrictions on trade to third countries. Some countries do not buy meat from Poland at all, some apply their own regulations, in which they exclude entire Polish voivodships, where African swine fever occurred, from the possibility of delivering pork to their markets, but they are markets generally distant and not decisive in terms of prices, about the possibility of selling Polish pork. This type of practice is unacceptable. I would ask you to provide information in which case such use of the farmer's situation has taken place and not to pay the appropriate amount, with reference to the possibility of obtaining support. Support in the protection area does not apply. So-called. The yellow zone is not used because there are no trade restrictions for meat. The label is obtained the same as meat from the white zone, i.e. from the rest of Poland. We will look at this individual case in order to avoid it in the future and to make sure that the purchasers do not apply this type of practice. And here, of course, we are also able to intervene and inform the bet that it has misled its counterparty. Our support measures are targeted at areas at risk and protection, designated around the outbreaks, because this is the most difficult situation, because meat from these areas, of course healthy meat from healthy pigs, tested in accordance with Union and international law, can only go to heat treatment - therefore it actually gets a lower price, but this price is compensated, at least until now it has been compensated, we are working on a system of further compensation - as well as areas where African swine fever occurs in feral pigs or pigs, i.e. areas of the blue zone, where also [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will compensate and compensate farmers for losses in various forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u77	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Teresa Nolas, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u78	Minister, ASF is a terrible disease, it's a huge loss of material farmers, but also a great and strong traumatic experience. In view of such a serious problem, many pig farmers have received decisions by a district veterinarian refusing to pay compensation within the meaning of Article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 8th Animal Protection Act and the fight against infectious diseases. By applying the above procedure, the decision is final, and it follows from its explanation that the unsatisfied farmer may, within one month, bring a civil action before the regional court and, of course, be liable to additional costs in this case. But many lawyers also argue that this is contrary to the constitution's provisions, art. 78, and the provisions of the Administrative Code. Taking into account this fact and this phenomenon, if even in this particular case the authorities [[♪ The bell ♪]] the veterinary authorities act on the basis of provisions of a specific nature, whether this problem cannot be dealt with more in human terms and the application of Article. 49...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u80	...the previously cited bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u81	Mr Jacek Bogucki is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u82	...where the regulations say that, at the request of a district doctor, a doctor of the voivodship...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u83	Madame, you have run out of time to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u84	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that the purpose and substance of these provisions is to solve two problems. Most importantly, when there is a disease that threatens the entire Polish economy, which threatens the entire pig sector, which is estimated at PLN 20 billion in annual turnover, the activities of veterinary services, which appear to be very restrictive in individual cases, must lead to a maximum reduction of the risk of spreading the disease. The cases of the last time that occur confirm such a theory, and this is the reality, that if the primary source of infection is wild animals, wild animals, it is very easy to spread the disease between farms, because subsequent outbreaks explode in the same villages chained, one by one. Unfortunately, many farmers do not fully understand the seriousness of the situation and do not follow the principles of bioinsurance. To date, these rules have not really been very costly and complicated. Only in such cases shall district veterinarians refuse to pay compensation when the farmer grossly violates the rules. But there is also a second reason why this provision applies, that the decision comes into force immediately and becomes final. We want to pay these compensations as soon as possible to farmers who have the right to compensation, because killing animals on a holding that was fully protected, in many cases prevents the existence of such holdings and without compensation, these holdings will not survive, and only the final decision is the basis for payment of compensation. The procedure has therefore been as simplified and shortened as possible. Unfortunately, it works both ways. In the case of both a positive decision and a negative decision, there is a judicial route for farmers. This road is possible to use. In any case, if the farmer is dissatisfied and informs [[♪ The bell ♪]] before referring the matter to the court, the authority may review the case and amend its decision. I hope there aren't a lot of cases like this. Please also inform the Ministry about such cases. We will also intervene in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club, on the regulation of the adult education system - to the Minister for National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes in the system of organising and financing adult education are needed. The problem is too low the effectiveness of education and, consequently, a small proportion of graduates and external examinations. Today, adults are better educated in public schools than in non-public schools. The amount of grants to schools does not affect the quality of education or its effectiveness. In Poland in 2016, more than 3,800 adult schools were established and more than 400 thousand were educated. Listeners. Non-public schools played a dominant role in adult education. The award of grants to non-public schools is determined only by the fact that a given listener attends at least half of the compulsory classes per month. The personal signatures of the listeners on the attendance lists are required. Thus, the grant received does not affect the quality of school education or the effectiveness of this education, i.e. the fact that the student has graduated from school, will pass a diploma or an examination confirming qualifications in the profession. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following question: Is it intended to introduce a system of grants based on real educational outcomes rather than on a system of participation in classes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u88	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Ms Marzena Machalek, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u89	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because we, as the Ministry, also see the need for changes in the system of financing adult schools. We see the need for these changes in the system for organising and financing adult education and therefore we have taken very concrete measures because our goal is adult education, which will be attractive, effective, modern and flexible, education that responds to the challenges of the 21st century. When preparing solutions in this area, we take into account the extremely important role of adult education in raising the level of education and obtaining professional qualifications. This is one of the key factors determining the preparation of modern staff for the Polish economy. The Polish education system guarantees adults the universal right to education. This training includes learning in adult schools, as well as acquiring and supplementing vocational knowledge, skills and qualifications within courses provided by lifelong learning institutions, practical training facilities and vocational training and training centres. Lifelong learning in general education has different forms of organisation and objectives than vocational education. Adult general education is a dominant form of adult education, mainly second chances for people who for various reasons did not finish primary school, previous secondary school or secondary school before the age of 18. The main link in this sector is a general education school for adults. Most people who choose to study in this type of school want to get a secondary education, graduate. This is important not only for prestigious reasons, but also for them when it comes to increasing opportunities in the labour market. In these schools, there are mainly people whose early secondary education has failed or graduates of primary vocational schools. In turn, the aim of vocational education for adults is primarily to increase their chances in the labour market. The main challenge here is to adapt education to the needs of employers and the labour market. The dynamic development of technology means that education and knowledge acquired at school must be updated, supplemented and expanded during professional work. The changes in qualifications and occupations and their emergence and disappearance in the labour market make the adult school education cycle not only not too long for employers' needs but also for learners' needs. Currently, the only school providing vocational training for adults is a secondary school for those with secondary or secondary education. This school lasts from 1 to 2.5 years depending on the profession. In addition, since the 2020/2021 school year, we have introduced a second-year professional school for first-grade graduates. We therefore ensure the full range of vocational training. We also create this 2nd degree school with the aim of obtaining qualifications in the 2nd degree professional school by adults and we are preparing appropriate changes on this issue. Adults who supplement their professional knowledge and qualifications have different preferences and aspirations than those who choose general education. It is crucial for them to obtain certificates confirming certain professional qualifications, in the form of a certificate or diploma, obtained after passing external examinations. The provision of non-training or exchange-rate education is essential in this case. We therefore make it even more flexible by developing the offer of exchange-rate education. Above all, we take into account the needs and opportunities of adults, who most often have to combine learning with work or care for other family members. At the same time, we intend to allow vocational schools to conduct shorter forms of adult education. With regard to the opinion contained in the question, I would like to assure you that we largely share the comments made by the Members. We see negative developments in the functioning of adult schools and analyse them carefully. We are introducing changes to improve the effectiveness and quality of adult education. At the moment, there is a procedated draft law on the financing of educational tasks, which includes changes that are designed to organize the system of funding for education, so that it is transparent and easier to apply to local governments and school heads. We have also prepared solutions for subsidising adult schools, including a change in the way grants are calculated. One of the key solutions is to make the grant and its amount dependent on the effectiveness of education, i.e. obtaining learning outcomes, i.e. the so-called. a grant for the effect. In the case of general education schools and adult secondary schools, part of the grant will be paid to the pupil, as before, and part will be paid after a passing exam respectively. The amount of the grant will therefore depend in part on whether the person running the school will prove that the student passed the exam. The part of the grant that will be subject to the examination will be defined by appropriate weights of the educational grant. Another solution will be to subsidize only one school [[♪ The bell ♪]] for adults, where the pupil is a pupil of more than one school. Therefore, I think that we are largely responding to the challenges that arise from the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, as well as from the observations that we have as the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Now an additional question is asked by Mr Dariusz Starzycki, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the main problems related to the financing of non-public schools was the so-called issue. Virtual students, i.e. practically problems with their number, especially in network schools that run schools in several or several cities. As local authorities do not have the possibility to exchange information among themselves, it is difficult to actually establish the regularity of the expenditure of these grants. At the same time, there is a system of educational information, where public and non-public schools have to provide such information. Local authorities do not have access to this system. In order to make it easier for local authorities to check the regularity of the grant, should it not be necessary to consider giving them access, at least to that extent, to this system, which would make it easier for them to check the correct implementation of the grants granted?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u92	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Ms Marzena Machalek, is again responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u93	Thank you very much. Of course, the educational information system allows you to control what is happening in public and non-public schools, or in private, about public authority in adult education, as well as all other schools that are in the system. These changes that we are planning and are going to make, we are talking about a law on the financing of educational tasks, among others. In relation to adult schools, these are changes that will certainly... They are primarily intended to improve the quality of education, but also to help control expenditure which is in many cases unjustified, this is our observation. Therefore, we prepare such solutions, that if the student or listener is enrolled in several police schools at this point, then the grant will be only in one school. Easy enough, I have to say, we're gonna be able to confront it and check it out when it comes to the educational information system. Of course, we are counting on cooperation with local governments, because, as I said, adult education is a law and we cannot limit it, but we must limit everything that causes it in some cases to be fiction and to draw money. We will certainly support this education, which increases opportunities or increases employability in the labour market. We will certainly support this education for adults, because it is very important that an adult can find himself on the labour market in this changing reality. Please pay particular attention to this bill we are investigating. I hope that the second reading will be in the near future, because there we very strongly state that the grant will depend on the effect. There will be a grant for the listener for the moment of his schooling, but also a grant depending on whether the listener passes the exam, whether it's prom or professional. I think that this will, of course, be introduced gradually, this amount of subsidy depends on the effect, but I think this is very important, because this will result in an attitude towards the effectiveness and outcomes of adult education. I would like to stress once again that they fulfil a very important function, because today, in changing reality, an adult needs to be educated all the time, and must constantly adapt to changing realities. Lifelong learning, adult learning is very important and important. We are making changes that order this and will make it more effective, more efficient and clear adult schools. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u94	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the planned reform of research institutes addressed to the Minister for Science and Higher Education. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u95	Dear Marshal, Minister! I wanted to bring up the topic of research institutes in the context of the proposed changes, how these laws on research institutes, which were already introduced last year, changed their situation, because we know that research institutes unfortunately do not fulfil in most of the role to which they were appointed. They should be a very important part of our science, they should work with entrepreneurs, they should be a place where science meets reality, i.e. implementation. I wanted to ask: How does the Ministry plan to implement reform in research institutes? What's that gonna change in research institutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Dardziński corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, which concerns the important issue of the science system in Poland. As she said, research institutes are the part of the science that is dedicated to cooperation with economic operators and entrepreneurs. Today, when we are trying to change the Polish economy, but in general to implement reforms which are civilised to place Poland among countries that are leaders of progress and change, rather than those who are merely realizers or subcontractors, the importance of research institutes is even more important. Before I answer the question, two words of introduction. What is the problem? The problem is that research institutes are very numerous today, fragmented, even though they have been consolidated for 10 years and are subject to surveillance scattered between 16 ministers. We have 116 institutes, plus a minus, because a few are in the process of insolvency, and they are subject to 16 ministers. In addition, this subsidiary is double, because it is subject in substance to the ministers of the department concerned, while in terms of legal and financial dependency, it is supervised by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, which creates a completely unclear system. The changes that have been carried out in the Research Institutes Act so far aimed at strengthening the role of substantive supervision by individual ministers. On the other hand, the reform we have prepared is different in nature. I said: prepared by us, I used the plural, because the prepared laws are co-led by the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The first version of the reform was a law on the National Institute of Technology. It provided for the consolidation of all institutes under the supervision of the Minister of Development and certain institutes from other ministries, as decided by the relevant ministers, into one body which was to have one legal basis. After public consultation and taking into account the scientific community's comments, we changed this concept and another law was prepared according to a mechanism recommended by the institutes themselves. A network of research institutes shall be set up in place of a single legal organisation. The most important difference between these concepts is that in the first version the institutes did not have their own legal personality, in the second version they have legal personality. In both cases, our idea is to create a decentralised organisation in which most of the activities are focused at the level of institutes and proper processes are carried out by the Institutes' Directors, while the Centre, in this case the Centre of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz... Because that's what this new organism is called - the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. The establishment of an additional centre within institutes, which will act as coordinator of the activities of individual institutes, will significantly change the ability of entrepreneurs to exploit the potential of these institutes. Because we agree that institutes are not quite making the most of their capabilities, and these opportunities are large. One of the fundamental barriers is that they can work together legally in a difficult way. In other words, if there is an entrepreneur who intends to carry out a research process involving infrastructure and researchers from different institutes, then there is now a very complicated process of mutual coordination, because there is no single entity that could do so. Today, by working with the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, the entrepreneur will have access both to the entire research infrastructure that is located in these institutes and to the staff potential that is located in these institutes, and regardless of which institutes establish this cooperation, he will be able to use the resources of other institutes automatically. That's what I call it. economies of scale, and in this case we are trying creatively to exploit the experiences of our partners, mainly European ones, due to legal conditions, but not only. Most European countries have already carried out this consolidation process. He had different models, sometimes it was the commercialization of research institutes and the appointment, as we proposed, of one organization. In France there is a stage of networking, a bit like we do. In Germany, we are dealing with an association that has set up research institutes. Whatever form this process takes, one thing is important: the work of individual institutes must be coordinated by a centre, this centre should have a minimum range of its own scientific activity, while the maximum level of support for institutes, especially in the area of intellectual property protection, legal support and business support, i.e. commercialisation. And it is as if these three main objectives of the reform are to increase commercialisation, activate the scientific community and protect intellectual property, so that it remains in Poland. If we could implement the Law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, there would be a third-largest research network in Europe that could compete with German or French institutes in a real way, in obtaining grants from European funds at European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club, asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u99	Minister, in the context of this very substantive and factual answer to your question about the philosophy of change regarding research institutes, I would also like to point out two things. The first, of course, is a mental threshold for changing thinking about the benefits of business cooperation with science and vice versa. But there is nothing more convincing than the real benefits that result from this cooperation. So my question is going to be: What benefits will entrepreneurs have after implementing the new legislation on research institutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Dardziński again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u101	The first advantage that entrepreneurs will have is that they will have to deal with professional personnel who will be able to support them in the process of obtaining licences or patents developed on the scientific side. Because the center will just care about the purity of intellectual property, the proper proceding, quick proceding. And this is probably the most direct answer to the question of what benefit entrepreneurs will have - this benefit will be that commercialization processes within the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will have a much higher pace than this is happening today. They will also have a higher pace because scientists who will work in this network will work in these institutions, will be rewarded in the incentive system for efficiency, especially for the efficiency of commercialization processes. The evaluation of institutes will be based on an examination of indicators, which relate to how many technologies, what kind of technologies, what scale, how much revenue has been made available by the researcher concerned, the institute and the entire network introduced into the economy. This accent on the commercialization part of the process naturally causes scientists to be oriented towards entrepreneurs. They will respond to their needs, they will also try to overtake their needs to a much greater extent than they do now. In classical research institutes, scientists are evaluated under the same parameterization conditions as academics at universities. Since universities are mainly focused on basic research, publications are primarily the result of these basic research. Both research institutes and universities conduct research in the same area, which is far more distant from economic problems than we would like it to be in reality. Changing the shift from basic research to application research, focusing on entrepreneurs will make it much faster to obtain the possibility of help and support from this scientific potential, which will be gathered in the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, but not only because the research network will certainly also cooperate with all other institutes in preparing grants or building consortia that will carry out specific projects. I forgot to say in my previous speech, and I think it's important that this bill is included in the government's work plan. She has already been consulted twice in an interministerial consultation. We're planning that she should be in the Sejm around the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u102	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, on the action plan to be taken to improve the financial situation of resident doctors, and on the proposal to address the hunger crisis of resident doctors - the Minister of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The average age of surgeons in Poland has already exceeded 50 years. Unfortunately, young people educated in Poland find themselves easily in a much better paid job in Western European countries. In the face of a reduction in the retirement age, it seems that the government transfers responsibility for society's health to specific doctors who, as part of their appointment and the Hippocratic oath, will be forced to work to death, which you wanted to avoid by introducing a pension reform. At the same time Poland is not an attractive country for doctors from less developed countries, therefore going to the West young doctors will not be able to replace them. In view of this situation, doesn't delaying real increases by up to five years lead to a fall in the health system? Isn't the Ministry's ever-growing average age an incentive for major reforms? How does the Ministry want to limit situations where doctors work above the statutory and accepted standards because they fulfil their vocation and assume responsibility for the health of patients? There are known cases when doctors died on duty from overwork. How does the Ministry want to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are familiar with all these problems that you have put forward. They are subject to a very thorough and thorough analysis. However, it is important to be clear and honest that these are problems that have arisen not in the last year or in the last two years, but have been growing for many years. As regards financial issues, I would like to remind you that the last regulation of the Minister of Health, which regulated remuneration for resident doctors, is from 2012. There were no regulations for the next few years. In order to change this bad state of affairs, we proposed in September this year. amendment of that Regulation on the basic salary of monthly doctors and dentists specialising in residency. In addition to raising the minimum rate for all areas of medicine, it has also been proposed to increase this rate for areas that are listed as so-called. priority specialities. Considering, among other things, These elements, which you have requested to mention, so that a large group of surgeons have exceeded, but not only, two additional groups of specialties have been set aside as deficit-free as possible. It was proposed as one of the elements of the health policy of the state incentive supplement for doctors who would like to start this specialisation. This motivating supplement for the doctor is in the amount of PLN 1200 per month. Six specialties were proposed: emergency medicine, family medicine, pediatrics, general surgery, internal diseases and psychiatry. This is one of the elements by which we want to actively influence the selection of specializations, where the average age of doctors is highest. This, of course, is subject to our analysis. We know that these situations, of course, happen. The second point is that pension reform offers the possibility of early retirement, but it also offers the possibility of longer working in accordance with pension rules. So that this is not a situation that requires the end of the job. Everyone, of course, how they feel, how they have the opportunity, will be able to continue their work. In the course of the work, i.e. external consultations, this regulation has been subject to a great deal of voices from national consultants in the respective areas requesting the extension of the list of these most scarce specializations, these six specializations, in order to increase this list of people, doctors entitled to this supplement which motivates them to carry out specializations, is about 1200 PLN. This project, which entered the public consultation, was dated September 27th and the recruitment for specializations was until the end of September. Those two days were enough for a lot of doctors to... We just had a crowd, a huge crowd of phones: Are these proposals real or are they going to apply from this fall call? This is the assumption that the whole of this regulation will be in operation from October, while backwards, from 1 July this year, in order to align these provisions with the health minimum wage Act of 8 June, which has been in force since 1 July. As a result of this information about the incentive allowance, as well as the entry into the salary increase path for resident doctors... Of course, this growth, as I say, is the first such increase in five years and in other specializations it is not as big as we could expect. On the other hand, the total costs of these proposals are 82 million, which have been transferred - this increased pool - from the Labour Fund. As a result of both these many requests from national consultants and individual doctors, as well as the analysis of the submitted requests for allocated residences, we managed to extend the list of specializations, which will be covered by this incentive supplement of 1200 PLN per person, to 20 specializations. So all the so-called specializations. deficit, i.e. from this list, I will read it now, that is: anesthesiology and intensive therapy, oncology, geriatrics, hematology, emergency medicine, family medicine, neonatology, paediatric neurology, oncology and paediatric hematology, oncology, oncology, pathomorphology, pediatrics, psychiatry of children and adolescents, oncology, oncology, paediatric dentistry, general surgery, internal diseases, paediatric cardiology, orthodontics and psychiatry, that is 20 specializations, we want to include this motivational supplement, while we are currently in the process of accurate cost calculations, because the number of applications reported exceeds the number originally planned for these six deficit areas. But I think these 20 specialties because of the enormous demand... These are the specializations that are contained in the 2012 regulation of the Minister of Health, defined as [[♪ The bell ♪]] priority, plus the six deficits I mentioned at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u106	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As an orthopedist and a traumatologist, I can only ask: Why are these areas not among these deficits? Please bear in mind that, because of the difficulties of this specialization, most women who graduated from medical school are failing us. They don't decide on such a hard profession. But ad rem. I have one more question. What is the reason for delaying the increase in medical salaries in the face of the government's information about the state's excellent financial condition? Should not the changing structure of age - again - and health quality requirements - provide a sufficient incentive to increase health expenditure as soon as possible? Please note that the miners also found money, and for the employees of the IPN, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for the soldiers. Why is Minister Radziwiłł so inefficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards delaying, I would like to point out that it has now been submitted to the agreement a draft law increasing expenditure in the health sector to 6% GDP in the perspective of 2025. This is a project of the Ministry of Health that has been transferred to government level arrangements. It is a document that will be processed in the near future so that it can start to apply from 1 January 2018. This is the first real increase in expenditure foreseen for the next 8 years in relation to GDP growth. This GDP growth planned there is an average annual increase of about 0.2%. , since the current record level this year more than 4,7% GDP to 6% in 2025. This is the real path to getting to these larger inputs. Of course, when it comes to spending in OECD countries, the average is higher, 6.8% , and the claims of a group of residents were that it would be 6,8%. As a result of talks with a group of residents that took place on Tuesday, these expectations were lowered to 6%. GDP. So here we are convergent, but of course we are different in the dynamics of the investigation to this level. Residents from the early 3 years agreed to delay this until 5 years, i.e. 2021 or 2022. Yesterday's talks, the Prime Minister, were moving in this direction and there was the will to try to find the opportunity to reduce the time to reach 6% by 2025, but such a decision cannot be taken responsibly suddenly, from one hour to the next. Therefore, this proposal for quick talks to determine in which year - whether it will be 2024, 2023, 2022 or 2021 - we will be able to come to what is expected by both parties, because, as I say, there is a draft law from the Ministry of Health, as well as the expectations of doctors resident to reach 6%. as soon as possible. Of course, you don't need to be an economist here to know that this is also dependent on economic development forecasts, on the cost of handling foreign debt, on the level of public finance deficit, which is closely monitored by the European Union, and there is a threat of entering the deficit reduction procedure again. And these are all the elements that need to be worked on. On the other hand, back to the increase in investments for residents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to say how it was year-to-year with the amount allocated to resident doctors: for 2013 it increased by 66 million PLN, for 2014 dropped by 13 million PLN, in 2015 there was an increase by 9 million PLN, for 2016 - by 67 million PLN, for this year, 2017 we already planned an increase by 142 million PLN, and for the year came 125 million PLN, year by year. These are really very high growths, record-breaking since 2009. Thank you very much. As for the specialisation of orthopedics, as I say, they are constantly subject to, so to speak, to the assessment of conclusions and interest, so that I strongly encourage you to submit an application extending this list for specialisation from orthopedics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the Government's draft act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Formal conclusion. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was just in the pass office. At this point, the Sejm is being tried by residents. They're already getting their passes and coming in, it's been impossible before, so they can't get to the gallery in time to hear about their case. Therefore, very...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u112	Thank you very much, Member. This is not a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u113	...sir Marshal so human, so human...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u114	Yes, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u115	...on behalf of the club, to order a 15-minute break so that residents can enter the gallery and listen to the information of the current Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u116	Thank you very much. Madame, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u117	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u118	Thank you, ma'am. [[But that concerns the agenda.]] We proceed with the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: Information...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u119	Mr. Marshal, this concerns the agenda. And I ask you to take a break on behalf of the club. It's always been a good habit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u120	Member, but please leave the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u121	Mr. Marshal, it's always been a good habit. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u122	Yeah, I heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u123	...take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u124	We're not gonna take a break right now because we're not gonna interfere with the agenda. Thank you, Member. [[It'll be remembered.]] We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this sitting of the Sejm, information will be considered on the ongoing hunger protest of resident doctors, which was presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing today in the dramatic situation of a long-term hunger strike by resident doctors. I want to start by reminding you of the date of May 24, 2016, when the nurses of the Children's Health Center take a protest, a dramatic protest, ending with the closure of four branches: immunology, endocrinology, diabetesology, paediatric urology. And then on the 8th day of this strike Minister Radziwiłł, Minister of Health, says: If I am needed there on the spot, then of course I will go. On the 14th day of this strike, the Minister of Health says: Nurses have crossed the limits of professional ethics. The striker's all about the money. The strike at the Children's Health Center lasted 16 days, and just like today, it was impossible for the Minister to force him to go, talk and effectively end the protest. On 2 October this year, residents after 2 years of information, appeals begin the most dramatic protest in the history of recent years in the health system - hunger protest. The Minister of Health appears on Tuesday 3 October and then for 6 days, I'm sorry, 7 days, nothing. The government doesn't see starving residents. The government thinks that this problem simply doesn't exist. The Minister abdicates. If it weren't for us to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee in which we appeal, we would demand information from the government, he probably wouldn't have gone there any more. He went - unsuccessfully, after which residents are invited to the Prime Minister's interview. These residents get an offer they can't accept, and the strike goes on again. We demand from the Prime Minister an effective solution to the problem of starving residents. We demand a fair offer. We demand a government meeting on this matter at last. Because we are dealing with the situation that the Minister of Health is actually disappearing, abdicating on this matter, the Prime Minister is a completely helpless person, and the Minister of Labour today publicly speaks of the fact that the Labour Fund is not paid for residency. So I kindly inform the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour that in the Act on Doctors' Profession exactly in the article. 16j says the state pays doctors for residency from the Labour Fund. Now, about hard facts. Minister Religa - 2007 - publicly says that he will only be able to finance 1,200 residents. 1,200 residents. For this, 160 million PLN. In 2015, we guarantee the financing of 7000 residents. 1200 and 7000 PLN, then 160 million PLN, now 800 million PLN. These are hard facts. The financing of the health care system is increasing by PLN 30 billion at that time, giving the residents a raise. The Platform and PSL government gives a raise from PLN 2,400 to PLN 3,200, PLN 3,600 and PLN 3,900 depending on the type of residency. These are hard facts. And now I'm asking you, Minister, what are you going to do with this problem, except you keep running away from it. You say that today the medical education system is a honeyland. And these people are starving. You don't see it. As President of the General Medical Council, you support the Green Góra Agreement strike, you file constitutional complaints on the oncology package, you call on doctors to strike. You're hurting the health system, depending on what you're doing. [[Applause]] Whether you're President of the NRL or Minister of Health. You're the biggest pest in the health system. Then as a demanding, waiting, protesting activist, and today as the most helpless minister in the history of the last 25 years. [[Applause]] I ask you why we leave 146 dental residents in 2015 and you reduce their number in 2017 to 70. I'm asking you in public. You're reducing the funding of cardiology, you're shutting down cardiology centers, hospitals for rapid intervention. Plus, you're not training cardiologists anymore. We leave 180 cardiological residents in 2015, you reduce their number in 2017 to 70. I'm asking you, what did gynecologists and obstetricians do to you? We leave in terms of gynecology and obstetrics 154 residents, you reduce their number to 72. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, psychiatry, Minister, psychiatry. In 2015,355, in 2017 you reduced to 255. And finally, the Prime Minister, who - I don't want to be mean - from this place...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u126	Thank you very much, sir, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u127	I'm finishing with one sentence, Marshal. The Prime Minister's salary increased in 2 years from 16,000. to 24,000, and the Prime Minister, quoting Mr Łukasz Jankowski, the resident doctor...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u128	Thank you, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u129	...says yesterday: either you join the team and cancel the protest, or the Prime Minister will never see you again. So, Prime Minister, you will meet... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and we'll make you do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u130	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask you to respond to the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition has requested current information from the government about the ongoing hunger protest of resident doctors, the protest that has been going on since yesterday... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] ... Because it started yesterday. [[You woke up yesterday.]] [[Voice from the room: break was.]] In this connection, I would like to provide details on the dialogue process about the current situation as well as on the position of the protesting states... [[You're gonna burn in hell.]] ...as well as the proposals that the government has made so far. The agreement of Residents of the National Trade Union of Polish Doctors was reactivated - attention - in October 2015. In October 2015, this agreement of residents was reactivated, less than one month before the end of the power exercised by the PO-PSL coalition. [[We're wearing it. Conspiracy.]] This was the response of this environment to the lack of salary increases since 2009. [[Voice from the room: 2 years.]] [[It's a lie.]] Yes? And when were those raises? The Ministry of Health from the very beginning of my office in the building at ul. The honeymoon started a dialogue with residents. [[You're doing great.]] Until the start of the protest in the previous week, at least 18 meetings were held with representatives of the residents' agreement and I personally took part in these meetings myself several times. The last meeting before the protest was held courtesy of the Medical Society of Warsaw on Thursday 28 September. During this meeting, I proposed new conditions for the remuneration of resident doctors. We also agreed on a long range of non-paying environmental expectations, especially in the area of post-graduate education, especially specialisation. Here it is, you can say, practically complete consent. Further meetings with me, already during the protest, took place, Mr Arłukowicz, Tuesday 3 October, Wednesday 4 October and Monday 9 October. [[But there was no protest back then. The protest has been since yesterday, according to you.]] During that time I visited your residents twice, during the night I met directly with those who were starving. [[How?]] In the meantime, on Saturday with representatives of the residents' agreement, you met Deputy Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz, and earlier on Friday 6 October, directors and advisors from the Ministry of Health established mediation rules with the participation of residents and mediator of the Warsaw Medical University. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr Arłukowicz why you were speaking in public untruths, you simply lied during the previous interview on the RMF radio, but also today, here from this stand, stating that no one has been seeing residents since Wednesday. That's not true. We dated almost every day. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But there was no strike according to you.]] And given that you're an applicant's representative... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] ...you can rehabilitate yourself tonight in front of the High Sejm. And I appeal that you simply correct the foolishness and lies that fall from this bleacher and in various public places. [[To the point, Minister, to the point.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] Turning to the issues discussed during these meetings, during these numerous meetings with resident doctors, it must be pointed out that their crowned demand is, of course, an increase in their salaries. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] I would like to point out proposals for increases on my part which were received by the protesters, and - as I said - even before they started the protest. Any doctor resident in Poland can count on gradual increases, which will be paid with effect from 1 July 2017 and will be implemented annually from January 2018, so very soon until 2021. I can state clearly that at the end of 2021 there will be no resident doctor in Poland who would earn less than PLN 5250. [[In 2021, you'll be gone.]] That's over 2,000. - Attention - over 2,000. more than the current minimum resident salary resulting from the Regulation. $2,000. more in 4 years, starting from July of this year, which has already passed. [[The national average has already increased.]] The government has also prepared measures to support residents in those areas which are priority for the system and, above all, for patients. It is quite clear that the residency is a tool in the hands of the Minister of Health, a tool for active health policy. To date, the differentiation of speciality into ordinary and priority was virtually no reflection on the choice of doctors concerned. We are primarily concerned with such specialties as: pediatrics, internal medicine, rescue medicine, family medicine, general surgery, clinical oncology, haematology, specialties, which doctors after completing their internship do not want to choose at all. We offer each resident who will start such a specialization, in one of these areas, a 1200 gold incentive supplement per month. As a result of the increased number of specialist doctors will guarantee safety, such elementary safety for patients, and consequently reduce waiting time for specialists. This solution leads to the fact that every other doctor - exactly 53% starting a residency - already from autumn will receive 1300 and from 1 January 2018 by 1450 PLN more than so far. These are not symbolic increases. [[Applause]] 1300, 1450 more than today. [[But when?]] Since December, when they begin their specialization, 53%.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u132	Mr Nitras, do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u133	The government is going to... [[Now. Now.]] ...in 2018 PLN 1179 million for salaries for resident doctors and trainees. [[Applause]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is 40%. more... [[The residents are applauding you.]] ...than spent on it for our predecessors in 2015 40% more than in 2015 [[How much did you pay for the infirmary?]] We also increase the number of residences, because we realize how important access to a specialist doctor is for Polish patients. [[Applause]] In less than two years, we've made more than 10,000 available. residences. Mr Arłukowicz, shouting just now, separated them less during his 3.5-year ministerial office. Those numbers you've been quoting are simply untrue. [[Applause]] [[From your ministry.]] Mr President, let me remind you how much money you have won, because now you are fighting for residents during these years of office at Honeymoon. At the time of your office, this was a total of half of what you now expect from the Labour Fund for this purpose. 70 million in four years. [[And how many residents did he do?]] 70 million. In 2 years we added over PLN 360 million to this category of expenditure. [[Applause]] That's five times more in twice the time. [[And that's why they're starving?]] [[Voice from the hall: And that's why there's hunger.]] Another of the demands of resident doctors is to increase the expenditure on health care. We do it and we plan to do it even braver. In 2017, we increased health expenditure to over PLN 87 billion, i.e. by PLN 8 billion more compared to 2016, reaching the highest historical health account result at a level that currently exceeds 4,7% GDP. [[Applause]] It's not over. In 2018 there will be this money more by another nearly 6 billion PLN. [[Applause]] These are partly contributions from the contribution increase due to good economic conditions and partly additional budgetary money. I think the former Prime Minister, Ms Ewa Kopacz, remembers how, in her time of office, the ministerial chair first, and then as Prime Minister, the issue of health protection measures was dealt with. Moreover, this hypocrisy has recently been shown by the TVN Facts, a television that is really unfavorable to the current government. When Mrs. Kopacz was Prime Minister, instead of increasing the money to treat Poles from the budget, this budget was transferred to the NFZ... [[But we're talking about residents.]] ... thus reducing funds for health benefits for Poles. [[Have you made a mistake?]] That's exactly what happened to the vaccines, and, ladies and gentlemen, the liquidation of the doctor's post-graduate internship, which was... [[What do you want, residents to vaccinate?]] [[Shut up.]] Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki: Mr Nitras, I am warning you that I am about to proceed with the procedure. [[What did I do to warn me?]] You're interfering with the proceedings. [[Why don't you have some friends...]] You're disturbing me right now. [[Go to the gallery and keep your mouth shut.]] Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł: This project, apart from many other effects that could have done, meant simply saving budget expenditure. Luckily we turned around, we've already reversed those bad ideas. [[Applause]] More, we put in the money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for vaccinations that are funded... [[What about the residents, Minister?]] [[He said a lot, you're deaf.]] ...from the budget and we funded the pneumococcal vaccinations. It's over a thousand gold relief in the pockets of young parents. We've restored the internship. [[I hear about the vaccinations.]] We are not just doing this. Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government is working on a bill that will raise... [[We're the ones who prepared the project.]] ...health expenditure up to 6% GDP. We hope that this can be done earlier than in 2025... [[2 years.]] ...which we just assumed. The proof of our determination, because these are not just plans, is the transfer to health of PLN 3 billion from a 5-billion-dollar budget surplus this year. [[Applause]] [[Can't this be done for residents?]] This year too, the law on how to determine the lowest wage in medical professions is in force, which will increase the wages of health professionals by PLN 17 billion over the next 5 years. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Who is criticized by trade unionists.]] These are the most important actions we take in the area of postulates...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u134	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u135	...to be notified by the residents' agreement. [[Oh, here comes a normal marshal.]] [[Shut up.]] We don't abdicate our role, we don't have time for that, because apart from the mess in the health care department you left us, there are a lot of other dead bodies in the closet. [[But time, time!]] If there's a lot of them, you can see, ladies and gentlemen, after a bunch of papers that every day... [[Mr. Minister's time is up.]] ...I'm getting on my desk. That's, among other things. the results of the subsequent checks... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] ... The Supreme Chamber of Control, covering the period when Mr. Bartosz Arłukowicz was just... [[Speak of the residents at last.]] [[Voice from the room: We're wasting time.]] ...the Minister of Health. At the top - about... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u136	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u137	...the implementation and implementation of the oncology package, the Minister's flagship idea, which quickly... [[Something about residents.]] ... We had to correct... [[Embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u138	Minister, thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u139	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u140	No, no, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u141	...because it made access difficult, didn't improve access to treatment for patients... [[Time's up, good punch line.]] ...with oncology. And oncology hospitals... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[That's a good point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u142	Minister, you'll still have time to close the discussion. Thank you very much, Minister. We must abide by the rules. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak up again? [[Yes.]] You still want it, don't you? [[Yes, he does.]] Okay, come on in. I'm closing the list of speakers. Now we have this situation that 60 people came forward, 58. Therefore, I would suggest limiting the time to ask questions to a minute or to cut the list. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[No...]] Excuse me? [[Then it's over...]] [[And do you know that the residents haven't come in yet because there's a problem with the entrance?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's just that we have an hour to discuss, and I have one right now... [[We have time, you should have time.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I? It's a formal matter.]] Well?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u143	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We appeal to your marshal because the residents who are interested in this debate have not entered the courtroom in a special way... [[They weren't allowed in.]] ...to let residents in so they can listen to this debate... [[Voice from the room: Do they have parliamentary IDs?]] ...which is important for the Polish patient, but also for... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u144	Okay, Member, thank you. This is not a matter for discussion. [[Mr. Marshal, let's wait for the residents.]] [[Mr. Marshal, just let them in.]] Good. Do you agree to a minute? [[One and a half.]] So we're cutting the list, right? [[One and a half.]] [[One and a half, one and a half.]] If there's no consent, we do it in two minutes and cut the list by half, right? [[Yes, sir.]] One minute? Is everyone okay for a minute? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Yeah, okay. Time - 1 minute. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] In a moment, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject is undoubtedly difficult and necessary to solve, but I regret that the state cannot tell the truth. Minister Arłukowicz, you know very well that these increases have not been made since 2009, neither has there been a dialogue with residents. [[7,000. residents. 7,000.]] And don't add up all the residents in a couple of years... [[Not all of them, 15.]] ... Because the Minister has given away more residents in two years... [[To shore.]] ...there were more residents than during your 3.5-year reign. [[Stick to the facts.]] It's worth it, ladies and gentlemen, to stick to the facts. The fact is, these increases weren't there, and now it's going to be that the increase in health expenditures wasn't there, and now it will be. Because my time is running out, I'm going to ask the Minister again about the exact numbers of new residents in the past coalition and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, how much is there now, and also what the raises were like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u146	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that our debate is being listened to by representatives of residents. Welcome back, folks. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Mrs Ewa Kopacz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address the Minister and the absent Prime Minister. I hope he's watching this debate. [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] [[At work.]] I'd like to remind you that you've been in charge for two years. You take responsibility for everything that's going on in health care right now. I know it's convenient to go back to the past, but today you're responsible for this health care. It is today that young people who want to serve Poles and Poles in their ministry are starving. If you so often try to define adjectives as predecessors, then with all responsibility I will say: this government is a government of total arrogance and ignorance. [[Applause]] Minister, ignorance because you didn't really know what the residency and internship were financed from yet at the Health Committee meeting. It is the ministers of this government who are telling today... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's it.]] ...that the Labour Fund isn't about funding residents. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] And I'm going to say, instead of raising their salaries, you want to vaccinate them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u148	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Residents! In this whole discussion, there is such a false image that these young people are only after their money, and that is not true. These young people show that the safety of Poles is at risk. They say that expenditure on health care in Poland is too small. They demand, and I agree, that the health expenditures be higher, that they be as recommended by the World Health Organization. Questions to the Minister: What about the idea of medical secretaries? What happens to working on an integrated medical information system? That's what we spend big money on in a year. These young people are not only concerned with their money, but this is also important because we want to stop these young people from going to better paying countries. That's something to understand. Your reforms without people have no chance of success. This reform of the POZ, which was shown yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, has no chance, because there will be no one to implement this reform in a practical way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people won't be in the health system. Minister, it is time to really take steps to change the safety of the Polish patient. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Petru, Modern, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two days ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki said the budget was great. The question is, if it's so good, why is it so bad? Why doesn't he have money to raise the people you send to emigration? Minister, how many doctors are missing in Poland? $30,000. How many nurses are missing? 130,000. How much does a doctor's education cost? 0.5 Million. And what are you offering them? Emigration. Therefore, the question is: Why are you not really willing to talk to those people who are here - maybe you will meet again - and solve this problem? This is PLN 1 billion. This is PLN 1 billion, and you spent PLN 9 billion this year on early retirement. This shows how badly you manage public money. [[What are you talking about?]] You don't want to give the doctors a raise because this isn't your election group. You only raise those who vote for you. This is the government's policy. This is a government policy that is a non-perspective policy. And every year as a result of this policy of doctors, there will be less and less. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u152	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The act of the greatest desperation, yet for doctors who are aware of the effects of a hunger strike on their bodies, is a sacrifice, not a struggle for their salaries, but a struggle for their patients. They emphasize it every step of the way. They say they don't want to leave our country, they don't want to accept 35,000 jobs in Sweden. Gross. They just have to be helped so they can stay here and work normally. We're not supposed to be taking responsibility today because this is the worst way you've ever taken. You come and do historical politics, and the problem needs to be solved here and now. You and the Prime Minister are responsible for solving this problem. He deals with today's situation of young doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists they're fighting for, too. This problem cannot only be dealt with through wages and salaries. It concerns the whole functioning and availability of health care for the patient. First of all, the patient is placed first. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't have any questions for you today, Minister. We have no questions for the Prime Minister. We have a demand to meet the expectations of resident doctors who appear on behalf of patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At yesterday's press conference, Prime Minister Szydło said that the issue of health pay must be treated comprehensively. That's right. The issue of resident doctors must be dealt with comprehensively, but the issue of resident doctors must also be resolved in the end. For many years it has been a problem of the number of residences, but also of salaries. In view of the above, Minister, I would like to ask whether you have a policy today in a few years' time with regard to the number of residences, but also with regard to measures to take account of the increases for these residents. My second question concerns young people studying medicine. Do you think of such instruments today, too, so that they are not forced to go abroad to work? We complain they're leaving us, they're going abroad, they're working there, but, folks, if we don't create good conditions for them here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we'll never get rid of this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u156	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The fundamental demand of strikers is to increase health expenditure to 6,8% GDP over 3 years. Minister, is this a real demand? Simple calculations. Out of the current situation, either in 2016 or in 2017, achieving such a level over 3 years will result in the need to spend more than PLN 60 billion. To illustrate this well, let us take the hypothetical assumption that this is financed entirely by an increase in the health contribution. The health contribution would then have to be increased by more than 80% within 3 years. It's not enough if we don't assume national income growth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would still have to be raised by over 55%. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Two billion for airplanes quickly found themselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u158	Thank you. Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These strikers, these starving young doctors are actually the best of your students and your pupils. It was you, Minister, when they were studying, who said the system wasn't working, and it was you, Minister, who wanted to be their master and how it should be done. So now it's time to check. It was the Prime Minister who said... [[He will.]] ...you have to listen to the sovereign. So the question is whether these young people on strike are your sovereign, or whether they're not your sovereign. [[They're ours.]] They're not fighting for anything else, they're fighting for these demands, Mr. Minister, which was your flag: closing the queues, increasing the funding. So the question is why you don't do it after the announcements. That's the cry of despair right now. The cry of despair of young doctors, the cry of despair of patients, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who were on strike two days ago because they're shutting down because they're reducing the number of residents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u160	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Every day of this hunger protest by doctors This is an accusation, an accusation of both this crew and the previous one. We have a medical emergency. We have a situation that is becoming more and more like a 2007 white town. We have a situation where people decide on a dramatic form of protest, which is hunger, which is the one that weighs on their health and which puts their lives at risk. But they protest on behalf of all of us. They protest because we all feel safe as Poles with safe health care. You're bragging about having a good budget income, that you have a higher income than you expected. Why, if so, are you looking for priorities everywhere but in health care? Enough! When will health care become a priority for the rulers? [[60% is for health care.]] When are you going to actually rebuild the Polish health service or even build it? Because she was never good. And when will you resign, Minister? ♪ 'Cause it's real ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u162	Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Residents! Minister! Well, we couldn't bribe the resident doctors. It didn't work out because these people have their own character and not only fight for higher salaries, but they're really fighting for health protection for all of us, for you, too. I'm a young mother and I'm in contact with women who come into my office and say they can't get into a specialist's doctor today. What's gonna happen in five years? I would like to say that today at least this part of the Sejm side and most Poles are very proud of you, proud that you stick to your priorities, proud that you have not been bribed. I hope you will change your message and change your decisions because today's PiS message is very inconsistent. On the one hand, you are bragging about the surplus in the state budget, giving increases to the employees of IPN. I have the question: What is your priority? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Employees and historical policy of the IPN or is it the most important area of life, because there is no more important area of life than health care? Maybe this field of life should be the most important thing for this government and for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u164	Thank you, Member. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have questions. I'll go straight to them. Minister! Is it true that the problem of resident doctors, which has recently been mentioned very much, especially that of Minister Arłukowicz sitting here, did not arise yesterday or the day before yesterday or a year ago, but has existed for more than 8 years? Is it true that Minister Arłukowicz, present here at the moment when the problems were reported, did not respond and did nothing about the resident doctors? [[It's not true.]] Is it true that the state of health care is a prostrate to the long-term negligence of the PO-PSL government... [[Two whole years, two whole years.]] [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: 2 years.]] ...and it's our government that's fixing what the PO-PSL government has ruined? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform chant: 2 years! Two years! Two years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u166	Order in the courtroom. Mr Rutnicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u167	Mr Arłukowicz! When a man points a finger at someone, he should remember, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The other four point to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're supposed to write poems.]] [[Shut up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2015 end of October, health market forum, end of parliamentary election campaign. We are sitting in a debate with the Minister and the Minister says: at least 6% GDP of health expenditures in two to three years at the latest. Two years, Minister. And what happened? In the same debate, the current Minister, then the candidate for senator, responds to the specific question addressed to him, how many residents should earn, how many specialists: residents at least two national averages. Minister! 2 years. Twitter doesn't forget, the forum is also saved. And what does it turn out to be today? If it weren't for those young people who can leave at any time because they're well-educated, they know languages, but they want to work for us, for our own... [[Let them go.]] Let them go. Look, it's for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Says the PiS Member. Let them go. Instead of thanking you, bow down for what you're doing for the whole... [[Voices from the room: scandal! Scandal!]] ...health care in Poland, we hear: let them go. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Let them go, right? This is the PiS policy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u170	Okay, thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u171	Don't go. We will fight better conditions for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u172	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm even surprised at this debate. You should apologize to these countries, the doctors. These are the people who are saving our lives. It's a shame and a disgrace. [[Voice from the O.R.: You leave.]] Minister! You're comfortable in this chair... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Throw your tickets.]] Are you comfortable sitting down? 2 years. I'm not interested in 8 years of Platform and PSL, I'm interested in two years of your non-work, bringing ideology into medicine. Let me remind you of something. Doctors want to treat patients, but they can't risk bankruptcy - that's your word. [[Don't point the finger.]] All the blame for the mess in health care lies with the decision-makers - that's your word. Aren't you ashamed? Going with the Prime Minister to the resident doctors last night, you blackmailed them that you would meet them only and only if I stopped starving? Shame and shame! [[For their health.]] [[For your health, ma'am, for your health.]] Step out of this position, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u174	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not about meeting, it's about solving specific problems. The number of meetings does not indicate that we are moving towards a solution to the problem. To be honest: after the Monday exposé here Prime Minister Morawiecki, who boasted of his success, I believed that these problems would be solved. I also believed, when I heard that there was money for miners for outstanding liabilities, acquired rights, there appeared PLN 2.5 billion, we will pay out. Today we're going to pass this bill. Just enjoy it. I was hoping that money was for the doctors, too. [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] And today the question is: Can the professional group, which practically serves all Poles, not count on the support of the government, not benefit from the fact that, as Mr Morawiecki said, Prime Minister Morawiecki, the economy is developing great for us, we are all successful, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there enough money? My question: Did you ask Prime Minister Morawiecki to support your department? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u176	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u177	Mr. Marshal! I don't want to interrupt this debate because it's very serious, but this case can't go unanswered. Mrs Hrynkiewicz, a representative of the PiS Club, insulted our guests.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u178	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! This is a formal conclusion. I wanted to ask your marshal that, in view of the fact that the guests at the gallery were offended by an MP at the Sejm, a representative of the PiS club, you should announce a recess and have the Sejm Bureau... [[But what is the formal conclusion?]] ...sorry to the guests, Polish citizens who came to the Sejm to listen to the debate about the most important thing for them, so that the Sejm Bureau would apologize... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u180	I'll explain it to you, sir. I'll explain what's going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u181	...for the behaviour of an MP who offended Polish citizens. This is my formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u182	I encourage you to submit an application for... [[That's the conclusion.]] No, my fellow Member. No. This is not a proposal for an agenda. I encourage you to speak to the ethics committee on this matter. I agree with you that there are grounds. [[Marshal, this is not a matter of ethics committee, a Member insults Polish citizens...]] Thank you. At this point, you are already obstructing the debate, Mr President. Mrs Anna Czech, Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, Commissioner, we will not be breaking up this debate right now. [[Scandal!]] I ask you to suppress your emotions and direct your proposals to the ethics committee in the rule of law. [[The PiS Member tells Poles to leave this country.]] [[It is the Seym that bears witness to this statement.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The residents have expressed their expectations. I will repeat this here again: it is about wages, specialization and more expenditure on health protection. These topics are important and certainly understood by all of us. We're leaning over to work it out. The residents received a proposal from the Minister to increase salaries, as in this, in quotes, raise bill, probably even more, and in addition there are specialties for which there are incentives - 20 specialties received additionally 1,200 PLN. These are extra money for residents, probably as desirable as possible. We want them to work here, with us, in Poland, absolutely. But will this not cause the relationship between the salaries of resident doctors and specialists to be disturbed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second question: Were there any agreements made during the talks concerning the course of specialisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u184	Thank you, Member. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was outraged to hear those words, and I've been a doctor for about 40 years, that voice that tells doctors to leave. Maybe the next step is a work order for a penny? You're going to the commune because that's what happened at the time of the commune, but in the '50s, not the '70s. [[People were leaving, too.]] I have a question for you. The Prime Minister spoke in the election campaign about the fact that Poles have no sense of justice in this country. Well, what is the sense of justice when one day you give 1000 zlotys to IPN employees who average 5900 zlotys, not think about doctors. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] It's not true that these residents only talk about their own salaries. This is a group of people who talk about interest not theirs, but a Polish patient. Minister! Wake up. [[You guys go back to sleep.]] When you protested on behalf of the Green Góra Society, you acted in a completely different way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u186	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a doctor, I'm outraged by your statement that the hunger has been going on since yesterday. After all, as a doctor, you know perfectly well that hunger is a last resort and that hunger is a really serious challenge for the human body. Breaking it up and coming back - even bigger. That's why I don't understand how a doctor can treat starvation so carelessly. But to the point. Questions. How does the Ministry want to limit situations where doctors work above the statutory and accepted standards? Because they fulfill their vocation and instead take responsibility for the health of society. After all, there are known cases when doctors died from overwork on duty, and it is not elderly people, but young people. How does the Ministry want to prevent this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u188	Thank you very much. Our debate is listened to by groups of young people from Opoczno, Rawa Mazowiecka and Tomaszów Mazowiecki. Welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! It's been said eight years, but you're all forgetting that we've been in local government for eight years. Self - government funds a great deal of money for health care. It goes on, among other things. about voivodship hospitals, county hospitals, there are the largest funds for expansion, equipment. [[Applause]] We made it here. I say this from myself, as a deputy marshal, Marshal of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. There are also those in this room who worked or worked in voivodship hospitals. We know that the most financial resources, the most... least profitable Podlaskie voivodship for 3 years are spent on hospitals spending the most financial resources in the country per capita. I wonder if the Minister has forgotten that such voivodships of Eastern Poland, which most help health care... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you just stand there and say, "First of all, for these people, at least they make money, I'll find money in a week?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about dentistry. Will the remuneration rules and the increases you propose for residents equally cover dentists, namely dentists? That's one thing. Is the Ministry working on a change of situation when it comes to accessing specialization sites for dentists? Because, as you know, in this respect, we've just been dealing with an unthinkable situation. Thanks to this policy of predecessors, our young dentists, without any chance of specialization, because you show off 180 places, had to - more ambitiously - steal this specialization in Ukraine, Slovakia, Hungary, etc. What is the current government going to do about this situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[What are you talking about?]] You have wasted the potential of many young people in the field of dentistry who have completed their studies and had no opportunity to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u193	...education by your... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u194	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u195	Mr. Marshal! The young people who were sitting here had been standing outside the pass office for an hour and a half before. Turns out only 10 people can get in and the rest can't. [[And they heard to leave.]] Plus, they keep saying that they're young, they're hot in their heads, so they're probably irresponsible, they didn't understand how to negotiate. [[Voice from the hall: Who said that?]] These are the words of the Prime Minister. Mrs Kaczorowska said in the committee: and still people die, what we will worry about doctors, and so people die. And what did Mrs Hrynkiewicz propose to Polish doctors who treat Polish patients? What did she just say? [[Let them go!]] They want to go, let them go. [[Scandal!]] This is a proposal from the Minister and PiS Members for patients in Poland. I mean, the doctors are gonna leave, and who's gonna treat the patients? Mrs Hrynkiewicz? How about somebody else? [[No, the Tartar exorcist.]] This is an outrage. Minister, don't look for blame in young residents, don't look for blame among those who are protesting today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start talking to them about specifics, because in all this, there is a Polish patient in the background. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u196	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dramatic gesture of hunger affects all Poles and Poles, regardless of where they live, regardless of gender, regardless of age. But it applies especially to those who will not be able to afford expensive foreign therapies paid out of private money, and those who will not be able to afford to pay for a private visit to a private clinic. Minister, your resort was clear - 6% GDP is the amount necessary for the smooth operation of health care. Is the Minister holding it up? Then why do you not anticipate an increase in health expenditure in the State's Multiannual Financial Plan by 2020? Why they remain at the same low level of 4,7% ? How many doctors, Minister, are missing in Poland? How many nurses? Do you know that as much as 40% Young doctors think about leaving Poland because they work in terrible conditions, many hours for very little money? Minister, what do you want to spend your money on, if not for the most important - health? [[PiS idea: let them go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u198	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Residents! I'm gonna start my speech by giving you credit. Yours, ladies and gentlemen, determination, you can say, has liberated a debate today, a substantive debate. We're not talking about the Minister's information today, we're talking about what's going to happen to our health care in five, 10 and 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are dramatic: 30,000. well-educated, professional Polish doctors work outside our country. Each year another thousand find work outside the borders of Poland. You have children, you have grandchildren, don't you care about good, professional medical care, to be in the hands of good, educated Polish doctors? [[Voice from the room: Depends.]] [[Where were you...?]] For God's sake, you guys think about it today, because governance isn't just about giving away 500 plus, it's about dealing with problems like this today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're dating. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u200	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u201	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Baszko spoke about how well they make money in Podlaskie. I, leaving 2 years ago to the Sejm for vacation free of charge after 24 years as a nurse, with a higher education, with a specialization, 16 years as a branch nurse, received 2300 PLN, including: 20% for service years, 25% the function allowance. [[A voice from the room: It's a word for it.]] This is how I was rewarded by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party and by the former Minister Mr Arłukowicz. [[Applause]] Such low wages were received by almost all, almost all professional groups. It is thanks to the Government of Law and Justice that since 1 July there has been a minimum wage law in the healthcare sector that will regulate these matters and support health workers. [[Which no one is satisfied with in health care.]] [[Voice from the hall: They're just starving, bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. It is impossible not to recall the words of former Minister Arłukowicz, today a great defender and heroic activist [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the benefit of resident doctors. You spoke to the representatives of protesting doctors in 2014, you called them a small group trying to blackmail other doctors and patients. [[The activists, the activists, that's what I called the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u202	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u203	Today you want to, you're making...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u205	...the residents, the doctors, and he wants to raise political capital... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u206	Mr Marek Rząsa, Platform... Madam, time is up, we must stick to it. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u207	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am ashamed that our beautiful Podkarpacie is represented by a Member, Professor, who treated Polish citizens with such arrogance. Shame on you. You'll be ashamed of yourself. [[Applause]] Another major part of the 2018 budget includes the social objectives from which I started, because they are a great card of Law and Justice, what we have achieved, repairing the pathology of the Third Republic, because society did not date you in 1989, that it will create a system in which there will be so much for the few and very little for almost everyone. It is necessary to congratulate the author of the words quoted above on Mr.Matthew Morawiecki's great courage, because his statement of property clearly indicates that in the third Polish Republic he belonged to this category of pathology, which he described as few. How many years would you have to work to raise $9 million worth of property at the age of 49? 250 years. This is how the Polish state treats you, how the government of Minister Radziwiłł treats you. And that was enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just don't steal... [[Applause]] [[And what was it like in your day?]] ...just enough not to steal. And now it turns out that it's enough... [[And how did you treat them?]] ...but for them, not for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u208	You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few examples. For continuous work in stress and tension IPN employees - 1000 PLN increase since 2018 [[Up to 6,000. zł.]] CBA agents - 2500 PLN since 2017. Mining pensioners - 2,5 PLN billions for lost deputies. These are the priorities of the government of law and justice. Where's the health care? You promise to raise in 2021. Minister, you will not be here until the end of 2017. How much do you promise? 5,000. What's the percentage of the national average? 80% National average? Minister, this is a shame. I'm surprised the Minister of Health has such a position in this government. As I looked at you and the Prime Minister yesterday, I heard you offered an extra 100 PLN... I just think it's a despicable proposition for these people, for the best-educated, for the people who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They can bring... they have the future of our homeland ahead of them. What kind of proposition is that? How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u210	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The former Head of Health of the Civic Platform in a dramatic tone today talks about the protest of doctors and demands increases for them. However, as Minister of Health, he did not improve the situation of doctors, he did not raise their wages, he did not fix the situation in the Ministry. He had a chance, but he abdicated on it. If you'd leaned over the health care issues in the department, that wouldn't have been a protest. Today you want to raise political capital on it. The Law and Justice government wants a systemic change in health care. More than 40% Internship and residency expenditures have been increased. By 1200 million, the amount of remuneration for resident doctors and trainees is increased. The Act on Minimum Compensation in Health Care is 17 billion PLN. In just two years of rule of law and justice, is that not enough for you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u212	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Residents! I cordially greet you and bow for your heroic courage. I very much regret that there is no Prime Minister in this Chamber during such an important debate. [[There's nothing to say.]] Yesterday after the meeting, the Prime Minister and the residents only made declarations about the establishment of the team. Are there any records in the 2018 budget providing a raise for residents? Because it's pure hypocrisy what you're saying here. What I'm saying is that the fight isn't just about residents, it's not just about doctors, it's about health care. But the courage was great, because since the resident of Arkadiusz Baran, a doctor with an 8-year internship who works at the Warsaw hospital, is brave and showed that he earns 2,600, and the state of such a Bartłomiej... excuse me... for Bartłomiej Misiewicz... [[Misiewicz.]] ... which is [[♪ The bell ♪]] After high school, $12,000 is paid. at the Ministry of National Defence. At least the Ministry of National Defense will heal it. And for those who fight for our health... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and life, no means. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern. [[For Misiewicz always. In the Polish Armed Group 40 thousand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm on the Health Committee and the National Defence Committee. Minister, what is your position in the government? I would like to remind you that Minister Macierewicz... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u216	Mr Rutnicki, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u217	...that Minister Macierewicz has provided a raise for all soldiers for the last two years. That's 100,000. persons. After a short estimate - it was about PLN 5 billion. I have a proposition for you. If we want there to be increases in the service, in health care, I propose that Minister Macierewicz stand in your place, and then we will be calm that this money will be in the ministry. [[Applause]] [[That's good, that's good!]] And as for Mrs. Butterwska, I actually... [[Let's not put professional groups on each other.]] I graduated in 2004 and specialized in Slovakia in 2005. But if I remember correctly, I think you were in charge. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u218	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u219	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to congratulate the doctors of the residents on choosing such a beautiful missionary profession. Thank you very much to the resident doctors for ensuring that they increase their GDP to more than 6% for health care, [[Applause]] But as far as I know, that's what the law and justice government is all about. Today, I was surprised by the comment made in TVN by your resident from Minsk Mazowiecki, who said that Minister Radziwiłł proposed to increase expenditure on only six priority specialisations - an additional PLN 1200 plus an increase. Is that true? Because I've heard 20 specializations on the Health Committee, and that's a big difference. Is it true that resident doctors did not attend the Social Dialogue Council yesterday? And this is the best place to talk. I ask resident doctors to stop the strike and move on to the mediation requested by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Jesus, how can you not be ashamed? How can you not be ashamed?]] [[And then let them go.]] And one more thing. ♪ To hear the words today ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u220	Please don't disturb the appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u221	... Minister Arłukowicz: we demand from the Prime Minister... You didn't ask for it when you were Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the hall: How can you not be ashamed?]] [[And Tusk. And Tusk!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, please control your emotions and stop screaming... [[You guys are embarrassed.]] ...which bring nothing into the debate. It's okay, isn't it? [[They're gonna bring in a lot, Mr. Marshal. What kind of tone are you talking to us?]] Are we in control? [[...we.]] Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. [[What kind of tone are you talking to us?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those were outrageous words. Practically in 1968, someone approached other citizens: let them go. And Mrs Hrynkiewicz has such a prescription for resident doctors. This is a scandal and disgrace, and these words must sound in the High House. [[Applause]] The money for doctors resident must be found because they don't fight for their own, they don't fight for themselves. They fight for the health safety of Poles, they fight for the safety of patients. In this case, the government abdicated. That's why they're on strike, which is why they're reminding us that it's the government that needs to find a prescription. The Prime Minister said, "Just don't steal and the money will be there." Minister, listen to your boss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u224	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u225	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the civil courage you showed in the upper gallery. You are the future of Polish medicine because you want to study here, you want to work here, you want to treat us, but you can't do this under these conditions. Therefore, my first question is to the Minister: When will you resign? You've introduced a worldview war into health care. That's what you don't allow to seal the health system. What's leaking out of it? The human factor. There is a medical department in Opole - 100 places, over 2,000 candidates. One doctor's education costs half a million. What are these people gonna do after college? I'm afraid to emigrate. Is that your offer? Education for public money, poor wages, and then sending doctors to emigration, as proposed by the honourable Member here. [[Let them go, let them go - that's the PiS password.]] These words are the best definition of your mentality. You're not our electorate, we don't need you. But you doctors are needed by Poles, you are needed here by all those who hope that the government will be sensitive to other problems than the problems of its own electorate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u226	Our debate is attended by young people from Auschwitz High, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] I invite Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! [[Apologize, woman. Please apologize.]] Would you allow me to ask you a question? [[You'd better leave.]] [[Apologize, ma'am.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u228	Yes, I would very much like to ask the honourable Members to allow you to make an announcement...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Are the alumni... [[The voice from the room: And the apology?]] Are the medical graduates... [[Please tell me I'm sorry.]] Will you let me ask you a question? [[Apologize, ma'am.]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] [[Apologize to the residents.]] Then pass the time. Do medical graduates in Poland have an obligation to work in public health institutions in Poland? Do they, like everyone in the European Union, have the possibility to choose any job they choose? And I would like to ask you: In what proportion to the salaries of all employees in Poland are to remain the salaries of doctors, including doctors of residents... [[Do we have enough doctors?]] ...when the most paid salary in Poland in 2017 is PLN 2,800, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and an average wage that does not get up to 70% employees - 4500? [[Applause]] [[Please apologize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u230	Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The minister said to the resident doctors: you don't have a starving salary. How much does he earn every year, ladies and gentlemen, the President of Orlen, Mr Jasiński, your Member? PLN 2 million. [[Voice from the room: 2 billion.]] You say you don't have any money. Janina Goss, a friend of Jarosław Kaczyński. How much does he make a month? Over 40,000. Mrs. Sadurska, your colleague. How much does he make a month? Over 90,000. How much did she get? 140,000. And you say, Mr. Minister, that residents don't have a starving salary. Shame and shame, Minister. And you, Members of the Law and Justice, are still trying to attack, you are not showing any solutions. The Civic Platform is clear: 137 million can be found this year to help those doctors who fight not only for themselves fight for our health. [[Why didn't you find them before? That finger of yours is gonna die someday.]] Your money in the Treasury companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We see how You know how to keep them going. Misiewicz - 40 thousand, there is no problem. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u232	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Resident Doctors! Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the rationality and efficiency of your conduct. To ask, I will use such an example. There is this phenomenon: the Bear. I'm gonna use the example of a prototoplasty. Ladies and gentlemen, middle school, pharmacy employee, minister's friend. Cost of higher education: 0 PLN Mr. Bartłomiej Misiewicz. The resident doctor - 6 years of difficult medical studies, given an extremely difficult exam, a post-graduate internship, does not know anyone from the PiS. He's got 11 years of residency for $2.5,000. zł. Minister, is this rational? Someone who doesn't have an education who knows someone in PiS makes $12,000. zł. A man with a serious education, a difficult education earns 2.5,000. zł. Is that rational? Is this the protection of the citizens of our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, you find money for limousines, you spend on billboards, on stupid campaigns, I apologize for the word, and you don't find funds to keep Poles safe. This is reprehensible. This is an example... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...Mr. Minister, how incompetent you are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me start by quoting one of my fellow residents who is starving: I am starving to improve all health care. It is good that motivation involves whole health care, because it is a system composed of many elements in which the human being is located, both the one who needs medical help and the one who provides this assistance. It's just a system that we're sorting out now. We are creating a new law on basic health care, hospitalization, realizing that each of these elements requires an increase in spending so that each of us individually and all of us together can ensure health safety, namely well-being. Maintaining a balance between social demand and budget possibilities is the role of the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Whether the National Health Programme assumes an increase in healthcare expenditure and whether an increase of up to 6.8% GDP... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in the time the protesters propose, is it possible? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I don't like the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's find the money, since they're supposed to be gone. You receive a $2,000 prize every month in the government. PLN or 2.5,000. zł. And here's the money. They're not for doctors. In two years, you have transferred PLN 73 million to Tadeusz Rydzyk. Maybe that's where you want to open up medicine, medicine that you're gonna like? Non-vitro medicine, no vaccination. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Black magic.]] Let's keep looking for those missing money residents for doctors. Maybe 800 million PLN on Jack Kurski's propaganda tube so that a pseudo-diary would walk the streets of Warsaw yesterday and make a pseudosonda for one purpose, to piss people on these doctors... [[Bravo!]] ...who fight not for themselves, but for the health of all of us. [[Are doctors begging for poverty? That was the question. Are doctors begging for poverty?]] That's your answer to the distressing health care problems. Shame and shame! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[What about the Treasury company carousel?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u238	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let them go, I won't talk if the hunger doesn't stop - I'd like to point out that this is an arrogant language. It's a primitive language. This is the language used by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Well, Prime Minister Szydło, your grace does not make him talk to his society. Your Grace does not do that she is to engage with this society in an important dialogue on matters of extreme importance. But I'd like to say one thing, I think, important. Well, the army budget needs to be reduced. The army budget is out of line. There are unnecessary billions spent on steel. On the other hand, people who heal people have no money for a normal life. [[Applause]] This compromises the Polish state. There's one more thing... [[National security, sir.]] National security is health, ma'am, of the Polish society. [[This is national security.]] It's a basic issue. And one more important thing is that our young doctors, students today learn Swedish and Norwegian. For what purpose? Do you know? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u240	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's a hunger strike for resident doctors. Given the difficult material situation of these doctors, should we not ask whether this form of protest is appropriate to this problem? [[Mother...]] The problem of resident doctors wasn't born today. It's been going on for many years, Minister Arłukowicz. [[Compare the lowest wage.]] And here's my question to the minister: When was the last time doctors residents got salary increases? How much was that? How much more spending on health care this year? What are the plans for next year? How will this translate into a material situation for resident doctors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Recently, we were investigating a government project on how to determine the lowest wage for employees. It was at the turn of May and June. All the workplaces have been tied up to introduce this, of course, to negotiate. Where have you been all this time? There are also non-specialized doctors in the tables, i.e. the same can be said of resident doctors. What have you done so far? I think your superior should settle you here, because there wouldn't have been a strike if you had responded immediately, as it was written in this bill. But at the same time in the law, the state has set up zero investments for trainees this year, assuming that the trainees this year will not be increased at all. So, as I'm saying, you seem to have slept through that deadline here somewhere, and right now you have a problem with the fact that the residents are right to demand it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as the amount of PLN 5200 is concerned, it is also apparent from this table that in 2021 PLN 5200 each without specialization will receive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have led to a situation where young, educated Poles take such drastic steps as a hunger protest. They fight for a decent life for themselves, for their families, but above all for safety for patients, because they work in tragic conditions, very often exhausted, when it is easy to make mistakes. They want to work and live in Poland. If we don't stop them, they'll leave. We're in favour of a poor country to let that happen. And in response, we have the voice of the PiS Member. Let this be a symbol of your approach, your arrogance, as to the problem of residents. What's the piss messenger screaming? Let them go. I'd like everyone to hear about it. This is the PiS approach to residents. Minister! Statistical question: How many residents, how many young doctors have left Poland in the last 5 years? How many of them are back? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But above all: What government is taking steps to persuade them, to encourage them to return to Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u246	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask you to present the figures from the last few years, preferably from 10 years, how many medical graduates have had a chance to specialize in residential jobs. I know that the situation of graduates has improved considerably in recent years. For a number of years, however, the situation was that young people graduated from the medical faculty and in no way could they continue their training in specializations as part of residence posts. I have another question: Is it true that specialization lasts on average 6 years, i.e. today's situation, both related to the availability of specialists and the situation of residents, is the effect of the Platform and PSL governments? Mr Arłukowicz, please tell me when specifically, during the 3.5 years of your governments, you raised the remuneration of resident doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I cordially greet the residents and thank you for your presence today during this debate. [[Applause]] Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki was delighted to talk about the draft budget. Reduced queues, modern equipment, offices in schools. What about the doctors? There's $30,000 missing. Doctors. What did the PiS say? The PiS not only drastically reduces the number of residents by half, but in cardiology by three times, but also does not provide adequate funding for their education. The government's salary is increasing, the Institute of National Remembrance, and there are no doctors. With such a policy, there will soon be no one to treat Poles. And this is a disaster, ladies and gentlemen, which is about to happen. When will the government solve the dramatic problem of the doctors' hunger strike? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u250	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it's worth bowing down to all those who have made this desperate decision and are starving. The Minister says two years of talks, 18 meetings. After two years, what effect, Minister? Hunger. Impressive result of negotiations conducted by the Ministry of Health. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister says yes: it's enough not to steal, and it's enough for everything. I'll tell you, it's enough not to feed your Misiewicz's salaries for 90,000. A month's zloty would have been enough, too. I wonder, Minister, if you're going to meet starving strikers, you're talking about the fact that perhaps it would be worth reducing the salaries of members of the supervisory boards of the Treasury companies who earn 90,000 each. monthly. How are they supposed to feel when they see what the PiS is doing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u252	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Residents Doctors! We need you here in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Also Members of Law and Justice. [[Aren't they supposed to leave? And the PIS Members told them to leave. That's what the professor said.]] [[It's a rift in the PiS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The doctor's profession is a beautiful profession. This is a mission. The problem of wage regulation in health care has existed for many, many years. It is the Government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who introduces a very courageous regulation of wages in the health service, regulation of health services. [[And that's why they're starving?]] Minister, tell me how much the residents' salaries were when the previous coalition ruled. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very nice. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u254	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's reckoning time. You've been right and fair for two years now. You promised during the campaign that you would listen to Poles, but something happened to your hearing. Suddenly you're in trouble and you can't hear. You do not hear doctors resident, the future of medicine in Poland. They treat us and our children, although often we do not realize that the attending doctor is a resident doctor working for PLN 3200?3600 gross. You're leaking false information to the media. How embarrassing are you? In the past, a resident doctor could immediately take an extra job and earn money as part of an emergency room or a specialist clinic. And now he's got no other choice but to work 300, 400 hours a month. Isn't that supposed to scare you? Strange smiles I see on your faces. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u256	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska is not here. Please, Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice. And neither is your envoy. In that case, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are very often referring to historical policy, so I will refer to historical policy, expressing my appreciation for the extremely worthy attitude of our guests, residents, the solidarity attitude that was in 1980 and 1981, when different groups fought to make the others also better. You really are expressing true solidarity with your attitude today. Not the solidarity of Peter Duda, present, which is the construction of the PiS, because if it were only your interests, you would have gone on top of the emergency raise that the Minister would have given you. However, you are fighting for the whole society, also this part of PiS-owska, because you want better for them too. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we defeated the commune together and today, thanks to you, society will also defeat this PiS commune. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u258	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u259	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, As we have heard, the remuneration of doctors resident for 9 years has been constant and closes within the limit of PLN 3200.3600 gross. They are often in their 30's, who, in doing this particular and responsible profession of doctor, expand their knowledge and experience in order to better serve society. Their low salary, in my opinion, makes it possible for them to grow, to start families, to have a stable credit rating or to have a decent rest, to make up after hours of work and actually do so. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: Will the government's systematic increase in healthcare expenditure improve this difficult financial situation of resident doctors and when can this happen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u260	Thank you very much. Our debate is attended by young people from Mickiewicz High School from Częstochowa, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] And Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u261	Minister, do you really not see the extreme desperation of resident doctors in the fight for dignity not only doctors, but above all patients? How heartless and blind do you have to be to not see it? Minister, young doctors residents have been waiting two years to meet with the Prime Minister and talk about their problems. How do you feel when you are so arrogantly deceiving and manipulating exhausted and mentally tired and desperate for days of starvation doctors residents? Aren't you ashamed to treat these people like this? Prime Minister, how can you not be ashamed of these young, capable, ambitious people calling for help from the weaker? After all, the whole health system will be based on these people for the next 40 years. These people will be based on all future and present hospitals, clinics and offices, the whole system. Perhaps these doctors will treat your loved ones, your children, your grandchildren. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, if the Prime Minister is proposing that a team be formed to resolve the problem of residents within two months, then why... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... The Ministry of Health? Let's untie them, and you resign. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Young doctors have been on hunger strike since October 2. Not since yesterday, like you said, so you're lying. Just as you're lying, like government national television, which removed comments from young doctors, residents and interns, because according to the government's TVP Info, young doctors litter public discussion. While in Poland there is a hunger strike aimed primarily at shortening queues, increasing the financing of health care and improving the pay and working conditions of young doctors, government national television makes a probe that exceeds all limits of manipulation. You're pissing, lying, and doing it in a very cynical and even more disgusting way. And now you have one goal ahead of you: you want to direct dislike of people, Poles, protesting young doctors. Only at the end of your lies is a man, there is a patient and there is an increasing queue to the doctor - the doctor you are telling today: let him go abroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your patients won't forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u264	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! The claims of resident doctors are due to their concern for Polish health care, which, of course, is not working well, and I think it has always been. Their wages also leave much to be desired. I have therefore a question to the Minister: Is it true that since 2009 the remuneration of resident doctors has not been raised and that only the Government of Law and Justice has leaned on this problem and proposed solutions? [[It's a lie.]] And Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, who makes the biggest robbery, was the Minister of Health in 2011 and 2015 in the Government of the Civic Platform. [[2 years.]] What did he do then? Did he not see the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u266	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Residents! The average age of a specialist doctor in Poland is 55 years. The young ones are leaving. Instead of stopping them, the PIS Members say, "Let them go." And residents have to run from hospital to hospital, from clinic to clinic to clinic, to maintain themselves. They have a responsibility like doctors who have been working for many years, and salaries get hungry. In Germany, $1,000. There are 4.1 doctors in the Czech Republic, 3.7 in the Czech Republic, and 2.2 doctors in the Czech Republic are in the Czech Republic. Citizens and citizens. Hence, every now and then, we hear about the deaths of doctors in the course of a dozen hours on duty. Do the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health still feel that nothing has happened? Poles, PiS thinks nothing happened. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u268	Thank you. Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u269	Dear Doctors of Residents! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote at the beginning the words of one of the members of the health department responsible for health care, Minister Szczurek-Żelazko. Listen, residents: I would like to stress that the salary for the residency is not a salary for the job. What are you doing? 200, 250, 300 hours a month you run to the E.R., hospital rescue unit, in a minute for Christmas help, but this isn't a job. The Minister believes that the salary for the residency is not a salary for the job. It is you today who take responsibility because you will work in your profession 30, 40 years, and your desperation involves not only your profession or salary increase - this is a fight for a Polish patient. They'll charge you for 30, 40 years for the results. Today, when you make these demands, the Minister says: the expectations of residents are shocking, and Mr Bochenek [[♪ The bell ♪]] He says it's a historic raise. This is proof of arrogance, shoes and pride. We're all gonna be responsible for this. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u270	Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Residents, stay. Don't go anywhere. You need Poland and Poles. [[Applause]] [[It's a split.]] [[That's what the PiS said.]] No one in Poland is chasing you away, not chasing you away. We respect your right to vote. [[That's what your messenger said. He's making residents leave.]] We want to help you. Evidence? There you go. In this budget, there is PLN 4.3 billion more in this year's budget for health care. Let Poland hear it. [[Applause]] What have you been doing for eight years? What have you been doing for eight years? [[Let's get them out of here.]] [[And the salary? $3.5 billion in wages?]] 81 million more for residency - including budget. Let Poland hear it. [[Applause]] We want to talk to you. You are well-educated Poles. Poland needs good doctors, good engineers, good teachers. [[But that didn't sound right.]] You are in a group of very needed people in Poland. [[Then why are you telling them to leave?]] We respect your opinion, your voice, and we really want to help you. We respect your right to talk. Take these conversations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure we can reach a good consensus. [[Respect them, not just their work.]] A lot of children are born in Poland. You're needed by the youngest children. You doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u272	Thank you, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u273	With your mission, with your conviction, with your values... [[Peterovich's case...]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u274	Your time is up, sir. Thank you very much. [[Maybe it's worth apologizing for those words.]] We cordially welcome a group of residents of Grabno County, Wojnicz Municipality, from Małopolska Voivodeship listening to our debate. [[Applause]] Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Residents! Cape Hope in Wrocław is a cross-regional centre of children's oncology. He's got 2,000 kids fighting for their lives. He's doing 1,000 transplants a year. I'm honored to run this downtown. I've got 15 residents on board who are joining on strike doctors. Without them, proper care is not possible. The resident's doctor for 4th and 5th year of residency is a very efficient and very needed doctor. We have a huge generation gap. Minister, will you allow such a centre that provides services throughout Poland to fall due to the lack of doctors? Those 15 are also needed. You're saying the budget is fantastic. Why don't you get that money and give it to the doctors so they can live a decent life? They just come in the morning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To Cape Verde, falling on the nose, after three other jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u276	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday's day will be history as the day on which the enchantment of reality by Law and Justice ended. This is the day that stopped the propaganda machine, and the state became hostages to this propaganda, the propaganda of success. You no longer have, first of all, the right to speak... After 2 years of government, you have no right to throw anything on the shoulders of the previous government. This is your responsibility right now. Secondly, your vision of the country with milk and honey has given these young residents the courage to say, okay, this is the moment we test you. This was done by young, educated, courageous people, because they do not believe in the enchantment of reality, they do not allow the emotions told by other fairy tales to be silenced and they did not fall for any more lies. And the hardest thing for you right now is that the care of residents, their responsibility and demands, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a concern. It's all about them, but it's real concern for the future of all of us and brave thinking about her. And you didn't expect this argument, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u278	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u279	...and you don't have any more lies prepared for it... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u280	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u281	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Residents, we're with you. You're not the Prime Minister who promised to talk to you. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] There's no idea in this room today, no proposal, and it was worth talking about overnight. And don't tell me you're giving $8 billion. It's the Poles who pay for their work... [[A contribution.]] ...a contribution to the National Health Fund. This isn't your budget money. You're just sharing them. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Voices from the hall: Where were yours?]] There's no offer. What's changed? I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance. I had the pleasure of being her president. The money -- the money you're talking about -- as it was in the budget, it's in it. How much can you increase that? 2%. 2% And don't talk about $3 billion... [[But there's more, you're lying. You can't count.]] [[Piotrovich's protector. Who's lying here?]] How much? 2% ? Count it, sir. We are ashamed of Mrs Hrynkiewicz in this Chamber. We don't tell you to leave. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll be with you. We'll be looking for that money. We've got offers. If you want to leave, you can leave. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u282	Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! No one will know how you taste until you're broken. [[You're about to pay the fine.]] Minister, something's broken. It was supposed to be so beautiful, it's so beautiful, and everyone's protesting and everybody's solidarity with the residents... [[Not all of them.]] ...also the parliament of seniors, also seniors, 9 million Polish seniors. The declaration they have adopted calls for increased funding for the universal healthcare system. This is also the request of residents. Ladies and gentlemen! If it's so beautiful, what happens to geriatric care? Minister, where are the standards? Where is care for people with Alzheimer's disease and dementia? [[Voice from the O.R.: Hospital.]] Where's the geriatrics in the hospital network? Why doesn't 28 troops know what's going to happen to them right now? These are all questions that you must answer to also Polish seniors, because you do not care about seniors, do not care about the elderly, and this guarantees the constitution. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u284	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u285	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Rzońc from this place assured that young doctors, residents were needed by PiS, and he called on them not to leave because they needed Poland not to leave and sit down to talk. But you know what the saddest part is, sir? They don't want to talk to you. They don't believe you. They think you guys are faking the dialogue, and yesterday there was this appearance, this promise... [[How do you know that?]] Because I talked, I was upstairs at the gallery talking to these people. [[I'm gonna go ask.]] Please. Go over there. And you will hear what is the most bitter truth about what you are doing. You're mimicking... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...conversations, you propose more committees, more committees to drown the problem. Mr Rzoniec spoke about PLN 4.5 billion for health care, for health care, you spoke about 80 million for the pension fund for residents. And what's the effect? [[Mr. Marshal, one time. I have to answer him.]] These are beautiful, huge numbers. What's behind this? The proposal, a real proposal to raise less than 100 PLN for the person who makes 2200 today and to support his family, especially when he's in a non-family town, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's got to be 32 hours working all the time. Sit down for serious conversations with these people... [[And for eight years, he had to hold on, too.]] ...who deserve a serious debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u286	Thank you. And please take the floor of the representative of Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Colleagues up there, upstairs, at the gallery! Look at this empty chair. This is a symbol of how this government deals with your affairs. The empty seat of the Prime Minister, the lonely Minister Radziwiłł, [[Applause]] Empty government benches - that's the point of what we're dealing with today. Prime Minister, where are you? In the silence of the NPRM, do you have a fear of watching this debate? You're gonna have to get out of this KPRM, you're gonna have to deal with this case, don't hide. You have Minister Radziwiłł, who goes out on the stand and says: The hunger protest has been going on since yesterday. Have you ever seen more arrogance? Have you ever seen a minister show such a lack of empathy for the starving? And finally you have Mrs Hrynkiewicz, who, with full arrogance, goes out into the platform and says, "Let them go, let them go." This is the symbolism of the rule of law and justice... [[Not from the platform.]] ...empathy for people... [[She wasn't at the podium.]] ...and how you treat people, starving people. Now, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Prime Minister... [[Don't lie to me, hypocrite.]] ...you're listening to this somewhere, I'm sure of it. Firstly, an urgent meeting of the government on this matter and, finally, a clear decision of the government - that is what we expect of you immediately. Secondly, the transfer of PLN 135 million from the Labour Fund in order to make 2017 [[Applause]] equalize the salaries of residents. Thirdly, as you have transferred 800 million PLN to this Kurski TVPiS reptile this year, we expect in 2018 to guarantee 800 million PLN in the Labour Fund in order to double the salaries of residents. This is an expectation towards your government. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] Fourthly, tomorrow is the Health Committee's exit meeting. Prime Minister, we're not gonna let this go. Tomorrow at hours. Ten, I'll see you at the hospital. And the Prime Minister is to be there with us. It can't be like today - an empty chair. We have nothing left to talk about with Minister Radziwill. We have no expectations of Minister Radziwill. The Prime Minister is expecting the residents at the hospital tomorrow. I called and invited the president's office. Enough of your ignoring this problem. [[Applause]] We're meeting at the resident's tomorrow. [[Radziwił to resign.]] Minister Radziwiłł sits in a chair in this empty government bench. Minister, your colleagues in the medical court have stopped listening to you, your colleagues in the parliamentary club have stopped listening to you, your government has stopped listening to you. You don't have anything to say about this anymore. This is the worst day of shame you've ever given Polish health service today, that you're alone in all this like a finger. You're completely helpless. Speaking to the Prime Minister, I will conclude by quoting Dr. Łukasz Jankowski's words for one time. This is a quote from the speech after yesterday's meeting: the Prime Minister talks about dialogue and we have heard an ultimatum. Either you join the team and cancel the protest, or the Prime Minister will never see you again. That's the whole definition of government's approach to this protest, to starving people. So, Prime Minister, I'm telling you, looking you in the eye, because I know you're watching this debate hidden somewhere. You're gonna go out to those residents. You're gonna talk to them and you're gonna give them raises because they deserve it. Don't hide. You're the Prime Minister of the Government. You're the Prime Minister of the government so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u288	Mr Bogdan Rzońc, as corrected. [[In what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u289	In normal mode. [[What corrigendum?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just got off the phone... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u290	Statement in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u291	Mr. Marshal, I want to correct. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u292	Keep your emotions under control, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just got back from the gallery, talked to your residents. Mr Protasiewicz lied. [[Countries?]] You want to talk. They told me they wanted to keep talking, talk to the government, talk about things about them. And Mrs. Skowronska was there for herself... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Talk to me.]] ...take a picture with them, and you refused to take that picture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Where's the corrigendum?]] [[May I? May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u294	No, we're not going back to the debate. [[Like one, like the other.]] Okay, here you go. Please, Mr Protasiewicz. [[Equal rights.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u295	Thank you very much. Yes, on one condition, sir, that these will be conversations. However, they have the impression, and I have heard exactly that this debate, as well as yesterday's talks, make no sense because they hear exactly the same. They do not hear a serious proposal to solve the problem, but either blackmail or spells about the great amounts that are spent on health care, but that there is nothing for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u296	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kosiniak-Kamish rightly pointed out that these were not basically questions, and in any case the vast majority of them were not questions, only rhetorical displays... [[This is a debate. These aren't questions.]] ...it was a philippines, and most of all, I would say, a large, large portion of hate speech. It wasn't a good debate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You don't know what hate speech is.]] [[That's a great answer.]] [[Let them go, it was a hate speech.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few questions I would like to answer here. First of all, the question of whether there are raises or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that some of you are coming in here, coming out, not all of you have heard what I said. I repeat once again: there are increases spread over time, time starts on July 1st, in 4 years it will increase about 2 000. PLN for each resident. [[Voice from the hall: Promises.]] No promises, they're already starting. As for the priority specialties, which are 20 - by the way, I would like to say, because there was a question, that also in dentistry, this is childhood dentistry and orthodontics - these will be increases in the near future, i.e.. practically from 1 December, from 1300 to 1450 PLN. However, we cannot afford to raise or earn a salary immediately, as the residents expect, at a minimum of PLN 6400 at the expense of patients. That's not possible. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What do you mean, at the expense of patients?]] [[What's the cost of patients?]] Ladies and gentlemen, as for the number of residents, because that was a lot of questions, I just wanted to say... [[Jasinski has a 7,000 day's pay.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...two such comparisons. Ladies and gentlemen, the fall sessions are the biggest sessions when residents are distributed or residents are separated. [[Exactly.]] From 2012 to 2015 it is 2500, 2464, 2500. Then you were Minister Arłukowicz. When I'm 4037, 4097. These are numbers that don't lie. In specialties we are most interested in: general surgery, I will not read everyone, ladies and gentlemen, 15, 168, 16, 95, 16, 63, 20. [[The residents are starving.]] These are assignments for Minister Arłukowicz. At the moment: 63, 201, 201, 222. There's a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions about the increase in expenditure. We planned this. In the multiannual financial plan, it is very clear: there will be gradual growth expenditure on health care. [[What about the 2018 budget?]] We planned in the bill that the government is working on, 6% in 2025. [[How much is in the budget?]] We're discussing details. This increase has started since 2018. [[How much?]] Next year it will be PLN 92 billion for health. That's the number we've never achieved. [[But thanks to you, or thanks to the fee? That's a contribution.]] The number of doctors, the number of residents and the increase, ladies and gentlemen, these are new things. [[And you didn't increase your contributions?]] We increase recruitment, increase college recruitment, increase the number of residents and raises follow, as I said, right now. [[You have no control over this.]] As regards the overall amounts spent on increases, because on this subject too you discussed a lot, I would remind you that next year it will be PLN 1179 million, which we spend on residents and trainees, by PLN 150 million more than this year. With regard to the effects of the increases, which cover all health professionals, next year, please countries, this is by PLN 114 million more, in the following year - 195, then - 326, and in 2021 - nearly PLN half a billion for increases. They're concrete, they're numbers, they're not intentions. [[What about the interns?]] Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the situation of trainees, it was a question of what this dialogue looks like. [[Let's get them out of here.]] How many times we've met and how we've met, I've already informed. But there was nothing here about what happened last night. Interns or representatives of trainees, residents refused to participate in the Social Dialogue Council, where they were discussed. [[They've only been on strike since yesterday.]] Unfortunately, so far, they have also refused to respond positively to the invitation of the Prime Minister to work together to remedy the situation. [[What do you mean they said no?]] [[They've got their job already.]] [[It's your duty to work this out.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I have already talked about these reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was controlled by the Ministry of Health. I receive reports, which relate primarily to the time when Minister Arłukowicz was Minister of Health. [[Talk about starving people.]] [[Voice from the room: Tell me what you did.]] [[What plan?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to dedicate one of these reports to Minister Arłukowicz. [[Plan.]] This is a summary of the training of medical personnel in 2013 and 2015 that is, when you were Minister of Health. [[What's your plan?]] One thing comes from him: you did nothing to improve the situation. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Don't yell over there.]] You restricted residences, didn't increase admissions to medical school, misdivided residency. [[But tell me, man, about what you did. You've been in charge for two years.]] Today you're posing as a friend of the residents, and you're the one who saw the beer we're all drinking today. [[You're not talking to me. You're talking to them.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the protesting resident doctors for a reasonable dialogue. Yesterday's meeting with Prime Minister Beata Szydło is an example of goodwill and commitment from both sides, but above all from the government. [[Especially now that the Prime Minister isn't in the courtroom. Where's the good will?]] Our proposal to work together to improve health care is still valid. Ladies and gentlemen, please finish your protest and let's sit down to work together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u298	Mr Arłukowicz, I allow you, even though you are interfering with shouting all the time. I appeal to you to modify your... [[Because you can't react to something like that.]] Please, Mr Arłukowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u299	Mr. Marshal, I have to correct this, because Mr. Minister Radziwill's health is still wrong. You say the residents refused to work with the Prime Minister. They have their job, and they want to do it, it's your job, and you haven't done what you're supposed to do. You're the one who let people starve for 10 days. [[Say something about yourself.]] And you explain yourself in the Seym, quoting the results of the NIK five years ago. Minister, what's your plan? Contacts. Do you have anything specific for these people? It's your duty to see them, not let them starve. And just so you know, the comparisons you've been doing here all along, there's one thing I want to say to you. Nobody starved in 2007 and these people are starving on the tenth day. And you belong with them. And Minister, get to work, get to work. [[Applause]] [[Eleven days.]] [[Bravo!]] [[Eleven.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u300	Thank you very much. In that case, this statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The public is empathetic to the very difficult situation of resident doctors whose wages are so low that they must protest in the form of a hunger strike. In the first phase of the hunger strike, their wage demands were trumped. Their salary was reported to be about 2,000. zł. It was not reported whether it was a gross or a net remuneration. Later, further demands were made for health expenditure of 6% GDP. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of Health with questions. Did the protesters formally make their demands or their disbelievers? How are the individual claims made by resident doctors? What are the actual gross salaries of resident doctors? It's the range from the lowest to the highest. Who does this salary depend on? Are directors of health care units employing resident doctors themselves determining the amount of remuneration, or are they limited by general rules? Does the remuneration of resident doctors vary according to the Polish region? Are there voivodships where the remuneration of residents is significantly lower than the average salary of residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u302	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 02 hours 13 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal (prints 1881 and 1898). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, we discussed the bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. Four applications were accepted positively by the committee and the others rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u304	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, Parliamentary Printing No 1898. The draft law responds to the socially motivated need to redress the pensioners and the mining rencistos, who, from 1 January 2012, due to the deteriorating situation of mining companies, have been declared entitled to the coal depot provided for in the internal regulations. These decisions were taken either unilaterally by the employer's termination of collective agreements guaranteeing this right or by agreement of both parties during the Civil Platform and PSL governments. This was the result of pressure from the management boards of mining companies, which in a coal crisis saw in these decisions the only possibility of seriously reducing the costs of mining units, and which, by mass decision to deprive mining pensioners of the right to a coal debt, left themselves an average salary of 120 000. PLN per month. It was an average that belonged to every president or often a member of the board of directors in the days of the Civic Platform. Thus, the Government of Law and Justice has taken the form of this kind of injustice in the treatment of the right to the coal debt of pensioners and miners, facing the victims of this unequal treatment, has come up with a proposal of one-off redress. The proposed solution is to pay a compensation contribution of 10 000 from the State budget. zł, paid once until the end of 2017 During the reading of the draft law at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, Members of the Law and Justice made four substantive amendments, including those of particular importance to former miners, as they will contribute to increasing the number of persons to be covered by this law. In addition, the proposed amendments will make the law applicable to persons entitled to mining companies in which, on the basis of collective agreements, agreements and other regulations in force in a mining undertaking, the right to free coal was granted by employers to pensioners and subsequently received by termination, whether by partial or total solution, unilateral or by agreement of the parties to collective agreements, agreements and other regulations. The amendment adopted by the Commission is also an important amendment which provides for an extension of the deadline for the submission of an application for compensation to the competent paying undertaking to be extended to 3 weeks. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the regulations contained in Seym Printing No. 1898 and calls on the High Sejm to support the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u306	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present my position on the report of the Energy and Treasury Commission on the Government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, prints No 1881 and 1898. Yes, it is true that in 2015 due to the difficult economic situation of coal companies, the equivalent was suspended. It is true that then, under the rule of the Civic Platform, for 10 months of government, this equivalent was suspended, but it is also true that for 24 months the Government of Law and Justice has done nothing about it. He continued to suspend, ba, in 2017 the payment of the money equivalent of the Deputy, which had so far been implemented without problems in Tauron Extraction. That is the truth today about the context of suspension, the loss of this equivalent. Back to the report on the project that we discussed late last night, I wanted to draw attention to one thing, because I said here earlier, the day before, at first reading, that the Civic Platform would make amendments to this project, which are to give this project a human face, to take the miners of pensioners and their families seriously. And that's what we did when we were working on this project on the committee. Firstly, we wanted to extend the group of people to whom this equivalent belongs, to individuals, to families who also lost their equivalent due to the difficult economic situation of their establishments. I'm talking about employees of PRG ROW Hawk, PRG ROW Rybnik, PRG Mysłowice, Sosnowiec, Gliwice. I'm also talking about the glass company in Bytom. There was also a difficult economic situation. And then these miners, the directors of these factories and the trade unions were all making these deals together. This is a group of about 10,000. persons. We introduced them to this project. All the members of the coalition in charge of this project rejected this amendment. We have tabled a second amendment, in our opinion, which improves the human face of this law and respects the work of miners, their families, pensioners and pensioners, in order to give them the opportunity to choose. It is about the possibility of reaching for this equivalent in perhaps a good single payout formula of 10,000. zł for those retired miners and their families who agree to it, who today want to take these funds who agree to this equivalent, because they are sick, have a terrible economic situation or just say that their days are somehow numbered. In this amendment, we wanted to expand it, give the choice also to those who think it's 10,000. zł is 10,000. silverware, so that they lose their equivalent, so that they can continue to take the equivalent paid by the Treasury in the following years. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected. We have also introduced the third amendment, which was intended to move the deadline for submitting these proposals, in some way with dignity and respect for those who have to run quickly, efficiently to the mining plants, to the plants paying them this equivalent. We thought 235 376 people had the right to bring this proposal with dignity. We wanted to postpone this deadline until 20 December this year, so that this application could be submitted on time by sick people who are in hospitals that have gone away, widows, orphans. No, I'm afraid not. This claim was rejected. Once again, it turns out that the Government of Law and Justice divides pensioners' miners into those who will receive equivalent from liquidated mines for the rest of their lives from the state budget, and those of active mines that are deprived of it. For $10,000. Silverware - not 10 days from now, but 21 days from now, according to the PiS amendment, these people will lose the equivalent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform, Mr. Marshal, introduces this project into this report...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u308	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u309	...correcting not only the committee to lean over them, so that the entire High House has the right to be aware of this...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u310	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u311	...what we propose and what the government has prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u312	Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present the club's position on the committee's report on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, print No 1898. It is known that the equivalent has been suspended in recent PO-PSL governments. And now the question is, why was he suspended? I just heard here that there was a difficult situation for mining plants. It should be said why the situation was difficult. However, if the Members of the PO-PSL do not guess, I will tell them why. It was difficult because it was a lack of rational economic policy with a deposit, resulting in the inefficiency of many workplaces. The difficult situation was because it was invested in processing plants for foreign capital, that there were orders for outsourcing companies. It's about billions of costs for mining companies. It was a difficult situation because dozens of paid audits were commissioned, which were very expensive for mining plants. PRG was also mentioned before. The situation has been difficult since 1994. PRG is already history at this point, because many people have been transferred from PRG to private companies that disarmed the PRG with all the power of this company, mining companies, because that's what we're talking about. This began in 1994, i.e. in the rule of the group, which was an earlier counterpart of the Civic Platform. I do not understand one thing that representatives of the Civic Platform now want to give choices to mining pensioners, not only to mining pensioners, but also to give no choice to mining workers. They did not give a choice, in short, by presenting annexes to employment contracts with a three-month procedure for signing. If this annex had not been signed, this would have been equivalent to the exemption from work in the mining company concerned. The annex concerned precisely this deprivation of the miner's choice, the deprivation of the working miner's active mining deputy. That's enough, now $12,000. As a result of these documents, which were presented in 2014, in 2015, there were resolutions of the boards of various companies, as well as Katowice Holding Węglowy, cannot seek this compensation for these failures of the PO-PSL, cannot seek these 10 thousand. because of these actions. And it's not like they're silverware, it's compensation. That's the way to deal with it. And now it's not enough to say that retired miners take silver, it's insulting not only miners, but also entire mining families. My phone has been ringing for practically a few days, I get emails, text messages, there are different forms of communication that people just want to take advantage of this benefit, with compensation and it's no different. That's not good enough. The extension of the deadline by Members of the Civic Platform was in the first version - none of this group will say so from this speaker - on 31 December 2017. And that's in writing. The committee presented such a document, and only later was there a verbal correction of 20. What do the Platform Members think if we have to make a payment by the end of this year and they want to postpone the deadline for submitting proposals by 31 December, then by 20 December? So, what, people are supposed to stand on Christmas day instead of creating a pre-Christmas home environment, and they're supposed to apply, and the employees are supposed to be there on Saturdays and Sundays? That's not good enough. It is about extending the deadline - that is also part of my amendment - to 21 days from the submission of proposals. I was making sure at the company that was gonna handle this. That's 190,000. people will be served by the Company of Restructuring of Mine. I spoke to the representatives of this company and they said that 21 days plus 7 days of verification is enough for families to be provided. There will be 15 open points, there will be extra people employed, there will be a wide information campaign. I am still appealing to the Minister here at this point, and I ask that it be possible to print a request for compensation from the Internet. These are important things. Now, one more question. If this project is so wrong, then why did all the Members vote unanimously here? If he's so bad, why is he so good? That's where the question should be asked. The Kukiz Club15 supports the proposal, along with the amendments, in its entirety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] notified by Kukiz.15 and PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u314	Thank you very much. I would like to cordially welcome those listening to our debate of the visitors from the Primary School to them. John Paul II in Stoczno, from the Volunteer Fire and Youth Fire Team in Korszów. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on behalf of the club on the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. As I said in my first reading, two points are crucial for us. The first point is the recognition of acquired rights, and the second point is equal status of all employees. As you know, only some people -- maybe 79,000. - she's taken over by the U.S.S. In view of the above, this government initiative, which has entered the Sejm, at least partially compensates for the loss of carbon allowances and for those 235 000. people are certainly positive support, which I think - because thanks to conversations or exchanges of correspondence in recent days or hours I know - these mining families are interested. It should also be said that the amendments which, on the one hand, extend the scope of persons entitled to use this law, even if the former employees of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa or Tauron Wyborcza i Bogdanka, or the second amendment already mentioned here, related to the extension of the deadline for submitting applications to 21 days, certainly deserve recognition, support. I hope that this information campaign will be conducted in such a way that everyone in this law that the law gives them can benefit from it. On the other hand, it must also be made very clear that we still do not know the answer to a few things. The range of persons has been extended, but the number of persons covered by this law has not changed. The funds secured and included in this law - I believe there will be a revised budget - will not change: PLN 2350 million. In view of the above, of course, there is a fundamental question, what will happen if it is confirmed that according to the Industrial Development Agency, which was defined at the end of 2014, we have not 235 thousand eligible persons, as stated in the Act, only 253,5 thousand, i.e. more than 18 thousand. more than we have on the bill. What will happen if everyone makes the appropriate proposals and runs out of funds in the state budget to pay these benefits? I asked that question at the committee meeting. Of course, this is a normal rule that we should first assess the group that is covered by the service and then secure the funds for this group. We've got a dead end that's 10,000. zł, and on the other hand we also know that this limit, which is entered in the Act, cannot be exceeded in any way. Another element that raises some doubts. To be honest, Minister, I do not understand why these people who have been going through a programme that the Government of Law and Justice continues, because I have listened to many of the Minister's speeches and you have not been cut off from those agreements that were concluded at the turn of 2014 and 2015, and Minister Kowalczyk was probably one of the few ministers who was in the previous government and passed, and for many months he cooperated with the Minister... Why didn't you leave behind the law of those who were going through, to be honest, implementing the restructuring program? Each of us knows the situation. I also spent a few days in the office of the Silesian Voivodeship, the provincial office, and I learned a little about this situation. I think it's a little inhuman, because, as we look at from the point of view of the state budget, it's a huge amount of money when it comes to the whole, but from the point of view of these people who are left out, it's not that big for the budget. Therefore, I regret that these persons were not covered by this service. In conclusion, first of all, I declare that, of course, our club will support this bill. But I must also ask the Minister whether there is any further adjustment in this regard, even if those who, as a result of the agreements made by Katowice Holding Węglowy, have no chance of doing so, or none, as was said at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u316	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think acquired rights should be respected. And it's a good thing we're going back to the subject that once was, so to speak, suspended in the vacuum because of the difficult budgetary situation. On the other hand, the debate itself and the amendments that were tabled concerned the procedure, because we have doubts. We have doubts whether this will be possible at such a rapid pace, because the pace is express - yesterday's first reading, today we are going to vote. The point is not to make a mistake because it's important. The Minister said the work had been going on for a long time. But this is such a sudden outburst, and today's doubts that have appeared are coming from here. We will vote in favour of this project. I'm just afraid, because the miners themselves are already questioning a number of issues, solutions that have been put in there, whether or not it will cause some kind of conflict. The money came out, and suddenly the money came out because the Minister said so. The finance minister said we give them to the miners. We in the Polish People's Party would like to see this well-being, which we have heard here on Tuesday, that we have money in abundance everywhere, will be better everywhere, will also include other social or professional groups. This group, I think, is a group of pensioners and pensioners. Today they are experiencing drama - I talked about it in my first speech here in this room - when the price of coal is 1000 PLN. A pensioner who has PLN 850, that's how much pension does this man get where he's gonna buy that coal for how much? I'm asking you where, because today we're running out of coal. He's almost unattainable to pensioners. So don't you think about it - and this is our proposal, the Polish People's Party - to give to those who have the lowest benefits, the lowest pensions, the equivalent for 2 tons of coal. I think that would be fair and fair. We'd help these people. Another thing is the support of pensioners and pensioners. That's what I've been talking about. Well, the government promises 500+ for pensioners. These benefits are growing all the time, and they can never exceed 1000 PLN. They say there's already 1000 zlotys, but look at the value of inflation this year and how it bothers people. The 500+ that's being paid somewhere has been consummated a long time ago, and there's no sign of it. We propose 500+ for pensioners, which the government has been promising since spring this year. We reported one project to make it 500 zlotys. Yeah, you rejected him. Right now you're saying that we ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies this year, ladies next year, maybe next fall next year. We have submitted our proposal for a permanent allowance with the lowest pensions to introduce it. If there's money, what's in the way? If the economy is developing, and not temporarily, because Prime Minister Morawiecki had such long-term visions that it would go so beautifully up, let us give these people, because it is needed at the moment. Let's not promise it's gonna be a year from now, two years from now, 'cause maybe it's gonna be hard to survive this winter. So you have to look more closely. Like they used to say that not everyone took advantage of this good development that was, from this green island, that it got out of hand, so right now I don't see the difference. Some are still preferred, administration, officials, high officials are preferred, several, several dozen, several tens of thousands of PLN increase, checks are paid, millions of earnings are paid and, on the other hand, 850 PLN. Well, a little pity and that kind of human look. If we even cut it a little bit upstairs, it would be enough for those 500+s for pensioners and pensioners, because that would also be in the range of PLN 2.5 billion. And I think people, many families, would give us the opportunity to survive the winter. We will support this project of course, because we must, as my predecessor said, correct these errors, simply go back to what was once suspended, but it was not a mistake, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that was the financial situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u318	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan gave her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a bill, there's hard numbers. We've got about 235,000. the beneficiaries of the Act, 2350 million registered in this Act. Well, we also have such an uncertain situation that until this law becomes applicable, it can happen in some mining companies that collective agreements will be pronounced. Can this really be the case? And if it does, if the number of beneficiaries increases, how will you deal with these numbers, very hard-lined in the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u320	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u321	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment in Article. 2 Members of the Law and Justice stated that it would also allow pensioners from Tauron Extraction and the Bogdanka mine to be covered by this law. Minister, I have questions. Does this mean that the boards of these companies, i.e. the Tauron Extraction and the Bogdanka mine, have already engaged in discussions with the social side in order to effectively, permanently denounce the mining pensioners of these companies' deputies? If so, at what stage are these conversations? Will this amount of PLN 2.5 billion allocated to this law allow for payment, to cover this compensation for these groups of pensioners and what are the groups in the case of Tauron and what in the case of Bogdanka? Next question: Does the entry into force of this law close the way to further proceding the citizens' law, under which more than 120 thousand signed. the persons whose first reading took place in June 2016, which assumed to take over the payment of the equivalent for the coal depot by the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u322	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Minister, to save yourself the time you need to fly around the offices... As we know, not everyone has a computer, then he does things himself, but those who have computers would like to apply for compensation on the Internet. Will it be possible to submit them by electronic means? Because I didn't read it in the intel. And from this place as a Member of the sea, from Koszalin soil I would like to greet you with mining in Silesia. God bless you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u325	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, that's what I was going to say: maybe later than never. This course of action is correct. We just set it, steered it, you realized it. But I wanted to ask about the costs in general, because two years ago, whether three years ago it came to reform mining in a slightly different economic situation, where the price of coal, 1 t of coal was about $40 on stock exchanges, and now we have 80. We've had the transformation of unprofitable companies. You're cutting costs right now. You received almost 8 billion from the state budget by 2018 for liquidation. Now you're reaching for an extra of almost 2.5 billion to change the budget again, to the pockets of citizens, taxpayers. Do you take into account the current economic situation and the continuing forecasts of the stabilisation of this, $80, the price of coal for the future, the reduction of budgetary flows in the context of these precisely planned 8 billion, in parallel with the reduction of costs in mining companies that we started 3 years ago and which, after 2 years of reflection, are you continuing now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u326	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, I wanted to thank you for this bill. The topic has been very important for the miners for years. It's sad that there's been a situation when, unfortunately, some people didn't get that carbon debt. I have a question for the Minister: How many people are covered by this bill? Second question: Who and when caused the chaos in coal sales? And the third question, also quite important: Are trade unionists or pensioners a party to the discussion on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u328	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u329	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, of course this is an important project. The agreements must be kept, and there is no doubt about it. And I have a question about the employees of these companies that have become private. There are companies like this, they're doing great, they have pensioners, too. And the question is: Is this law fair in the sense that it also covers the employees of those companies who previously worked in state-owned enterprises, so to speak? The second thing, more so, I would say, is technical, but equally important for those who follow legislative processes. This project cannot be found on the RCL pages. I don't know if this is a deliberate procedure or a coincidence, but I'm asking for an explanation as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u330	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u331	Is it true, Minister, that during the reign of PO-PSL, when the possibility of obtaining or right to free coal was quite massively taken away from pensioners of mining companies, the remuneration granted to the governors of mining companies was around 120 thousand. A month's worth of zloty? Is it true that, at the time of the liquidation of coal sales, the heads of companies, referring to the bad economic and financial situation and the mining crisis, they did not implement corrective programmes in the mining industry at the same time, but - as the deputy prime minister in the PO-PSL government herself confirmed - at that time they were mainly engaged in food, drinking and smoking lullas, without being too concerned about the situation in the mining industry? One more question. Is it true, Minister, that only this government, the Law and Justice, has healed this situation strongly by earning profits in mining, which is the result of which today is the possibility of redressing mining pensioners and rencists? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u332	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am astonished to hear the peans concerning, let's face it, the execution at the expense of the taxpayer of certain economic events for which economic operators are responsible. I have serious doubts, apart from whether it was raised here, whether it is fair, because those who have coped in difficult times, are also doing well today, are not to exercise this power, I am talking about private companies that have undergone a deep restructuring process. But, Minister, we also have other industries that you oversee. There are also a number of different advantages there, in the light of the above, that the issue, e.g. The public company that this includes, you know what I'm talking about, is clearly acting in favour of the shareholders. Indeed, the State Treasury is a serious shareholder in this company, but there are also private shareholders. Taking off this burden, putting it on the shoulders of the state seems unfair to me, to put it mildly. The responsible economic operators should - maybe in the form of a loan, maybe in another form... But with greater concern, I would lean on the public pennies. And if the generous Antek from someone else's bag, then let it be all industries, let us remove the privileges of the state budget, and then indeed all industries will be able to say that they have been treated fairly. These privileges, which are some corset in the development or burden of the costs of a given company, are removed and transferred to the state budget, i.e., read, to all Poles. I have serious doubts, I know that the explanatory memorandum states that this is in line with European Union law, but you are negotiating with the European Commission whether you have negotiated these 8 billion public aid, and this is simply public aid to companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u334	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u335	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would ask you very much to introduce you, because some Members are more or less aware of what the issue of coal is, who can legally effectively terminate or suspend the collective agreement. Is that what the government does, corporate boards or the social side? If you could give us this situation under the letter of the law. Second question. We're talking about a suspension of the equivalent payments. I would ask the Minister to tell me how much for these 10 months of suspension of the equivalent, what was the amount? How much have they lost or saved up coal companies because they must have lost pensioners and pensioners. How much for these 24 months, please include those days in the operation of Law and Justice, how much have you saved as a government, and how much have the miners lost? Third question, Minister. Today we are struggling with this number, and it is still coming back - 235 376 people. I'd ask the Minister to tell me which companies the mines are from. If you are not in a position to give a literal statement now, please answer the second and first question in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u336	Thank you. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: As far as the civil law of the social side is concerned, will it be possible to approach it in the future, despite the current difficult situation from which mining has come out, but is not yet ready to address it? Is it possible that the citizens' law placed on the shelf will be taken into account? Here's another thing. I have a question. Is the Polish Mining Group, which produces energy coals, a price buffer for Europe? Are there higher prices in Europe, or are these prices, so to speak, reduced and the price of coal in our country is not as high as in the European markets? Here's another thing. Here we heard about 10 months of suspension of deputies. Was this period actually 10 months or was it much longer? Because here's a matter for discussion. Here's another thing. With regard to the project itself and the conclusions to be completed, is it possible to agree with the unions and to print in Silesian magazines, magazines or even trade unions magazines, together with the colportage, appropriate conclusions? The point is that people, but the seniors, who use these magazines, don't want to advertise specific titles... However, could it be possible for this law and its regulation to be annexed immediately after the entry into force of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is with great concern that I listen to this discussion about coal sales that the miners really wanted. I'm a little surprised, I'm just gonna say hypocritical, lying, some populism of the Civic Platform that uses slogans like human face, dignity, respect, respect for the miner. And how much in all this Gospel - 10,000. Silverware, six kings, so the total opposition knows the Gospel. Maybe the facts that talk about the concern that took place under the previous coalition, PO-PSL. These are facts that can't really be discussed with. We know that under the seat of Jastrzębska Coal Company, the police used smooth-bore weapons and gas. That's the concern. The former minister in the government, in the previous government, Bieńkowska, responsible - I will mark this - for economic matters, including mining, made it clear and clear about mining and summarized it in this way: the truth is that the owner, the Ministry of Economy, generally - and here I will not speak this expression, only his first letter because of my culture of the word - had the entire mining industry for the whole 7 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was money, and they were drinking, they were smoking, they were putting their people on. [[Applause]] You know how much they made. And then it fucked up. Darlings, you don't argue with facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u340	Thank you, Member. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Polaczek, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'd like to ask the Minister about three specific issues, perhaps not directly related to the construction of the bill itself, but... Firstly, I welcome the declarations made by the government during the parliamentary work related to the information campaign. Let me remind you that this law has a huge social resonance in the part of the Silesian voivodship. I think that, too, because of the number of persons entitled outside the region, this is of great importance. The question is that there is a certain repetition of the basic information from the government's information campaign after the adoption of this law. Secondly, given that they are constantly being raised, so to speak, various kinds of strange remarks, allegations concerning the scope of persons covered by this law, it would be good for the Minister to repeat more in terms of the public opinion how, in quotes, this number of two hundred and forty-seven thousand persons entitled to receive this benefit resulting from the loss of the coal debt. And thirdly, as during the legislative work, questions were asked about the fact - one might say - the historic rights of workers of former mining companies, if the Minister had been [[♪ The bell ♪]] I could also, possibly, ask you to repeat a few basic information relating to the evolution of these rights in relation to this category of persons employed in these companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u342	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u343	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for this debate today. I think that during the process, we get to the discussion on a question that is not simple, it is not easy, we know that it is complex in terms of the scope and diversity of issues relating to deputy and scope. I may begin with the last question of Minister Polak in the context of the number 235 thousand. People, from where, how she was selected. This will also correlate with what Mr Owl asked. This is the data... Maybe so, who acquired the authority and what happened, what's the key to the 235,000. People? Ladies and gentlemen, the powers to deputies are contained in the agreement between the social side and the employer. This is also the answer to one of the questions about who was the party or who is the party in its entirety. Mr. Gadowski asked whether the government is a party, no, the government is, has always been an indirect party as owner, whereas in fact the boards were a party in conversation with representatives of the social side. And now it was paid whether in nature or in cash to those who had the authority to deputize. It's been going on for years. Due to the fact that in the process after 1989 we had the process of dismembering mines, then these mines merged into companies, there was a mining environment like mining companies. The financial status of the market, the functioning of a company or any other company was the reason for this - because it is true - that the poverty of these companies standing at the limit of profitability or at the limit of the decision to declare bankruptcy was the reason for the termination. That's what I want to confirm. We can discuss how mining has been managed, but this is not where today's debate is devoted. There were decisions at the time, e.g. in the Katowice holding company, about suspension, in other places about termination, such as the Węglow Company, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Kazimierz-Juliusz, separately as a company in the Katowice holding company. I will also mention PRG employees. Ladies and gentlemen, to those who received this debt in kind, in cash, at some point by the decision of the companies in which they used to work, the notice was suspended, I ignore what was the mode here. The result was that suddenly after this decision to suspend the notice was not paid in kind, in cash of deputies. Those who have already retired after these decisions have no longer had this power, for in these decisions they have been deprived of the possibility of receiving a deputy. This is a very right question - Mr Karpiński is not here, I do not want to call him because I know he went to the committee meeting, but his question, among other things. it concerned - whether there is no public aid here. That's a very good question. Because we could, without actually exposing ourselves to the state aid charge... This is a dispute over a few thousand people who have retired, no longer having the power to deputize. We could have covered this law in order to be able to carry it out, only the group that received a debt, whether in cash or in kind, and was deprived of the company's decisions at a given point in time. That's the number of 235,000. Where did we get it? We have it from companies that made decisions because there's data about these people. That's where the size of 235,000 came from. That's the answer. And now can she increase? I don't think she's going to get any bigger, because this group can only get smaller. In this group, we have also included - what Mr Bańkowski asked - potentially workers, 6,500 of them, Bogdanka and Tauron. It is written: to the entry into force of the law. If the social side communicates with the employer or employer with the social side that they agree to use the provisions of this law... If there's no agreement... Now these conversations are going on. Before that, Tauron considered suspending them because he knew that the bill was being processed. The negotiations are currently ongoing in these two entities and these 6.5 thousand. is included in the 235 thousand. So this number can only decrease. This is an explanation of how we got 235 grand. If Mr Polakzek permits, I will leave the campaign matter to the end. The question, ladies and gentlemen, of this diversity. Where did it come from, and why didn't we in the committee support the proposal - abstracting from what it was called, perhaps without these adjectives - about the introduction by the State from the Platform of enlargement of this formula so that everyone could move on to this ZUS formula? Yeah, that's right. This is where Mr Karpiński touched the issue, rightly. Notice that, in order to be able, in some way, to give back the rights due during the crisis taken away from pensioners in these companies, we cannot today open our offer to everyone in this law. That's why we narrowed her down to it, offering her this one-time paycheck. Hence this statement and the will to waive further powers. If someone benefits from this compensation, 10,000, the benefits we are talking about - that's why we called it that - it would be irrational, please, because the budget actually participates in this so that we allow us to acquire a right of up to 10,000. compensation, and then still be able to benefit from the system related to the deputy. It would be unwise, it would be illogical. On the other hand, because we have embraced those who, as I mentioned, have been deprived of what they have received, those who today with the Social Security Office get a deputy - we think so, and from this assumption we have come out - are not injured during the crisis that has taken place, and difficult decisions in companies. That's why we thought that if they're satisfied with their claims, then let the ZUS pay it out, because today it's regulated. Actually, it's part of the next budget, and we're not violating a certain system here. That's why we didn't want to expand this group, we just wanted to try... Because it's a test, maybe not the best, but it seems pretty significant. To those who had something and in fact lost something to whom something was taken, today we are trying to make up for it in some way - I hope that together in the vote in the Seym and in the Senate - we will make up for it. Therefore, it is difficult for me to accept, as you say, that we share Poles, that we try to underestimate the work of miners. I think, ladies and gentlemen... Let these wordings disappear in this debate. Let's get to the vote, let's get this over with, and let's spread it out so that those who have this power can out of those 10,000. Use it. Let's not tell them it's the 10,000. They're supposed to have a hangover because they get something that's an inelegant adjective. Let's not say it because it hurts these people. We in the Seym give back something that... I'm not saying that those were bad decisions, but they did touch them financially, and I'm not saying that - that today we're giving something with an adjective is wrong. Because it doesn't affect the government, it doesn't touch me - as if someone wanted to touch me, the vice minister who worked on the bill - but it doesn't affect people who are God's guilty spirit, and who we want to compensate for some damage. And I wouldn't want us in this political war to clash that those who get that $10,000 have a feeling, I don't know, shame, because others didn't get it. No. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear criterion here. I think we should all explain this clearly in our parliamentary offices, because those who retired knew they didn't have it anymore. And this is a question of next year, the next, the financial potential of mining companies, which slowly emerge from a certain financial problem. As far as possible, let the board consider with the social side whether they will be able to lean on it. There was also a question, I ask you, of course, about the citizens' project, a couple of parliamentarians, Mr Sitarski and Members of other clubs. It's a civic project. If we carry out this bill, it will largely consummate what the citizens' project introduces to us. Because you'll notice that there's a restoration of the deputies in the civic project, and at the time of the 235,000. people would benefit from this offer, this is definitely decreasing, and we have a few thousand people who, when they retire, have no authority and are not covered by this law. So the question arises: How will we be legally able to resolve this when it comes to a small group of people who are noticed somewhere in this citizens' law? But on this, I think, the committee will bend over next year, because that was also mentioned yesterday at the committee meeting, so then we will also discuss another environment of this law if this law passes. Of course, this law is not different, because, on the one hand, the powers allow us to take this step, as well as the budgetary potential that we have and have increased in relation to the simulation of last year by the eight-nine thousand or even 10 thousand. this year, while actually the price of coal, and this is a link, the conversion factor, we have increased. With regard to the issue of deputies and this relationship or, as a matter of fact, a legal act, who is a party, as I have already mentioned in my reply to Mr Sowa, this is about the social side, the employer. With regard to the correction, that's what we have a problem with. You have suggested what some social environments suggest to extend this to those who have retired and have not had these powers. That's what I mentioned. Here we would have, ladies and gentlemen, a problem with public aid. Unfortunately, it could blow up the whole concept and I'm telling you this, too, because I think you can see it a little wider after this explanation. As for Mr Nowak's question of increasing the amount of eligible, rather, as I said, Mr Nowak, there should be no such increase, because there are no proper indications as to the group, because we are... She can only shrink, because even if there are widows and orphans here, they don't increase that number. Mr Bańkowski also asked about Bogdanka. I've already given the number - 6.5. thousands. It's about the civic project. I was answering your question. Mr. Rometsky is asking for an online application. As we do not yet have, ladies and gentlemen, commonly used internet signatures, this is an organisational problem. This is why we want to put on the Internet a model application and statements so that they can be downloaded, and this possibility will be in many places, while the submission must be at a point that will be assigned to it. We will also talk about these points, because after submitting the application and the declaration, the verification referred to in the Act must take place. We have transferred responsibility to companies that will assess this, because they have data about individuals, so all we have to do is make a statement, and already the responsibility for verification remains with the entity. Mr Czerwiński mentioned these volumes, about 8 billion, measures that go into mining. I want to say that this is the right question, the right suggestion, the right reflection. I do not share, Mr President, and I will not share the view that this is a full continuation of what you have left behind, because it is not, but I respect certain elements of some of your assumptions. Polemics is not a bad thing, so it's not like I'm going out with criticism, but I just want to say that we've spent 2,300 million since 2015 and we've actually booked it. Eight billion. We are going to ask you to postpone this deadline, because I have to tell you that we thought, at least until now, that we are going to be spending more on last year's, and for now we are as efficient as possible and we did not have to spend this amount of money last year and this year. This does not mean that some issues will not arise in later years, so we will want to move it forward. These measures go into typical restructuring, while the measures we are talking about today, notice, will help us to resolve a social issue. Of course we have to look at it in legal terms, but this is a law that has been broken down for this group, which has been shredded, divided, broken somewhere by all these restructuring processes that have been going on since 1989... You have to at least try to compensate for this significant part of people, because these measures were, however, a financial injection for them, and they are pensioners who really were... it was a different wallet. And that's where social justice is right. Therefore, if we compare this situation, otherwise rightly, with situations in other sectors - as Mr Karpiński did, Mr from Modern or Mr PSL, who wondered if we could distinguish between a group - I would like to say that this group, as an industry, had very strong consequences in the restructuring process. I think it would be good for us, too, to be able to speak the right language so that they don't feel guilty again because they get something they've been deprived of. Let it be in our language, our discussion also strongly emphasized. As far as stability is concerned, Mr Czerwiński, yes, I anticipate that stability. Abstracting from the fact that we have a positive economic situation, we are definitely lowering costs and we want to lower them, because our intention, the key here - I ignore that we have shifted payments for the following years, until 2019 and in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and in PGG - to create this capital structure so that the Polish Górnicza Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Bogdanka, as well as Tauron Extraction and Węglokoks with their coal-cox are stable entities in the Polish economic market and constitute raw materials of energy, heating and retail customers. The key here is this stabilisation, which is why we want to support it socially, but we do not want to promise as a shareholder today that the Polish Górnicza Group or Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa will enter into these social issues, because first we have to balance it, on the one hand, the issues of real pay, the issues of what will return to us, i.e. the fourteenth suspended, and then the debt which is on the side of financial institutions or entities that are shareholders today. Mrs Dziuk asked how many people are covered by this law, these powers. As I mentioned, there are 235,000 of them, we have a group locked in here. Mr Suchoñ mentioned private... [[I meant Silesia, Minister, if you could explain the situation of PG Silesia's pensioners.]] This situation is so difficult, it's about a private investor and I at least... If it's about Silesia, I'll check it out and be precise. I'll let you answer later. As far as RCL is concerned, I didn't know it wasn't on the RCL pages, but in the meantime, we looked into why it didn't appear on the RCL pages. There is no subtext here, because, as you remember, there was a parliamentary project and because it has to appear in parallel, there is already a draft amending the state budget, we have proposed - Prime Minister Morawiecki also opted for this solution - in order to adopt the law not at a government meeting but by a circular road. Hence there was no interministerial consultation and the RCL was not as involved as always in this process. And that's all that's happening. That's why it wasn't on the pages, I didn't even know it, but the director checked it out. Mrs. Malik asked about the industry's profits. Yes, indeed, Mrs Górnicza, we can see that even if in the Polish Mining Group this situation was foreseen in the business plan, it was an approved business plan, in the first half of the year it was supposed to be 176 million minus, we have indeed 8 million per plus, only if we put together the starting point, even after the approval of the business plan, adopted by the shareholders, by the banking institutions and by Brussels, we are still in a much better financial and organisational situation than it was planned. That's a good forecast. There are investment challenges ahead to make the most effective use of shareholder funds for investment. There's a shortage here. There's a chance we should spend almost 100% at the end of the year. investment funds. It is so important that the aim is to maintain a certain level of extraction, the level of activity of mines in the Polish Mining Group - from the merger of the Coal Company and Katowice Coal Holding - so that there is no problem with coal on the Polish market. Today we hear all kinds of questions about carbon problems. See, on coal assemblies of the Polish Mining Group there is coal. We've got a problem in private storage. Doesn't mean it's meant to be. Only the Polish group is starting to organize properly and this market is starting to be organized, so I think we have some time to move on to this. Of course, there are already talks with these private actors. Therefore, I thank all the parliamentarians in whom these shortages actually appear, for suggestions to transfer coal from our warehouses, the Polish Mining Group into those regions. Mr Karpiński then asked, and I answered, thanking him for calling on the subject of public aid and concern for public money. I also wanted to show you this relationship. We have taken the challenge, however, to make a large sum, because 2350 million, to allocate to this group, which actually in this process... These people are from another retirement wallet, for them it was quite a significant injection in terms of fuel security for heating. There was a question of Mr Gadowski, who made the collective agreement. Signals. I mentioned that the partners are the board of directors and the social side. In some cases it was a unilateral termination. We have therefore recognised - and here I do not want to drag this out, because let's note that we can do this indefinitely, and the problem needs to be solved - that the boards have faced a certain wall, we objectively state why, let's not discuss it today. At times, they have made such a unilateral decision. She's made herself legal for the future. These people have been left with a certain sense of harm, an inner sense of harm. That's where we're trying to fix it. I think - this is a really big request to all of us - that there are few laws that can connect us. Not much. Let's take advantage of this offer, and let's get together, because we're gonna have to get the Senate to vote next week, and the president's gonna sign the bill... The point is that we can go out with an information campaign to this crowd. The pensioners will not be interested in whether the PiS Member, the Kukiz Member, the Modern or the Platform vote, because these people are waiting, I think, for these measures. So this is about a positive campaign, so that they can be happy that we in Parliament noticed their harm, so that we can show together that around good things we can unite so that we don't find that we could do it better, because I think we can always do better, but sometimes we can't, because there are circumstances. There was also a question by Mr Polka about the issue of PRG. Indeed, this issue was once raised by an association of pensioners from Wałbrzych, where the restructuring process had already started. They applied to the Constitutional Court. E.g. Principal Margis, present here, was also involved in this project. Director, I have to say that when it comes to these deputies, you're already so experienced, you've been involved for years, effectively, and that's what makes you happy. You're in the back room with your employees at the Mining Department this time, too. Act of 6 July 2007. - and here's the funny thing. When the Deputy Minister responsible for Mining was the current Minister, the Constitutional Minister of Energy Tchórzewski, it was possible to implement the Law on Money Equivalence for the right to free coal for persons entitled from mining works companies. That was the answer to the Constitutional Court's judgment. And these people have entered the ZUS. Then there were amendments... [[In 2005, the Council ……]] ...the next governments have amended this bill. So this group is among those who are in the ZUS today, and this, ladies and gentlemen, makes it satisfied. Unfortunately, other PRG groups in the framework of the agreement in these companies, i.e. social parties' agreements and employers, have legally dissolved this agreement and even if we wanted to bring it back today, we have a legal problem, because that is what companies would have to do at their level. That is why I wanted to explain that there is no will to neglect, not to notice a certain group, but there is a question, please, of the reality of carrying out such a legal act, so that we can defend it in negotiations with Brussels. That's why I'm putting this up to you because it's, I think, important. Finally, because it also fell in the words of Mr Sitarski and Mr Polak: How do we want to reach this large group of people? It was on the committee yesterday and it was the right suggestions, questions and the right concern. Indeed, we have a short period of time for such a significant undertaking, that is true. That is why we did not want to extend the period of acceptance of applications. We have introduced an institution to deal with complaints or appeals for next year, but we would like to make a great deal of time with the whole project in order to settle this with the possibility of paying this year, especially in the Silesian voivodeship, because there we have the largest number of people to whom we are directing this 10,000. zł. We want all local media, press, portals plus post... I even have to say what's good news for me that some priests have offered to help by announcing, even by launching on their parish portals... That's very good news. We'll probably take advantage of that, too. I encourage all parliamentarians, whether in the Śląskie voivodship or in the Lesser Poland voivodship, or in other areas that would like to get information from us, would like to get a statement and a request - it will be in the local press included for cutting out, for downloading, as well as in the union press, because we also send this offer to the social side to include applications and a statement simultaneously with information about who is entitled. I've also read this from the podium, the point is to emphasize it strongly, so that those who are entitled will know it. And we would also very much like, Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. There will also be available resources on the portals... I'm sure it's in these companies, because we're doing it through companies that make employees. The Polish Górnicza Group with its mines, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and Spółka Restrukturyzacji Kopalń will participate in this. There will also be points where appropriate statements and requests need to be made. There will also be telephone information points. Using the fact that there is a debate - as you will receive information, we will also give you this contact information, please, as there will be some issues to be resolved, doubts to formulate such a doubt, redirect to the information point of a particular company, telephone so that we can quickly inform the entitled persons that they have the right to benefit from it. So I think there's an undertaking ahead of us. We can only accept statements and proposals after the law enters into force, it enters into force after the President's signature. So let us speak loudly about this, but at the moment that law enters into force, we will be in all the media where we can talk about it. I also encourage all of you to join us in this process. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, this may be a good card for Parliament, that we are together in such undertakings. I think this bill may not be the most perfect, but it is really something that significantly compensates for the events of the previous period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u344	Thank you, Minister, for answering my questions. I hope that these words from the speaker of broad cooperation with Members in the implementation of this law will be a reality. Since during the second reading... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Don't question me, Marshal.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Please do not question.]] I'm not questioning, I just hope that's what it's gonna be, and that's what I'm counting on. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: You questioned me.]] No, no, no, it's not like that. That's what I'm counting on, Minister. Let's get to it, because it's an important bill. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The purpose of the bill is to compensate, within the scope of the State budget, for the financial losses incurred by persons who have received free coal in kind or as equivalent on the basis of collective agreements and related agreements and who have lost their right to free coal as a result of the termination of collective agreements and agreements relating thereto. The difficult financial situation of mining companies resulted in numerous savings in mines. The management of the companies did not act well for the mine's employees, e.g. reducing mining privileges. These actions have resulted in a differentiation of mining rights for access to free coal among the group of pensioners and pensioners depending on the status of the mine they left. I must stress that we now have a situation in which pensioners who have left the mine, which has been liquidated and declared bankrupt, still have the right to free coal in the form of a monetary equivalent that ZUS pays. This is where inequality arises in accessing the right to free coal in a group of former miners. Retirists and pensioners who worked in active mines were deprived of their right to free coal as a result of the termination of collective agreements and agreements related thereto. The bill provides for e.g. payment of one-off compensation of 10 000 PLN and the possibility, after notification by the trader of the applicant at the time, to complete the missing documents within 7 days. During the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, many proposals for amendments to the bill were submitted. I very much welcome the fact that the committee, in my opinion, adopted one of the most important proposals for change at the meeting. The amendment concerns an extension of the deadline for submitting an application from 10 days to 21 days. I personally support this amendment. The majority of those entitled to benefit are older people who often do not have access to the Internet. In addition, collecting all the necessary documents within 10 days for the elderly, would often be an insurmountable limit. The right to free coal, whether in nature or in the form of a monetary equivalent, has always been part of the remuneration of employees of mines and pensioners, is a tradition in this profession. In view of the above, it can be said that the bill meets the expectations of the mining environment. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u346	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health Protection (Prints No 1676 and 1858). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government bill amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism, and the Act on Mental Health Protection, Prints No. 1676 and 1858. I would like to remind you that the aim of this project is to introduce into the current legal system the rules on which family courts are based an order for the court curator to conduct environmental interviews in the enforcement proceedings in family and caring matters after the custody court has informed the court of an event likely to constitute a basis for the initiation of an ex officio procedure as well as at the stage of an exploratory procedure in the case of adults. The project also standardizes the conduct of an environmental interview in other specific categories for which the competent family court is the case. It is the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health, the first law in our legislation standardising matters relating to the protection of mental health. The need for these changes was created following the entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 25 June 2015. The Rules of Procedure of the General Courts in which there were no paragraphs concerning the conduct of environmental interviews by the curators, which was governed by the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts of 23 February 2007 previously in force. There is therefore a need to introduce legal provisions in this respect, especially since the enforcement of family and caring matters is not comprehensively governed by the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. Family courts are obliged to take various actions of their own motion, including prior to the formal initiation of legal proceedings. The aim is therefore to equip the court with the possibility of commissioning interviews to the court's curators after taking the information which may give rise to the initiation of an ex officio procedure. Such cases would be carried out on the register list of Nmo. The amendment also introduces environmental interviews by the probation officer in the enforcement proceedings concerning care and prosecution of adults who are wholly or partly incapacitated. These matters will be carried out on the Op register list. Two further categories of cases are cases from the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and cases from the Law on Mental Health, where the court's curators will also be able to conduct environmental interviews in enforcement proceedings. Those acts have not yet contained such grounds - the non-medical conditions resulting from the Article. 24 laws on sobriety education, e.g. causing a breakdown of family life, demoralizing minors, avoiding work, systematically disturbing peace or public order. An interview will therefore be necessary in order for the court to decide on the obligation to treat or change the treatment, as well as the decision to cease treatment. Under the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, this will establish indications of inability to meet life's needs on its own or to decide to send social assistance home without the consent of the person concerned. High Seym! At its meeting of 27 September this year. Two minor technical and legislative amendments have been introduced. Namely in the article. 1 in Amendment 1. to determine the situation concerning a minor has been replaced by the term "in order to gather information concerning a minor'. And in this article. 1 in Amendment 2. - in Article. 570 - the words "except for the case referred to in Article' are deleted. Article 570 (1) and without amending the rest of the substantive content. High Izbo! The Commission recommends that this proposal be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u348	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Mark Ast to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, contained in prints 1858 and 1676. As the rapporteur said, the aim of the law is to fill a legal gap preventing family courts today from commissioning certain actions to judicial guardians. This is mostly about environmental intelligence. The project, both as regards the Code of Civil Procedure and the other two laws, i.e. education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the protection of mental health, establishes this possibility. Of course, in the course of the debate so far, during the legislative process, there was no controversy, and the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will continue to support this proposal and voted in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u350	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak on behalf of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik's Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. The proposed law amending three legal acts introduces a solution to the Polish legal system, the purpose of which is to equip the family court with the right to instruct the court curator to conduct environmental interviews in the enforcement proceedings conducted in family and caring matters, and after the family and caring court has made information about an event which may constitute a real basis for the initiation of an ex officio procedure, as well as at the stage of an exploratory procedure in the case of adults. The interviews referred to in the proposed legal act would concern minors in the event of circumstances justifying interference in the exercise of parental authority or in the case of adults in the circumstances justifying the initiation of proceedings for the establishment of a guardian or guardian. So on the one hand, we have some actual events that justify a certain activity, and on the other hand, a man has the right to a private life, the right to respect his home mire, which are special values, subject to special protection. They are protected primarily by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as by ratified international agreements, including the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, opened for signature in New York, or the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. In these circumstances, there is a question of setting the right limit, a marking line separating, on the one hand, the need for interference in the interests of the natural person and, on the other hand, the need to protect those goods. It is therefore a matter of ensuring that changes to the law or to the law alone do no more harm than good. Initiating an interview by a probation officer e.g. Anonymously, it seems to raise big doubts. It is not acceptable to interfere in the sphere of family mirage when the causes of this interference could result from misunderstood human kindness. The harm caused under such circumstances may even be irreparable. The law should be a cure for problems, not poison. So here we are dealing with a two-right confrontation, two ideas, and it seems that we need to look for a golden means to solve this problem. It seems to us that the attempt to find such a solution is an amendment which is tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to the proposed law, namely we propose to amend the wording of the article. 1 point (1) (a) b in such a way that it may be possible for a court curator to order certain interview activities when a family court takes a credible message of an event justifying the initiation of an ex officio procedure and in the course of an enforcement procedure. Here we also propose to change the literal indication of the amended provision, that is to say § 1a added to Article 570. It seems to us that the amendment we are proposing responds to, alleviates problems that could arise due to sometimes too misunderstood understanding and taking any action without a legitimate reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u352	Thank you very much. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz team15 by Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u353	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government bill amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health Protection. It should be pointed out that the court curator is taking educational and rehabilitation measures. His work is also diagnostic and profiloactive. It shall review the enforcement of judgments of the court. The curator also collects all necessary information from family, neighbors, teachers, etc. The curator shall submit a written report on the interview carried out, usually within 14 days of receipt of the order. The court's probation officer will be entitled to conduct an environmental interview in order to gather information on the minor and his/her environment, in matters relating to the establishment of care or prosecution, to clarify the circumstances in which the person concerned may point out the abuse of alcohol. Such action may also be taken in cases where the custody court has taken a message of an event justifying the initiation of an ex officio procedure and in the course of an enforcement procedure. The custody court will be able to refer to the appropriate organizational unit to support the family and foster care system, e.g. social assistance centre, in order to identify the persons competent to provide foster care to the child. In this case, Kukiz15 strongly supports the further proceding of this law and its implementation into Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u355	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, Prints No 1676 and 1858. The proposal concerns the introduction of provisions providing a legal basis for family courts to order the court curator to conduct environmental interviews in family and caring matters also after the judgment is delivered and after the custody court has taken information which may constitute a factual basis for the initiation of proceedings of its own motion. According to the applicants, the project standardises environmental intelligence issues in cases such as: to treat people who are addicted to alcohol, to place them in a psychiatric hospital or a social security home without consent. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after the date of the announcement. The Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes in its work made only stylistic amendments, not substantive amendments, e.g. instead of: in order to determine the situation concerning the minor and his environment, the following shall appear: in order to gather legal information for family courts to order the court curator to conduct environmental interviews in family and caring matters also after the decision to be enforced and after the court has taken custody of the information likely to constitute... As the applicants state in the explanatory memorandum, the information collected by the curator will help the court to decide whether to rehab or stay in a psychiatric hospital, and will also help to remove the question of interpretation of environmental interviews and thus fill the existing legal gap. However, the project also has numerous disadvantages, e.g. It interferes with the sphere of human rights and freedom, which is the basis for our functioning. The project lacks the definition of the categories of cases and types of proceedings in which environmental interviews can be commissioned, and the criteria for environmental interviews regulation are unclear. In addition, a custody court in matters relating to the custody of the persons who have been deprived of their rights or are competent to conduct an environmental interview without referring the case to the judicial team. During the committee work, our comments were not taken into account. Yeah, but still, the Modern Club recommends a bill for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u356	Thank you. As far as the Polish People's Party is concerned, I do not see Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. On the other hand, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. None of the Members have signed up to ask the question, and I therefore have a question for the Minister to speak. In this situation, the Minister will not speak. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on the Code of Civil Procedure, the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health, prints no. 1676 and 1858. On the basis of the proposed draft regulation, the guardians will be able to instruct the court to conduct environmental interviews in enforcement proceedings in custody cases and after the custody court has informed the court of the event which may give rise to ex officio proceedings (before its formal initiation) and at the stage of the investigation in the case of adults. After the change, the court's curators will also be able to conduct environmental interviews in cases concerning the use of compulsory treatment of alcohol addicts, as well as the placement of a person in a psychiatric hospital or admission to a social assistance home without their consent. The information collected by the court curator during the environmental interview will help the court assess whether there are non-medical reasons for deciding whether to take alcohol-dependent treatment (family life distribution, demoralizing minors, avoiding work, disturbing peace or public order) or to place a person without her consent in a psychiatric hospital (inability to exist alone) or to send a person to the home of social assistance without her consent (necessary care by others). High Izbo! Existing rules, i.e. the law of 27 July 2001 on guardians of the courts does not specify precisely the categories of cases and the type of proceedings in which the court or judge is entitled to order a professional curator to conduct an environmental interview. In view of this, the proposal in question, which sets out the rules in this regard, needs to be assessed positively. The conduct of an interview at the place of residence or residence of the person concerned is the interference of the State (a public officer, who is a court curator) in the sphere of rights and freedoms protected by both national and international law. Unclear criteria for such interference, based solely on interpretation rules and not on legislation, may raise doubts from the point of view of the standards of the rule of law. This project will clarify the criteria for a court's commissioning an environmental interview, which will undoubtedly improve the standards for the application of law in this area. The implementation of the responsibilities of care courts resulting from supervision of care requires specific tools. Without the knowledge of the living conditions of a disabled person or disabled person, including his or her living and social situation, it is not possible to verify the manner in which he or she is taken care of and the circumstances and, in the past, to determine correctly the extent of the custody of the guardian or guardian for that person. In view of the impact of the proposed regulation on the improvement of the operation of courts and curators, it should be considered beneficial for the efficiency of the supervision system in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health after work on this project in committee. As has been said many times, the amendment is intended to fill the current legal gap in the matter of commissioning environmental interviews to curators by courts. It has also been repeated many times that these regulations are needed and expected. These include: family and caring matters and situations in which the court is informed of the need for appropriate action. The proposed rules will also apply to the treatment of alcohol addicts and to the placement in a psychiatric hospital or a social security home. In view of the importance of environmental interviews, it is necessary to construct rules that do not raise any question of interpretation. Such a criterion is undoubtedly fulfilled by this amendment. It is also important to me that, despite some doubts, the National Council of Curators has obtained a positive opinion of this environment as a project that appreciates the professionalism of the curator's judicial service. This is important because it is among others. Curators will be the practice of the proposed changes. During the committee's work, no amendments were tabled to this draft amending its main assumptions, and therefore, near Free and Solidarnia, it will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u359	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment had been tabled to the bill submitted, on the basis of Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 19th agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws will not be discussed at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws (prints No. 1780 and 1896). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws implements in the Polish legal order a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of the intra-corporate transfer. The envisaged changes in these provisions contained in the government project are also aimed at improving the regulation that is related to migration management in Poland, including for example. introduction of facilitations for foreigners who undertake studies in Poland, for graduates of Polish universities looking for work and for foreigners taking up work in Poland also in competitions desirable for the Polish economy. I would now like to discuss the work that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. This meeting took place on 10 October this year. It considered an extraordinary subcommittee report on the draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. At that meeting, the committee introduced the following amendments to the subcommittee report. Firstly, new substantive grounds have been added for refusing temporary residence permits and refusing to allow work related to the fulfilment of obligations arising from the provisions of ratified international agreements in force in the Republic of Poland, as well as regulations so that the amended provisions can also be applied in proceedings which will be initiated before the date of entry into force of the Act. For example, I would like to recall United Nations Security Council Resolution 2375 of 11 September this year, which established restrictive measures against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and provided for certain restrictions on the issuance of new authorisations for the work of its citizens. Secondly, the committee adapted the wording of the provisions of the Foreigners Act establishing a requirement for the applicant's personal appearance under the rigour of leaving the application without recognition to the new wording of the article. 64 § 2 of the Act of 14 June 1960. Code of administrative procedure in order to enable the voivode to appoint a foreigner for a longer period than 7 days in case of a call to appear under strict conditions of leave without proper recognition of the application for temporary residence permit or permanent residence permit. Thirdly, regulations were introduced into the Act as a general basis for the transmission by the voivode, the Head of the Office for Foreigners and the Council for Refugees of information about certain decisions, if they become final, as well as other decisions, which will result in the fact that the stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland will cease to be legal, while at the same time repealing partial regulations. Fourthly, the Act of 12 December 2013 on Foreigners was introduced in order to identify the voivodship which ruled on the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out intra-corporate transfer work at first instance as the authority competent to adopt the notification of any change of circumstances affecting the conditions of the authorisation in the event that the head of the Office for Foreigners would grant the authorisation by issuing a decision so-called. Reformatory. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid a situation where there would be no competent authority to adopt such a notification. Fifthly, it was imposed on the Head of the Office for Foreigners to transmit without delay to the Chief Border Guard a notification from the host entity established in another Member State of its intention to use the so-called "Polish Republic of Poland' on the territory of the so-called "Polish Republic'. short-term mobility by a foreigner who has obtained a residence permit from the so-called. annotation of ICT in another Member State of the European Union. Sixthly, the proposed provisions for a new temporary residence permit for long-term mobility have been laid down in such a way as to show that, as a general rule, such authorisation is granted for an internship worker for a period of up to one year, but that period may not be longer than the period of validity of the foreigner's residence permit referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a Council Regulation (EC) No 1030/2002 with an ICT endorsement issued by another Member State of the European Union. After the seventh, additional amendments were introduced to the Act of 13 June 2003 on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, aimed at introducing a legal basis for the Border Guard authorities to apply to the court for the placement of a unaccompanied minor in foster care in the event of his or her submission by a representative of a non-governmental or international organisation involved in providing assistance to foreigners for international protection, as well as for the transfer of such minor to Poland under Regulation (EU) No 604 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013. After the eighth, amendments were made to the Law of 20 July 2017 amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws, first, in order to correct the incorrect reference in Article. 88z Act of 20 April 2004 on the promotion of employment and the institutions of the labour market, and secondly, in order to clarify the provisions added in that Law on foreigners which concern and concern the granting of a new temporary residence permit due to seasonal work, so that the competent authority knows what is to be done in determining whether the foreigner applying for such authorisation has a source of stable and regular income which is sufficient to cover the cost of its maintenance. After the ninth, one of the transitional provisions was corrected by a vague definition of the ban on entry. These are, I would say, the amendments that have been accepted in the report. The proposal was made by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would now like to present briefly also the amendments tabled, which were rejected as unfounded, but were subsequently tabled as minority requests. There were probably eight of these amendments in total. The purpose of the individual amendments rejected was, first, not to introduce the proposal to amend the Foreigners Act as an exception to the regulation on the basis of which the foreigner's obligation to return to work without the required work permit or registered at the county labour office of the employer's intention to entrust him with the work or to fine him for illegal work. The proposed amendment aims to remove doubts as to whether the negative condition of the obligation to return is that the perpetrator who entrusts the performance of the performance of the marks of the act in question, the offence or, in addition, the entity's marks and the assignment of the perpetrator of the act of guilt are carried out. Secondly, not to introduce the proposed amendments to the Foreigners Act, which provided for mandatory ruling in the decision to oblige the foreigner to return to a re-entry ban covering the territory of the Republic of Poland and other countries of the Schengen area. Thirdly, the failure to introduce the proposed amendments to the Foreigners Act, which aimed at identifying new cases which exclude the possibility of withdrawing the re-entry ban. Fourthly, the failure to introduce the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act, according to which the ongoing procedure for granting a temporary residence permit due to circumstances which required a short stay, will no longer be an obstacle to the execution of the decision on the foreigner's obligation to return. Fifthly, the introduction in the Foreigner's Regulation Act, according to which the foreigner will be granted permission to stay tolerated even if during the proceedings concerning the foreigner's obligation to return the fact that the foreigner's obligation to return is not feasible for reasons beyond the authority competent for the compulsory execution of the decision to oblige the foreigner to return. Sixthly, not to introduce the proposed amendments to the Foreigners Act, which changed the design of the regulations which laid the basis for the placement of foreigners in guarded centres for foreigners or the use of detentions for foreigners, as well as the use of so-called. Freedom measures. Seventhly, the failure to introduce the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act, which was intended to clarify the provision allowing the extension for a fixed period, necessary for the issuing and enforcement of the decision on the foreigner's obligation to return, the application of a preventive measure in the form of a stay in a guarded centre or detention for foreigners vis-à-vis a foreigner, to whom a final decision was issued to refuse to grant him refugee status or subsidiary protection, to accept an application for international protection as inadmissible or to cancel the proceedings for granting international protection. The last of the minority's conclusions, which is contained in the report, concerned the non-imposition of the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act, which aims to exclude the decision to repeal the decision of the first instance authority on the obligation of the foreigner to return and refer the case to re-examine from the catalogue the grounds for exempting the foreigner from the guarded centre for foreigners. That's all the minority amendments. Some of these minority amendments, which were rejected, were based on the claim and argument, which was accompanied by, in quotes, by the non-compliance of the proposed rules with European Union law. I would like to stress here that neither the relevant organizational cell within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Office for Sejm Analysis nor the Legislative Bureau have noticed such inconsistencies. Of course, the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, who also participated very actively, which is obvious, in the work on this government bill, have also taken a clear critical position in this matter. Of course, for all the work of all the ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I would like to express my thanks and respect, also to the representatives of the Ministry and of course to the Head of the Office for Foreigners with accompanying persons, also to express my appreciation and respect for this competent and important issue, which is regulated in this legal act, the amendment of the law. That's pretty much it, you could say, all the work on this piece of legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u361	Thank you and please stay, sir, because I see that you will be presenting the position of the Law and Justice Club. I will only announce the formalities, namely that the Sejm has determined that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, sir. Speech on behalf of the club Law and Justice of Mr Jerzy Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u362	Your Marshal, here I am not going to use - I hope everyone is happy about it - all 5 minutes because it so happens that all the amendments that have been made to the report are amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I also discussed them here in detail, along with amendments that did not obtain the majority. In your report, so to speak, you have it in front of you, so that I would not like to refer again to this position, which is contained in the report. The amendments were accepted in the report of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The government has supported them and, of course, we particularly support the adoption of this draft law as soon as possible, as this implementation of the European Directive is also taking place with some delay. I think and I think that we should, as soon as possible, if we can, of course, vote today and adopt the amendment of this draft law contained in those Parliamentary prints, which were previously mentioned here by your marshal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u363	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Wojciech Wilk to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u364	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present a position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The project presented by the government in print no. 1780 is a fairly extensive regulation. Its purpose, in line with the justification submitted by the applicants, is to align the Polish law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. The Directive covers, as a general rule, the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of intra-corporate transfers. But the proposals contained in the project have a wider scope and also cover other issues related to the stay of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. As the rapporteur said, the proposed solutions were examined at the subcommittee meeting, then the meetings, actually meetings, of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee. At both the subcommittee meeting and the committee meeting, the representatives of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights and the Association for Legal Intervention submitted their comments on this project. On the basis of these comments, we have tabled some amendments, which unfortunately did not find recognition in the eyes of the ruling majority, and that is a pity. They are also presented by the rapporteur as minority proposals. I would like to draw attention to those minority proposals that I had the pleasure of submitting in committee, in a few words. In general, their aim was to clarify or leave in the current legal state solutions that concern foreigners. I am referring here, for example, to those solutions which go beyond the scope of EU directives. As I said, the comments submitted were rejected at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. These amendments have been rejected and we have therefore tabled them as minority proposals. I hope that these minority proposals may find recognition in the eyes of the High House during the vote. In my opinion, the introduction of these minority proposals into the bill would certainly contribute to improving the quality of the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The project was examined in depth in the subcommittee, later in the committee. His details were also presented very carefully here by the rapporteur, Mr Jerzy Polak, so that, looking at such exceptional interest in the Parliament hall, I will not repeat all the details that have been mentioned. In a few sentences, I'll just try to characterize the project itself. The draft law amending the Foreigners Act aims at adapting the Polish legal order to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of intra-corporate transfers, e.g. The changes in the regulations presented in this project are also aimed at creating a better legal framework allowing for informed migration management in Poland and the reception of foreigners to facilitate the legalisation of stays for the most desirable categories of foreigners. The proposed changes are e.g. introducing new definitions, ordering many issues that were not foreseen in the current legal state, changing the provisions which were inconsistent with each other, clarifying the rules for crossing the border of the Republic of Poland. The regulations are intended to increase our security and control of immigrants arriving in Poland. It goes on for example. the refusal of a visa in the event of reasonable suspicion that the foreigner has failed to provide false information. This project also provides for a specific basis for granting temporary residence permits and work to foreigners wishing to do work in the profession desirable for the Polish economy and having the professional qualifications required to do the same work. The project provides for a whole range of different facilities, clarifications and changes. Apart from the fact that it implements EU law, in some cases it goes a little further, but towards safeguarding our Polish rights, our Polish interests. Therefore, Kukiz15 fully supports this project and will recommend voting in favour of it to its Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament, the government has decided in this proposal to regulate a number of important issues relating to residence and, above all, the work of foreigners. It seems that the government is beginning to understand what problems entrepreneurs are in at the moment in the labour market, that migration is one of those solutions that can improve this situation. We have information that there are 150,000 missing in the construction market. employees. In general, it is estimated that the Polish labour market can accept about 1 million new workers, because this is the extent to which their shortage is estimated. A few things that the bill introduces are going in the right direction. It's about simplifying procedures. It is valuable that the requirement of obtaining a certificate from the old age has been waived that the employer cannot find an employee on the Polish labour market, allowing him to hire a foreigner. One of the things that we don't think is perfect is how to define the limits of those workers who may be drawn to work. First of all, these limits can vary from country to country. However, these decisions, which are handed over to the Minister, should be consulted both with local government units and with employers' organisations, who know best what competitions are in order to gain an employee, where there are really such problems in Poland. In general, the Modern Club supports these solutions which are proposed and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u369	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u370	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! The Foreigners Act has been amended several times over almost 4 years, either by changing international situations or by significant under-definitions in existing regulations. Today we come to the second reading of the Government's submission, another amendment of the law, quite extensive, which focuses on adapting the existing legislation to the needs of accepting certain groups of foreigners. The proposed regulations aim to create a better legal framework for informed migration management in Poland and for the reception of foreigners. In view of the complexity of the matter, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has leaned closely over the submitted, as I have pointed out, extensive matter. In order not to replicate the detailed position presented by the rapporteur, I will allow myself to refer to the most important, according to the club of the Polish People's Party, new regulations. Namely, a new task has been added to the Head of the Office for Foreigners, which will serve as a contact point for the purposes set out in the Directive. It is worth noting the temporary residence permit for which two new chapters sanction the condition to which this objective is intended, which is long-term mobility consisting of intra-corporate transfer. Similarly, the legislator introduces legal solutions enabling intra-corporate transferees to benefit from short-term mobility within the European Union. Therefore, it was necessary to amend Chapter 8 of the Act on temporary residence permits for family members of citizens of the Republic of Poland and members of families of foreigners, which according to Art. 19 The Directive provides for facilitating family reunification for intra-corporate transferees. The derivative of these changes, which seems logical, is the amendment of the Law on Family Benefits, as well as the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions. Changes have been made to the Freedom of Business Act. At the same time, amendments to the Law on Public-funded healthcare provision are approved. Special attention should be paid to the possibility of issuing a regulation containing a list of professions desirable for the Polish economy, reflecting shortages on the Polish labour market as a whole. In doing so, the voivodships are allowed to draw up lists of professions and types of work exempt from the so-called. a local labour market test. The granting of temporary residence permits for highly qualified occupations is substantially amended and it is proposed to determine in this case the remuneration provided for in the relevant Regulation. The legislator provides for the establishment of employment limits for foreigners, which is to be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland in a given calendar year. One of the important regulations should be to define the way in which foreigners continue their studies, as well as to determine which scientific or artistic disciplines can be continued as a consideration. The mobility of the foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland has been quite clearly and precisely defined in the matter discussed today, where on the one hand it is possible to talk about guaranteeing the interests of the Republic of Poland, and on the other hand about certain freedoms and rights for persons to whom our country's authorities have authorised temporary legal residence in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the strict issue Whereas the procedure of the Polish government authorities, as well as the existing sanctioning of the Polish and EU legal order, is to be agreed that the provisions in question have been guaranteed. The Polish People's Party does not see or object to the solutions covered by this matter. We will therefore vote in favour of the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u371	Thank you very much. There were two people on the question list. Would any of you like to go on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing up. . I ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club, to ask for the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My question concerns the introduction into the bill of additional conditions of interest of the Republic of Poland, which is the basis for not determining the date of voluntary return of the foreigner. According to the material from the consultation of this project, this condition is contrary to the 2008 Directive, as the Directive contains a closed catalogue of reasons and does not have the same interests as the State. I wanted to ask myself, " What's next about this controversial record? Has it been removed because the project is very extensive, or will it soon be removed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u373	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will ask another question about this point of order. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to my previous statement, I would like to ask: If, although this will not be in this law, it is not written down, before any of the ministers issue a decision on the limits of work permits, it can be hoped that such a decision will, however, be consulted with local government units and employers' unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u375	With this question, we have exhausted the list of MEPs. Please respond to the Head of the Office for Foreigners of Mr.Rafal Rogala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mrs Czernow's question, I would like to point out that, during the legislative process, such a condition was removed from the text of the article. 315 and is currently not in the bill, so for today in the article. 315 there is no reason based on a decision on a commitment to return to the interests of the Republic of Poland. However, to answer Mr Meysztowicz's question, I would like to point out that the limits that are being designed will be a tool for managing migration, legal migration. This tool will be introduced on the basis of regulations which are optional. These regulations will be issued in consultation with the Minister for Labour and with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Given the need to develop or prepare even better tools to assess labour market needs, these regulations will be able to be, so this provision will only be operational from 2019. I want to ensure that, in the course of inter-ministerial arrangements, such draft regulations are always agreed with employers' organisations, as well as with workers' organisations, most often with trade unions, and, if necessary, also with local self-government representatives. Therefore, the committee responsible shall evaluate the draft regulations of this type. Therefore, the content of these regulations establishing possible, I stress, the possible limits will be the subject of such negotiations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u377	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The proposed law is intended to transpose into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals as part of the intra-corporate transfer. The rules introduced are designed to help us manage migration consciously in our country and to create a better legal framework for the reception of foreigners. It is necessary to introduce detailed legislation, inter alia. for foreigners who undertake studies in Poland, for foreigners who undertake work in Poland or are graduates of Polish universities. Among the proposed solutions are a number of such solutions that improve the process of applying for a temporary residence permit, among others. departure from the requirement of having a permanent and regular source of income by graduates of Polish universities in favour of having provided maintenance in Poland. The authorisation procedure for graduates of Polish universities has also been clarified. I believe that the introduction of facilitations in granting temporary residence and work permits and on permanent residence of workers in professions desirable on the Polish market will have a positive impact on the labour market and will reduce labour shortages in these sectors of the Polish economy. Introduction of optional limits by division, among others. to voivodships, professions and types of agreements will allow for future control of the situation and response to changing needs. Most importantly, this will prevent the emergence of negative developments in the area of the labour market. Amendment to Article The 195th Act deals with a situation where this child, like a parent, can obtain a permanent residence permit not only if it is preceded by a temporary residence permit, as is the case in the current legislation. The provisions of the contested law extend this to a situation where the permanent residence permit is preceded by refugee status, subsidiary protection and humanitarian residence consent. The amendment introduced in this Article corresponds to the principle of equal treatment against the law. During the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, an extraordinary subcommittee was set up to work on a draft law on foreigners. However, it should be stressed that no substantive amendments were adopted during the subcommittee meeting. It was only during the committee's work that many amendments were tabled. The social side was actively involved in their discussion, which should be highlighted. Some of them were accepted by the committee. Others have been submitted in the form of minority applications. About Free and Solidarni will vote in accordance with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u379	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We have an hour. 15.14, but there is neither the Minister nor the Member. So, three minutes' break, please. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 14 hours 15 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017 (the leadership of Malta in the Council of the European Union) (print No 1723) together with the position of the European Union Commission (print No 1804). Although I have announced that it will be for you... Unless you need to go to a committee meeting, and the Minister won't mind if you speak first. Please, Madame, there is a committee meeting, so we will start with the Member who will take the floor to present the reasons for the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u380	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, for the fourth time as chairman of this committee, to present a report and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2017 chaired by Malta in the Council of the European Union. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Maltese Presidency was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 6 July and forwarded to the High House on 7 July. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared in cooperation with all ministries and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. It is already 27 half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland from participation in the work of the European Union during subsequent periods of the presidency. The Commission for European Union Affairs considered the information provided in print 1723 at its 156th meeting on 11 October 2017. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Minister Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the progress and achievements of the Maltese Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Maltese Presidency focused on the following issues: migration, internal market, security, social inclusion, neighbourhood policy and maritime policy. I would like to say that during the Maltese Presidency it was also the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. Personally, I am pleased to mention this anniversary about the parliamentary dimension. I had the pleasure to take part and speak on behalf of the Polish Sejm at the extraordinary summit of the Presidents of the European Union Parliaments in Rome organized on the occasion of this unique anniversary. At the government level, on the other hand, the end of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome was the signing of a declaration by the Heads of Government and States. I would like to emphasise in particular that we welcome the inclusion in the Polish declaration of the request to strengthen the role of Member States by making national parliaments more involved in decision-making by the European Union. Returning to the key points of the Presidency, the Maltese Presidency continued to seek constructive solutions on migration. The Presidency's activities focused primarily on the adoption of new ways of cooperation on the central Mediterranean route. In addition, in order to reduce illegal migratory flows to the European Union, Union action was aimed at stepping up cooperation with the countries of North Africa. The Presidency was also working on a common European asylum system to establish a mandatory and automatic allocation mechanism for applicants for international protection. Today we know that the principles of this system have been rejected because action within the European Union cannot be based on coercion and pressure on the Member States. The second priority of the Presidency, the internal market, was focused on the implementation of the Single Market Strategy and the Digital Single Market Strategy. I would like to remind you that this was a time of both positive and negative actions from the point of view of Poland. As a success, we can jointly consider the agreements that have led to the abolition of roaming charges since June 2017. On the other hand, a very important topic for Poland was published at the end of November 2016, a package of legislative proposals on electricity, i.e. the so-called. winter package. The new package of documents proposed by the European Commission raises concerns about the proposed legislation which favours gas in power market support mechanisms and eliminates coal-based technologies. In addition, direct discrimination against coal installations can be observed, there is no systematic increase in their efficiency and the possibility of using clean coal technologies. It also raises concerns about how to implement this solution without assessing the impact of its regulation. At this point, I would like to point out that, while implementing the possibilities of parliamentary diplomacy, I have written to the 16 chairmen of the committee on European national Parliaments, calling for action to adopt a reasoned opinion on the solutions contained in the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market, which is so-called. the winter package. These active actions resulted in the adoption by the Sejm of a reasoned opinion on 11 May 2017, i.e. the adoption of a resolution on the recognition of the draft Regulation COM (2016) 861 as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Reservations concerning the compatibility of the draft regulation with the principle of subsidiarity were notified in the form of reasoned opinions by parliamentary chambers: from Poland - Senate, from Austria - Federal Council, from the Czech Republic - Chamber of Poselska, from Germany - Bundestag and Bundesrat, from Hungary - National Assembly, from Romania - Chamber of Deputies and Senate and from Spain - General Cortesis. However, at least 19 of the 56 votes allocated to national Parliaments had to be met to initiate the procedure. In the case of draft regulation 861, the number of votes was 12, so unfortunately the required voting threshold has not been reached. However, I would like to assure you that until the documents are adopted, within the framework of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, we will continue to discuss and develop a Polish position. The projects proposed by the European Commission lead to profound changes in the shape of the energy sector. I would like to stress that the new regulations must not lead to discrimination against coal sources, which for countries such as Poland are not only the basis of energy mix, but also the foundation of energy security. We also continue to act by explaining our partners, and within V4, and in the Baltic States, our position on coal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another challenge faced by the Maltese Presidency was security issues. The priority was to strengthen cooperation with the European External Action Service in the implementation of the European Global Strategy, to counter terrorism and to establish an EU entry and exit system for third-country nationals. As always, the European Union's defence and security policies have been complementary to NATO activities. With regard to the Social Agenda, negotiations on the draft revision of the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services are still ongoing. Let me remind you that national parliaments have reached so-called for this project. a yellow card and they found this project incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The European Commission continues to work on these solutions, unfortunately deaf to the voice of national Parliaments in such a way that these solutions and these Commission proposals do not continue to produce positive effects for us. The next priority of the Presidency, the neighbourhood policy, is particularly important for Poland. The success of the measures that allowed Georgian and Ukrainian citizens to join visa-free travel within the European Union has been achieved. The last priority of the Maltese Presidency is maritime policy. The Maltese Presidency's activities in this area focused on the integrated maritime policy of the European Union and on improving international ocean governance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the Commission for European Affairs, I would like to emphasise once again that the Maltese Presidency is also a time for the active work of the Commission for European Affairs. During the presidency of Malta to the Council of the European Union, the committee held 39 meetings, examined 49 European Union documents, including 60 draft legislative acts, adopted five opinions, including four opinions on Union documents. In the case of two documents, the committee found that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, it was a draft regulation on the internal electricity market and a draft directive on the balance between working life and private parents and carers. During the Maltese Presidency, the Commission for European Affairs held a number of thematic meetings. Among other things, the committee considered the information of Vice-President of the European Commission, Commissioner for Euro Affairs and Social Dialogue and Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union of Mr Valdis Dombrovskis on the 2017 national report in the framework of the European Semester and the Annual Growth Survey, as well as the European Commission's work plan taking into account financial and economic issues. In addition, the committee discussed issues related to Brexit in detail. First, Mr Konrad Szymański defined the objectives of Poland in this area at the meeting of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then the committee held a meeting with the main negotiator of the task force of the European Commission for the preparation and conduct of negotiations on the Brexit case by Mr Michel Barnier. The response to these actions was a meeting with the UK ambassador on the British Government's strategy to exit the UK from the European Union. I can assure you that the committee will continue to monitor issues related to the planned UK presence from the European Union. In addition, the committee gave an opinion on the appointment of a Judge to the Court of the European Union for the term of office of 2016. 2022. I would add that, as every year, the committee took note of the annual report by the European Court of Auditors on the implementation of the European Union budget in 2016, which was presented in detail and reliably by Janusz Wojciechowski, a member of the European Court of Auditors. The Permanent Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union and the Emergency Sub-Committee on Energy Policy of the European Union remain active within the European Union. I would like to stress that the Law of 8 October 2010 on the cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, so-called. The co-operation law allows the committee to obtain current information about the government's activities in the European arena, which the Commission for European Affairs makes reasonable and meticulous use of. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With all due regard...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u381	Your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u382	Oh, your marshal, indeed. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the well prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thanking the Minister for a meaningful dialogue with the members of the committee, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Sejm in which the Polish Parliament accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2017, chaired by Malta in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Nothing to add, nothing to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u383	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to present the information. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely nice for the fourth time for me to present to the Polish Parliament information about Polish policy during the next Presidency, which ended in the middle of this year, the Maltese Presidency. A very detailed document prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been forwarded to you by the appropriate means. I would like to focus on those issues which, in my opinion, were the most important during these six months from the point of view of Polish politics. Of course, the natural key challenge faced by Malta during its presidency was the issue of the still unconvinced migration crisis. Malta, like Poland, is a border country managing the external border of the European Union, which is also a country whose border is a very sensitive section of the external border of the European Union, where we are still dealing with a non-determinated, uncontrolled wave of migration, which, of course, has direct consequences for the countries there, while the crisis itself clearly also affects the political stability of the European Union itself, which is why it is also important from a Polish point of view. With the enormous efforts of the Maltese administration and in a spirit of good cooperation with the Member States at the very beginning of this Presidency, we have adopted the La Valletta Declaration, which sets the course, rhythm, sets out further initiatives that are being implemented within the European Union on the external dimension of migration policy. First of all, they are. These are, of course, issues relating to the direct protection of the external border, not only to the technical dimension, to the physical protection of the border, in particular in such difficult circumstances as the maritime border, but also to equipment, as far as the external border is concerned, to instruments which allow all Member States to have access to information on how migration flows are carried out, personal traffic at the external borders of the Union. This is an extremely important aspect of building not only a sense of control as regards the external border, but also a sense of credibility of the Schengen system. Without proper protection of the external border, the Schengen system will be washed up, and confidence will also be washed up in countries that are completely deep within the European Union. This declaration concerns, in particular, cooperation in the mid-Med section, which is where Malta lies. To this day, due to political difficulties in Libya, it is difficult to repeat the successful experience of the European Union-Turkey agreement, but the direction of these changes is fully supported by the Polish Government. These are really the only instruments that can bring the desired, I believe, state of full control of the external border and migration movement in the European Union. These plans, by involving, of course, relevant international institutions, in particular the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, including the International Organisation for Migration, assume the growing involvement of the European Union in humanitarian aid and development aid, in investment policy, in building the resilience of countries that are source countries, countries of origin for migration, as well as transit countries for migrants. All this very ambitious plan assumes that the European Union in this part of the world, where migratory tension is born, where destabilisation is born causing a million-dollar scale when it comes to leaving homes by millions of people, that the European Union will be in this region of the world, has become increasingly involved in these areas. Poland is also ready to engage, not only financially, but also personally, technically and certainly politically - this is already happening - in these activities of the European Union, which are widely supported by all Member States, because all Member States, I believe, clearly see their own interest in ensuring that the external borders of the European Union are controlled so that migration policy is controlled, predictable, that it does not raise legitimate concerns today as to whether we are able to control our own territory. This universal agreement does not exist in the European Union around other elements of the response to the migration crisis, in particular as regards the deep reform of the asylum system, the deep reform of the Dublin Regulation. Here Poland's position is equally clear. Poland will not accept that the European Union should take over the competence of Member States in border management and control of migration flows, including in the control and distribution of international care to individual groups to which this care should be taken. The Polish State is of the opinion that each Member State of the European Union should not only have responsibility, but should also have instruments to control this policy on its own, so we do not agree that even in a layer, even partially, these powers should be transferred to the level of supranational institutions. This is linked to our deep conviction that this is the responsibility of the State for security, that this is the responsibility of the State for migration, but also because such instruments, such solutions, which have recently ended pilots, do not have any expected effect. Any form of sharing responsibility for migratory pressures has not brought any significant effect to this day, has not brought relief to anyone interested, has certainly not given the impression that Europe is regaining control over its borders, over its territory. So we have at least two very serious arguments not to go on the path of failed pilotage, which was the decision to relocate 160 000. the people to whom it belongs - perhaps - international protection in the world. The second aspect, however important from a Polish point of view, is the internal market policy. Malta has made far-reaching declarations on this issue, declarations on the implementation of the internal market strategy as far as possible. The effects are quite limited. In the European Union, we see clearly that there is a great deal of tension on the basis of what the internal market should look like and what role the internal market should play. We have, so far, an unprecedented scale of protectionism in individual Member States, which is also slowly shifting to institutions which are Treaty-led to defend the integrity of the common market. Nevertheless, we appreciate the work, the start of work on a relatively modest but important legislative initiative, which is the e-card. The aim of the e-card is to significantly reduce administrative burdens, bureaucratic burdens, which are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can compete more effectively in the Community market for services. We would like this initiative to be much more ambitious to be applied more widely. On the other hand, we appreciate that although this small step can be taken towards the implementation of the internal market strategy. At the same time, we had a very serious tension with an initiative that goes in a completely different direction. I am referring here to the ongoing work on the Posting of Work Directive. The lack of a proper compromise that would reconcile the integrity of the common market and equal access to the Community market for all with legitimate expectations that the work and the people doing it should be adequately protected, the absence of such a compromise, the lack of such an opportunity forced us to block work at Council level and reject the possibility of adopting a general approach on this directive, which is still the subject of not only the very intensive negotiations of the labour ministers, but also the political dialogue of the Heads of Government. On issues that are related to the Community market, although they mainly affect energy policy issues, I would include successful negotiations on the Security of Gas Supply Regulation and successful negotiations that have brought us a clear improvement in the transparency of intergovernmental agreements on energy. These are the issues that are really building the resilience of the Community market to the possible pressure of external partners, they are building our trading position, negotiating in this very sensitive area, especially for our part of Europe, the area of the energy market, but in fact they are producing an effect in the form of increasing energy security also of Poland. The third aspect of the internal market, which was important for the Maltese Presidency and is certainly crucial for Poland's policy today, is the development of the digital market. For this reason, Prime Minister Beata Szydło was one of the initiators, the main initiator of the letter of prime ministers of 17 Member States who decided to ask the European Council to speed up legislative work in all areas of the Community market, not only on issues related to the digital market, such as contract law or copyright, but also on infrastructure issues. The role of the European Union in speeding up the deployment of fibre infrastructure, the infrastructure needed to build the fifth generation network, and ultimately the management of spectrum must be urgently defined, without which the European Union will remain a fragmented market, a regulatoryly inconsistent market, a market where the rapidly growing digital market in the world will have difficulties in its full development. This is one of the invaluable and untapped potentials of the Community market, in addition to the market for services, which should be addressed in an appropriate legislative manner. Many legislative proposals have been waiting too long to be properly considered. And it will be a matter of persistent pressure from Poland to speed things up. At the same time, when we returned to energy issues, we assumed that negotiations could be made with the Russian Federation on the legal regime that should be governed by the initiative, Nord Stream investment 2. From a Polish point of view, we cannot rule out that an international agreement that would define a legal regime for this investment could be a helpful instrument. However, the objective of this agreement can only be to fully implement the EU legal order. The international agreement cannot be a gateway to the fact that, in line with the intentions of certain countries and institutions, this investment enjoys advantages on the Community market in the form of de facto exemptions from the rules to which all investors in the energy infrastructure market are subject. This case is ongoing, but it started then and I think it should be at the centre of Polish policy as long as it is agreed. In the area of social policy, I have already mentioned one extremely unsuccessful initiative - an initiative of the Posting of Labour Directive, which is actually trying to adapt the Community market to the needs of only one small group of countries, those countries which are having problems with their competitiveness in the service market, those countries which are also having internal problems with the necessary reforms. This is a very bad example of the adaptation of the Union, of the reform of the Union, which is somewhat needed, of the adaptation that is moving towards only to meet the needs of a certain group of countries, if not to say, one country in the European Union. In the case of social policy, a much broader issue was the start of work on the interinstitutional proclamation on the pillar, the European Pillar of Social Rights. This office, as you are well aware, is extremely attached to social solidarity and has proved this by many decisions, including this House, of a very measurable nature, also of a budgetary nature. This is not a distant subject. On the other hand, we do not see any grounds to activate the European Union's social policy legislation. Member States have a very defined, often inherited social policy system for decades, which corresponds to their own ideas of social solidarity, which meets their own social needs. We do not see the basis for the European Pillar of Social Rights as a substitute legal basis for the legislative activation of the European Commission, which unfortunately can be expected from the European Commission. Therefore, ongoing work on interinstitutional proclamation from a Polish point of view will focus not only on the wording of this proclamation, but also on the institutional role and legal role that this proclamation could possibly play. Another important aspect from a Polish point of view, which at that time played a role, which is gaining momentum today - perhaps it is in the course of final agreements - is of course the issue of security. Europe rightly pointed out that, as we adapt to the new challenges, we should, as the European Union and as Europe, do more for our security, because our security is today - in different parts of the Union in different ways, but unprecedentedly - at risk. Our security hasn't been as much a question mark as it is today because of what's going on in the South and what's going on in the East. So there are good reasons for the European Union to do more about security than it has done so far. A very good background, the context for such an activation of the European Union in the field of security, is the NATO agreement between the European Union and NATO at the NATO Summit, which assumes that synergies and cooperation with NATO will be the basis for building a European identity in the field of security and defence, rather than building initiatives alongside or, worse still, initiatives which would have a conflict vector in view of this fundamental framework of security of the West, of course NATO. Poland stressed this aspect in the political discussion, also at the European Council summits, but this is not the only criterion by which we look at the development of the European Union's security and defence policy. These two additional criteria are the need to maintain a geostrategic balance, as well as the availability, full and equal availability of financial resources, support for industrial policy, defence industry for all those who want to further develop the defence industry, and Poland to such countries certainly belongs. Turning to the question of geostrategic balance, I would like to stress that the very fact that we are building some policy on the basis of common resources, in this case defence policy, is not a value in itself. The value of this policy is whether it responds equally to all the risks that Member States feel in an uneven and very diverse way. The geostrategic situation of the Mediterranean countries is fundamentally different from the geostrategic situation of the countries of our part of Europe and we expect the policy that will be built on the basis of our common resources to respond equally to the threats that the European Union or Europe is experiencing today as such. The last aspect of the regular agenda of this Presidency, which I would like to draw attention to, because here too our paths with Malta are intersecting, is the issue of the neighbourhood policy. The neighbourhood policy, as it had been thought before, is experiencing a huge crisis not because of its own dysfunctions - although there are probably many things that could be done better here - but because of the very negative developments in our neighbourhood: and in the South, and in the East. For various reasons, the countries covered by the neighbourhood policy have not been able or unable to fully meet the expectations they themselves had in relation to the European Union's neighbourhood policy, nor are they able to meet the European expectations for them. Most often it is not their own merit. Most often it is a question of external interference. The most clear example of this is, of course, Ukraine, which, along with its promotion, along with its progress on the European road under the logic of the neighbourhood policy, has been the subject of increasingly aggressive behaviour of the Russian Federation, which did not hide that it was taking on the neighbourhood policy, a very soft, mild and peaceful European Union policy, as a confrontation policy against its own unjustified expectations for this part of Europe. Like Malta, we expect the European Union's neighbourhood policy to be adapted to these new conditions and to respond to the experiences we have gathered in recent years. This means that instruments need to be differentiated within the framework of the neighbourhood policy, it should be noted that the Member States covered by the neighbourhood policy are in very different positions today, and that they also have very different expectations. Countries that are willing to move forward on the European road should have such an offer. Countries which, like Ukraine and Georgia, have come a very long and painful way - a path that is difficult also for internal policy - and have come to the stage of not only the introduction of visa-free movement, but also the signing of association agreements, the signing of free trade agreements - should be able to expect more today, should meet with a proportionate response from the European Union. Their European aspirations should not be extinguished because they have already paid a huge price for it today. I would like to mention at the very end of this speech, this relationship, this information, two issues which were not directly related to the agenda of the Maltese Presidency, but were very important and took place during its duration. The first of these cases is, of course, the Brexit notification, the notification of the intention to leave the UK from the European Union. This happened exactly halfway through this Presidency. This notification resulted in a very rapid response from the European Council, which prepared a recommendation, and a very rapid response from the European Commission, which prepared an appropriate mandate, in line with the recommendations, which fulfils all Polish expectations of this process. With these expectations, of course, the rights of our citizens today and tomorrow, as soon as the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, play a key role. Their protection must be detailed, must have a very strong legal basis, international law and must have institutional guarantees of compliance with this agreement in the future, even in the distant future. This is the subject of advanced discussions today, in which we can talk about very far-reaching progress. It's about the union-British talks. The second important, no less important, is, of course, the financial clearance. This settlement does not apply to any future scenarios, nor does it apply to any UK punishment for a sovereign decision in the end. On the other hand, it concerns all commitments that have grown in the course of the long-term long-term membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union. But this is not the end of the list of Polish expectations when it comes to Brexit. Poland is equally determined and equally interested in ensuring that the UK's future relations with the European Union are as close as possible. This lies in our best interest in Poland and, I think, in Europe, that Brexit is not a negative scenario, it is not a scenario of pushing Britain away from all those things that we can do together, apart from membership. Most of our international trade, security as external as well as internal security challenges remain with us regardless of whether the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union or whether it ceases to be a member of the European Union. This is the reason why Poland retains its offensive position not only in terms of what is a matter of the past, which is a matter of UK membership, which is a question of the necessary settlement of this departure of roads, but also about the future, as far as possible ambitious, as close cooperation in all possible areas that will bring mutual benefits to the parties. The second point I wanted to draw attention to, of course, is the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. This was a very good opportunity for the Heads of Government to draw attention to what has so far happened in the field of European integration. This story was not entirely the history of Poland, but it is our heritage. In this case the Polish voice sounded very strongly. We have stressed in this past how the internal market, its integrity and the market, which is supposed to be the most sustainable, sustainable achievement of the integration process, play a crucial role. We have drawn attention to the need, in particular in view of the migration crisis, the preservation of Schengen integrity and heritage, the functionality of the Schengen area, which today does not work to the same extent, as well as efficiently on each section. Here Poland is an example of a country where there is no disturbance in this respect, but not far from here, in our part of Europe, the Schengen system has encountered significant dysfunctions. And the third point that we have highlighted so far is the obvious success of enlargement. The enlargement, and in particular the largest enlargements, which moved the European Union's external border far east from the point of view of Lisbon, Paris or even Berlin, was a huge success of integration. The future can be built on this success. Of course, the work on the 60-year declaration of the Treaties of Rome was not limited to a summary of the past. It was and remains a very hot time, so they were largely turned to the future. What we wanted to achieve, what we wanted to draw attention to on this occasion, is not only building on what is an obvious success of integration, enlargement, the common market or Schengen, but also wanting to point out that none of the European problems will be overcome, will not be resolved by any division, that the institutional division of the European Union, although possible and perhaps for some is even a comfortable perspective, will not solve any of our common problems. On the contrary, it will bring new problems. Europe will simply be weaker by division, so it will be less, less effectively defending its security interests, its market interests, its commercial interests, economic, political interests, whatever. There is no case in history that a smaller institution is more influential. And this is the thing that, I think, most strongly sounded at that time and remains valid because the success of adopting a common - I think it is satisfying for everyone to the same extent - a declaration related to the 60-year Treaty of Rome unfortunately does not close the issue of uncertainty about the future of the European Union. But this matter is ahead of us and will probably come back on the occasion of further government information on the next European Union Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u385	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Konrad Głębocki to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u386	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present our position regarding the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017. I will start with a few selected issues - selected, necessarily because I have 10 minutes - and then I will address two issues concerning the future of the European Union, two events, the anniversary of the Treaties of Rome and the publication of a White Paper on the future of the European Union. In March 2017, the United Kingdom implemented the standard resulting from the Article. 50 of the Treaty on European Union, i.e. it has launched a process of European Union presence. During the Maltese Presidency, the Polish government rightly put two priorities: firstly, to guarantee the rights of Polish citizens in the UK, and secondly, to fulfil financial commitments, in particular concerning this financial perspective. In the UK there are 1 million Polish citizens, and a total of 3 million citizens of the European Union, but it is also worth remembering that in the European Union there is a permanent residence of 1 million British citizens. So these are the arrangements that will be mutually binding. And financial issues are also extremely important to us. The idea is that the structural funds for Poland should not be limited in the current financial period. The Maltese Presidency has identified migration as one of its main priorities. In February 2017, an informal meeting of Heads of State and Government took place during which the Maltese Declaration was adopted. In order to address the problems on the main Mediterranean glass, it was proposed, among others. cooperation with Libya and in general the countries of North Africa as well as Sub-Saharan Africa. It therefore appears that the reflection in the European Union is slowly growing, that there should be no automatic relocation of refugees or, in fact, migrants between Member States, and precisely border protection, the issue of assistance in third countries, in the foreground. Even when the Law and Justice were in opposition, in September 2015 President Jarosław Kaczyński spoke about the fact that migrants need to be helped in third countries, that the safety of our citizens is the most important thing, that we should implement the Christian principle of ordo caritatis, or order of mercy. Of course, we need to protect them. the external borders of the European Union. If the Civic Platform with the Polish People's Party were to rule today, we would already have thousands of migrants in Poland, a threat to Muslim migrants in the vast majority and a threat to the security of our citizens. [[Ordo caritatis.]] [[I think you should say the rosary on the border.]] [[The rosary...]] [[Mirabelles.]] A mechanism for automatic relocation of migrants would probably also be put in place, because you always wanted to flow in the mainstream, and probably also in this respect you would respond to the mainstream that wanted it to be, the automatic relocation mechanism. The Polish government's efforts to strengthen the European single market and to counter the protectionist tendencies of individual countries, including those that use the slogan of social dumping, i.e. alleged social dumping, should be positively assessed. A few words about the directive on posted workers to perform services... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Don't wave your hand, Private.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u387	Mr President, please take your seat. [[The Jenot is waving his hand, Marshal.]] [[Sit down, Stefan.]] Mr President, please take your seat. [[I'm sorry, but I'm afraid of raccoons.]] If you sit in your seat, it'll be pretty far away, so sit down. [[But don't let the raccoon wave his hand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u388	Would you mind if I didn't disturb you? Then there's time for... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Because I'm going to compare you to jellyfish...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr Tarczynski, please keep your voice down.]] [[Your marshal, until Mr. Shieldinski was here, this debate...]] Can your marshal handle the situation in the courtroom?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Young people are looking at these proceedings in the Parliament hall, so perhaps for this reason at least please calm your emotions and let the Member finish. You'll have time to comment on this speech. Now you are continuing, and you are also listening calmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u390	Poland supports all solutions that serve the development of the single market, because this market, this construction, is not yet complete. Therefore, e.g. The e-card for service providers on the EU market is extremely important and the Polish government is very much involved here, has been involved during the Maltese Presidency. It is also important to abolish roaming at the end of the Maltese Presidency in June 2017. Poland has supported this solution from the beginning. With regard to energy policy, it is difficult to agree with all of what has been presented in the Winter Package. First of all, it is difficult to agree with the 550 g CO2 threshold for the production of kWh of energy, as this will long-term eliminate coal production. This would be extremely unfavorable for Poland. During the Maltese Presidency, issues were also raised concerning the mechanism for effective energy solidarity and transparency of gas agreements. It is, of course, in the interest of Poland that these agreements should be implemented in this respect. This is where the efforts of the Maltese Presidency and the action of the Polish Government on this issue should be appreciated. Finally, a few comments, in a very short way, on the future of the European Union. First of all, with regard to the Roman Declaration on the 60th anniversary of the Treaty, this is primarily about the basic Treaty on the European Economic Community concluded on 25 March 1967. - it was Poland that managed to conclude in this declaration, to modify its text in such a way as to make a few important issues sound there. I would like to draw attention to one fundamental point, that is, that at the request of Poland in the Roman declaration there is a provision about the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the Union, that this role should be increased. I think this is a very good direction. In my opinion, this cannot be done without opening the Treaties. We know that more and more countries are talking about the need for treaty changes. This would be an opportunity, among others. to introduce rules whereby national parliaments would have a real role in the decision-making process, not the absolute facade that is today under the Treaty of Lisbon. Because today, the European Commission, a body without direct democratic legitimacy or without democratic legitimacy, can throw it in the basket, and that is what the European Commission does. on posted workers for the provision of services. It can throw in a basket the reasoned opinions of a dozen national Parliaments. This, in my opinion, is a humiliating position from the point of view of national parliaments. It would be necessary to achieve real functions, the real competences of national Parliaments in decision-making, both in terms of initiative and perhaps in terms of blocking decisions. This has nothing to do with liberum veto. This is completely different if a large part of national Parliaments, not one Member, as was the case with veto liberum, can block a proposal which, from the point of view of national Parliaments, would be inappropriate when it comes to EU legislation. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of the information provided by the government on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. during the Maltese Presidency. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u391	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When assessing the participation of the Government of the Republic of Poland in the work of the Maltese Presidency, we are reviewing a certain policy of the European Government of Law and Justice. We have repeatedly spoken from this speaker as representatives of the opposition about marginalising the role of the Republic of Poland in the European Union, about breaking the rule of law, about the fact that the Government of Law and Justice does not have a serious dialogue with the EU institutions, about dismantleing Polish diplomacy, about the lack of allies, about restricting itself to dreams, about building the Intermarine instead of building a real European policy based on effective defence of the Polish state. I would like to ask you very specific questions about the European policy pursued during the Maltese Presidency. How successful can you boast about the impact on the European agenda, the Minister and the Government of Law and Justice? It was supposed to be better. It was supposed to be more efficient. You were supposed to put the state on the European agenda in an effective way and implement the Polish priorities better than the Civic Platform government. Contrary to propaganda, because you have devoted a lot of time to migration, we all know that when it comes to strengthening external borders and opposition to permanent mathematical mechanisms, exactly what the previous government did. I want to ask you about these successes, because apart from cybersecurity and the inclusion of hybrid threats in the challenges facing the Union, I do not see these many successes. The first question about the budget, because negotiations are starting. What progress is there in negotiating and preparing the future budget? Unfortunately, your colleagues prefer to talk about reparations rather than specific issues that are currently being discussed in the European Union. Can you assure us that this next budget will be generous, that he will implement Polish priorities, that there will be no dismantling of cohesion policy? Another issue is an institutional issue. Above our heads, above the heads of your government, there are great Member States who are starting to talk about institutional reform. Poland is unfortunately not involved. Can you guarantee that there will be no fragmentation of the European Union in your governments, a close kernel with separate institutions? The next issue is posted workers, which you mentioned. We've managed to stop the bad ideas going this way. The question is, can you guarantee us that these ideas, these decisions that are now on the table, will not come into force. They are even worse, because the French offer solutions much less effective, much less effective from the point of view of the Polish interest. Are you able to build an effective coalition like we are? Did we do that to block these solutions? The next line is Brexit. Are you able to guarantee that the rights of our employees will certainly be guaranteed? Foreign and defence policy, we talked about this today. How do you want to participate in a credible defence policy if you are not involved in building European defence capabilities and do not participate in European programmes that change and strengthen the development of a separate economic potential in this area? Can you guarantee that you will benefit from the European Defence Fund? After all, there are very specific conditions for participation in these projects. Neighbourhood policy, we talked about this in the European Union's Committee on Affairs. I made it clear that we put this as a priority for the European Union. We were able to negotiate more money for this policy. All the successes of the neighbourhood policy - from the free trade zone to the association agreements, through visa liberalisation - are successes that have been achieved thanks to the 8 years of the Civic Platform's governance at the very beginning of your office. Are you able to guarantee that there will be a lot of money for Eastern policy, that there will be a very ambitious language in the partnership summit declaration? After all, you said that in these cases you would do it much better than us, in a much more effective way. Finally, the question of energy policy, which is what you specialize in. The gas market. We have a PGNiG monopoly. You've driven all the other companies out of the market. We really have a rolling market, which translates into rising energy prices. As far as calls to the South are concerned, you've dropped Stork 2. It costs us 60 million unused EU money. I don't know what the Visegrad Group said. You lost the fuel battle, you're pretty passive, generally speaking, when it comes to Nord Stream. The question is whether you will guarantee that this project will not be implemented because you promised it. You said we weren't able to do that, that you guys would definitely block it. Those were the promises. Climate policy. Emissions trading is now changing to a disadvantage of the Polish budget. The main demand of your government colleagues is to give more to our energy from our budget. It is not surprising that the European Commission has agreed to this because it is not their money. On the other hand, they took away our permits for large industrial companies, which were the key solution that we negotiated, which Minister Szyszko recently praised. The question is, which way are you going when it comes to climate policy? I only see Minister Szyszko, who says he will capture CO2 using our forests, which he cuts with great enthusiasm. So what's it gonna be like with climate policy? It was meant to be, Minister, more sovereign, more efficient... [[That's not true.]] ...more ambitious, more professional. That's what you said about politics. I particularly value the Minister, the Minister knows it well, but unfortunately your boss and the entire European government are completely decomposing European politics. You don't meet your priorities, you lose all important battalions, you don't build efficient coalitions, you don't have anything new to propose. What new proposals have you proposed to Europe, what constructive proposals? Unfortunately, this debate is usually limited only to insinuating that someone is working for the Polish business and someone was working for another business. Let's focus on priorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u393	Thank you very much. The remaining time will be used by Mr Sławomir Nitras, also by the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u394	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to draw your attention. - I will tell you this again and I would like to remember that - that we are not here debating the priorities of the Maltese Presidency or talking about Malta and the role of Malta. We are talking about half a year in the Union and activity, the participation of the Polish government in the work in the European Union. This is the subject of debate, and remember that, talk about what you are doing, not what the Maltese are doing. This is a key issue. This is our only chance when we talk about our EU strategy in the Sejm. Minister! Your voice... I value you as much as Rafał Trzaskowski, although not as much as Rafał Trzaskowski, but as much as Rafał Trzaskowski, and I would like to say to you: you serve a bad cause, you are trying to prove to us that the government, which prides itself on its isolationism, emphasizes a certain national character, unwilling to participate in Community action, which questions the community or the Community's way of making decisions in the European Union, which questions the integration ideas of the European Union and at the same time tries to prove to us that its European strategy is based on the fight for communityality... You say, "Well, how?" After all, we defend the common market, common values. You can't do that. These values must be respected. You can't point fingers at others if you're not just perfect yourself, but you're still the leader in breaking up Community attitudes in the European Union and Community policy in the Union. A leader. You can't do that kind of politics. And it's not a matter of convincing you. This is a matter of how serious things are, and you're trying to tell us that you're gonna do this trick. It's just not gonna work. It is not a matter of failure of your policy, it is a matter of our strategic interests. It's a key thing. The most interesting thing about what you said was what you didn't say. Did you ever imagine that after what happened in six months, you didn't mention anything about the art procedure? Seven? The European Commission has debated this issue concerning Poland. [[So what? She was debating.]] The European Parliament has supported the European Commission, which announces the initiation of the Article procedure. 7. Not to you, but to you, Members of the PiS, maybe I can tell you what this article is about. [[But what does that have to do with...]] Upon a reasoned request from 1/3 Member States, the European Parliament or the European Commission, the Council, representing a majority of 4/5 of its members, will not help you - after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament, it may conclude that there is a clear risk that a Member State will seriously breach the values referred to in Article. 2. Listen up, guys. in the European Union, this is discussed. The European Parliament, where we are also, has supported the European Commission. We're threatened to initiate this procedure. It will be the shame and insubordination of Poland. Laugh at me because you don't understand what you're doing to Poland. It's really threatening us. [[You're being silly.]] Could you, Minister, when you came to the Polish Sejm, not mention this issue? You have the right to your assessment, but how could you, speaking of this six-month period, when all this was happening, just not to mention it, just to tell us how Malta solves its migratory problems, our common, European, not its own. Minister! Could you not mention the issue of the Białowieża Forest, the judgment of the Court, the decisions of the European institution? And you come, you say, you talk about six months, and you don't mention it. There's no line? Are we ostrich? We hide our head under the seat and there's no line? This is the role of Poland, this is our policy in the European Union. The Roman Declaration - you're proud of it. The idiotic one - I'm not scared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the word used - the provocation of Prime Minister Szydło, who, the day before the declaration, threatened that we would not sign anything unless Polish postulates were written... People looked like weird people. Where did you come from? What's the point of this demonstration? That also weakens our position. Minister! If you want to be taken seriously, you take this debate seriously and you take this House seriously, you cannot tell us such things here and you can tell us the generals with which we all agree. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u395	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for presenting the information, Minister. I would like to highlight a few things that I agree with, but which concern me and on which I would like to ask questions. I'll start with defense policy. If we welcome NATO to the conference in Warsaw, if at every point we stress that our strategic partner in NATO is the United States and, at the same time, in Europe, there are plans in the European Commission, projects on the basis of which the future forces, the European Union's army, are to be built, I believe that this is detrimental to our sovereignty, detrimental to the security of our country. There is a concrete example, because we can say here about Eurocorp in Strasbourg and also about the European Defence Fund. It is good that in the declaration that we had in the Treaty of Rome, we talked about the importance of defence, that competitiveness is important, but I think we should defend it and stress during each Presidency that our defence guarantee is NATO. All actions should be complementary to this strategic direction, which will protect our borders. So it seems to me that this defence concerns us to a very large extent, and we should place a great deal of emphasis on this action. There is no previous speaker of mine in the Chamber now, but if we are talking about responsibility, if we are talking about the future nature of the European Union, we are fighting for its shape, and if the European Union, the European Commission is not modernising, if our economy in Europe is backwards towards economies on the globe, if democratic European Parliaments, the nations have a small impact on the decisions that are taking place in Brussels, then let us not be surprised that the free British people have come out of the European Union. This is the red light for this philosophy that represented my two previous speakers. So I reached the point of Brexit myself. He began during the Maltese Presidency, and it is good that you, Minister, have referred to it. It's important here that we keep an eye on our business. I think that by the end of this term we will often return to this point. Migration. This is already a total embarrassment of the European Commission's policy, especially Mrs Merkel. Did this Presidency solve this? We have responded to many points, in many points of the debate this problem has returned. It is good that we strongly emphasized that the relocation system should not be based on coercion. It is good that we have shown how harmful it is for Europe, for our security, also for Poland. What is good, what we stress, is that we have established to start working on a common European asylum system. These are good solutions that should protect our borders. After all, our eastern border is the external border of the European Union. This is the right direction. We, as the Kukiz club15, will be in favour of this information. We believe that our diplomacy has taken good care of our Polish interests, and we believe that any steps that lead to us expanding the influence of national states, European parliaments, our parliament on decisions that are taking place in the European Union, in the European Commission, will influence the democratisation of this mechanism. We want a united Europe, but a Europe in which we will have a real impact on decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u397	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, Mr Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club in relation to the information submitted by the government about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017, i.e. during the Presidency of Malta in the Council of the European Union. A number of important events have taken place during the Maltese Presidency, which are worth mentioning. Firstly, I would like to point out that this was a halfway point for the institutional cycle, both the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission. Second, the United Kingdom pursuant to Article. 50 formally launched the process of exiting the European Union. Finally, thirdly, and as has already been said many times today, we have celebrated the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. An important element of this summit in Rome was the signing of a joint Roman declaration. This is an important signal to the citizens of the European Community, indicating the unity of the European Union. An important message of this declaration is the opening up of the Union to new countries and indicating the directions for its development. But it wasn't always that nice. For us Poles, the period of the Maltese Presidency will probably be remembered forever because of the symbolic defeat of 27:1 in the election of the President of the European Council. It was a disgrace of Polish diplomacy. Halfway through the institutional cycle of the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission is also a time when many ideas have emerged. A White Paper on the future of Europe was published by the European Commission on 1 March 2017. It proposes five potential scenarios which set out guidelines for the possible evolution of the European Union by 2025. I think that the proposals written in the White Paper were coolly accepted by the government of the Republic of Poland. As can be concluded, the government refuses the right of the European Commission to present scenarios for the future of the European Union, recognising this as a domain of the Member States. Even if this is the right approach, we expect the Polish government to be active, which should put forward proposals for the future of the European Union on the European agenda and draw up such proposals with us. Today we observe a kind of isolation of the Polish government. Even the Visegrad Group countries often have a different opinion from Poland. Today we expect to be actively involved in the debate on the future of the European Union and to develop concrete solutions to address the current crisis in the European Union as well. Britain's exit from the European Union. Of course, this is a sovereign decision by the British who themselves decided to leave the European Community. I would like to remind you that, when involving governments in Poland, the Government of Law and Justice recognised Great Britain as its most important partner in the European Union. I also welcome the Minister's statement that the strategy adopted for the UK exit negotiations takes Polish interest into account. Of course, we will check over time whether this is really the case, whether the interests of our citizens who live in the UK have been secured or whether the financial settlement issues will finally take into account all the claims of the European party. As Poles who benefit from the European budget, we are also interested in the impact on the European budget and the Polish contribution on the UK's exit from the European Union. For each of us is wondering what the European Union will look like after Brexit. A few words on the Maltese Presidency. Malta has chosen six priority areas for its presidency: the single market, migration, security, neighbourhood, social inclusion and maritime policy. It is always that these are proposals that are pointed out by the country that has taken the lead, and not always every area is so important, important for other Member States. With regard to the internal market, it is certainly one element that each Pole will feel is the abolition of roaming charges. This is undoubtedly a very important element. Here we have to say that Mrs. Róża Thun worked very hard in the Commission on this. This is an element that will be important for every Pole who uses phone calls on a daily basis. As far as Nord Stream is concerned, we'll see what the finale is. The following topics concern the revision of the Directive in order to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments and, of course, the impact on the Polish energy sector. Migration is undoubtedly a key topic for Malta, for countries from the south of Europe, which Poland is trying not to notice. The Maltese declaration adopted concerns how the central Mediterranean route works, where these problems are the greatest. We consider it reasonable to increase cooperation with Libya and the countries of North Africa. As the best summary of actions in this area, let me quote the words of the Maltese ambassador at the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, which said this: It is important to remember that countries such as ours, Malta, which lies in the periphery of Europe, are experiencing a lack of effective solidarity in the European Union. Our citizens feel that the European Union is failing in this regard. This is a common feeling, especially for Europeans living in the south. Security is another priority for the Maltese Presidency. In this respect, the key elements are: strengthening cooperation with the European External Action Service, countering terrorism and establishing an EU entry and exit system, as well as issues related to strengthening European defence policy and Poland's structural cooperation. We will see how the Polish arms industry will benefit from the European Defence Fund, which is being launched and in which the funds are earmarked. I regret that in this debate, which was not so long ago in Krakow, where Commissioner Bieńkowska presented these elements, there was no representative of the Polish government. With regard to social inclusion, the question of the directive on posted workers is undoubtedly a key element. This is the most important issue for Poland. Over a quarter are Poles. Accepting the proposed solutions would be extremely unfavorable for Poland. As you know, this topic has not been completed. We continue to see with concern movements aimed at pushing through negative solutions, convincing countries which so far presented a position similar to the Polish one. The modern one watches this situation with concern and is concerned about the omission of Poland in this discussion. As you know, the absent are wrong. Let's hope it doesn't. Poland's participation. In the neighbourhood policy, the most important issue is undoubtedly to allow visa-free travel within the European Union for the citizens of Georgia and Ukraine, and of course the Eastern Partnership. A very important element in this regard must take into account our immediate environment. This environment is constantly, I would say, boiling, both in eastern Ukraine, Syria, Libya and in the Middle East. The whole aspect of the terrorist threat is still a very important element. To sum up, the Modern Reviews of the Polish Government's actions during the Maltese Presidency. We will always remember the 27:1 result with which Prime Minister Beata Szydło returned to Poland after choosing Donald Tusk as President of the European Council for the second term. This result is more than that, it is a kind of symbol showing the loneliness of the Polish government in Europe, where it is becoming increasingly difficult to find allies in the implementation of their priorities. As I have already mentioned, the Maltese Presidency has had an exceptional period: the election of the President, Brexit and the migration crisis. Unfortunately, Poland failed the exam, failed and compromised itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u399	Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the 27th half-yearly report on Poland's participation in the work of the European Union during the next Presidency. The first part brings closer the progress and achievements of the Maltese Presidency, its priorities and key issues from the point of view of our country's interests. The Maltese Presidency faces three main tasks: maritime policy, the Mediterranean, migration. In addition to these three main points, we have also been working on topics that have complemented the priorities that have just been mentioned. During the Maltese Presidency, the problems of migration, the internal market, security, neighbouring policy and maritime policy were bowed down. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom notified its intention to leave the European Union. At the moment, the government should discuss and negotiate more strongly on citizens' rights, financial clearance and other issues related to Brexit. Poland needs to take better care also about their citizens living and working in the UK. It is therefore important to draw attention to agreeing important issues for our fellow countrymen regarding the guarantee of access to the labour market, education, health services and social security. Poland should also support what is contained in the negotiating directives - the fact that the United Kingdom will be obliged to comply financially with all the declarations resulting from its membership of the European Union. Migration is becoming a common problem. The Maltese Presidency sought solutions to this problem, which concerns almost all of Europe. The idea of reducing the influx of irregular migrants into the Member States of the European Union is to strengthen cooperation with Libya, North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. This idea is good as a vision to deal with this increasingly serious problem. This issue needs to be addressed at the root and by supporting the development of asylum systems in transit countries through migrants. The illegal influx of migrants, which has been observed for many years, is forcing work on the security of European Community citizens. The priority was to strengthen cooperation with the European External Action Service, to counter terrorism and to establish an EU system for the entry and exit of third-country nationals, and to establish a European travel information system and travel permits. A call must be made for the development of security policy to be based on the principle of strategic balance. This is aimed at ensuring safety in the face of threats from both the south and the east. The flow of information relevant to the security of European Union citizens needs to be strengthened and improved. Poland also stresses this in order to bring about the sustainable development of the defence industry of the Member States. Our security depends on the functioning of the Union's external borders, our country is one of its members. In the past six months, provisions have been introduced which have amended the Schengen Borders Code and, as a result, all travellers have been subject to mandatory systematic security controls at the external borders of the Union. If we look at the social situation, the main theme was the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services. The work has been carried out under too much pressure from the European Commission and those Member States in favour of rapid changes in this area. In some ways, this made it impossible to clarify all the doubts and certain reservations that some Member States have raised, including Poland. The proposed solutions are unfavorable for us. The remuneration of posted workers and the limitation of posting over time may have consequences in the form of eliminating Polish entrepreneurs from the markets of the Member States of the European Union. It seems that the government has simply failed and continues to fail with regard to this subject. In the area of neighbourhood policy, Poland has made efforts to ensure that the European Neighbourhood Policy takes into account the diversity of the needs of the various partners and follows in this direction in its next steps. There are conflicts in the immediate vicinity of the European Union, which are a key problem for trying to find a solution. Strategic communication and hybrid threats should be given great importance. One of the reasons for such a state of affairs, such as instability in Eastern Europe, is also the aggressive policy of Russia. The focus areas are eastern Ukraine, Syria, Libya and the Middle East. We must not forget the continuing threat of terrorist attacks. It is good that the Visa-Free Movement Regulations have entered into force in the European Union for the citizens of Georgia and Ukraine. The activities carried out by the Maltese Presidency to involve the European Union in the work of the World Tourism Organisation on a document on the protection of tourists and the rights and obligations of tourism service providers should be welcomed. The geographical location of Malta has led to the so-called theme. Blue height. It has been pointed out that sea and ocean waters are a driving force for the European economy and have great potential for development. Activities focused on improving international ocean governance. Seas and oceans must be used more as renewable energy sources. Measures to protect the Baltic Sea should also be supported. It is good that the National Marine Water Protection Programme has been prepared. It is a strategic document that aims to carry out such activities to achieve good seawater status. As regards maritime protection, a document was adopted at the meeting of the Baltic Marine Environment Committee, which sets out the existing activities of the States Parties to protect marine and coastal ecosystems. The Polish People's Party looks with great concern at tense relations between Poland and neighbouring countries, with Germany and France. These relations, Minister, should be improved immediately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u401	I ask Mr Stefan Niesiołowski to speak on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the Union of European Democrats, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, calls for the rejection of this information from a government which is not acceptable, contains a number of clichés and generals, such as: the digital market, the power market, the capital groups, and where it is factual, either it is false, or it proposes false and very bad solutions for Poland. I don't agree, I'm sorry... My colleagues expressed some appreciation for Mr Szymanski. I don't see anything good that Mr Szymański is doing for Poland. He certainly knows that there is no such state as San Escobar. But it is not enough and nothing, I say it again, unfortunately nothing stands out, it is not different from the PiS government in whose name he speaks here, and for no words of appreciation, unfortunately, I say it with regret, he does not deserve it. This is a government which, in its internal policy, assembles a monoparty dictatorship towards the European Union, actually presents some creeping Brexit, proposes a way out, de facto works for the exit of Poland from the Union, hates the Union, fights the Union and repeatedly shows hostility towards the European Union. This report is trying to hide this reality, and that's why it's being lied to. Here you go, a few simple facts. Supported by this government, tolerated and benevolent are environments hostile to the Union, an environment of political hooligans, an environment of nationalists, people who beat foreigners who burn EU flags who publicly demonstrate anti-Semitism and boast about it. Unfortunately, these environments do not meet with any government contract, they are supported and tolerated. There are a number of statements by Mr Błaszczak, etc., which show that the government understands these people, to put it mildly. The European Union was created as a response to wars and conflicts of nationalism and the horrible crimes of nationalism during World War II. If someone raises his hand in Poland today... I do not distinguish these subtleties - the Roman salute, this raising of hands in Poland is associated as bad as possible, is associated with Hitlerism. If someone raises his hand in such a way or tolerates such gestures, he is either an idiot or a criminal. And this is a government that tolerates this kind of behavior. We have allies, ladies and gentlemen, we have allies of the government. Well, these are allies, this is Brexit, this is Mr Trump, this is Orbán, these are hostile people and these are very hostile environments of the European Union. We hear of solutions to be there - what hypocrisy - where refugees are created, where refugees are born, where there are conflicts, where there is help. So how does the government help? How much money? Why didn't you give me the numbers? How much money did you spend on refugee camps in Syria, Lebanon, Libya, and how much money do you give to Toruń propaganda center and one Toruń businessman? How much money do you give to propaganda, to billboard scandals, to propaganda events, to Smolensk propaganda, to all the propaganda of the PiS of our money? Talking about the Polish government helping refugees on the ground is just a lie. The Polish government hates refugees and makes refugees a bargaining card for internal political struggle, and using the rosary is disgusting. The rosary is a symbol of love. Does Mr. Kaczyński already have a new version of the Sermon on the mountain that he forgave at least two blessings? It's a show. This performance of the use of the Church, the Rosary, prayer for political warfare is a disgrace, and this disgrace belongs to the PiS. [[I protest, Marshal. I protest, sir.]] Don't hit the desk, don't wave your hand, 'cause the lies won't stun you, because the lies of PiS won't stun you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u403	Madame, I draw your attention to inappropriate behaviour. Please don't smash...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u404	There is no, ladies and gentlemen, there is no consent to action, there is no consent to the statements of the actual head of this government, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] because it is not Mrs Szydło, who does not know when Poland joined the European Union... [[Are you a professor? You should get off the stand.]] ...who is the head of this government said: if Poland is left alone, then it will stay, then it will stay. These are actions detrimental to Poland. This speech masks these actions in a bad, inept way, that was Mr Szymański's speech and therefore he is voting against this report near the European Union of Democrats. We expect - and yet the last sentence [[♪ The bell ♪]] - from the Union more decisive efforts to restore democracy in Poland. And these are not actions against Poland, they are actions against PiS-Polish domination over Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u405	Thank you. I would like to remind Members of the Law and Justice Members that, when speaking to the Member who presented the position of Law and Justice, he demanded that other Members be advised to remain silent in the Chamber. Therefore, I would ask you very much, since the Member has requested this, to apply the same rule to others. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017, during the Maltese Presidency. The first half of 2017 was not an easy period for the Community as a whole, nor for individual Member States. The UK's decision to leave the European Union, migration problems and increasing terrorist threats are the challenges that Member States had to face first. It should be noted with satisfaction that the voice of Poland during this period became strongly audible and had an objective impact on the international situation. First of all, recognition of Poland's consistent position on migration problems should be appreciated, which not only ensured security in our country, but also strengthened the Polish economy. Foreign entities are more and more willing to choose Poland as a place for business activity. Even JP Morgan, one of the largest banks in the world, decided to open its headquarters. According to Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the decision to place the bank's seat in our country is a proof of confidence in the Polish economy. [[It's not the bank's headquarters. It's the bank's branch.]] The headquarters department. Yes, of course, sir. The agreement to an uncontrolled influx of immigrants would certainly reverse this trend, undermine citizens' sense of security and create a real threat. The irresponsible immigration policy of Western European countries contributes to the emergence of terrorist threats, and in some cases makes it necessary, for example. in France, maintaining a state of emergency. The failure of the Polish government to agree to the forced relocation of refugees must be regarded as a correct and consistent position in accordance with the Polish state rations. We believe that the most effective form of aid for immigrants is the direct support of conflict regions. The benefits for the whole Schengen area have been brought by Poland's efforts to seal asylum procedures and to oppose the granting of excessive powers to the European Union Agency for Asylum. This entity was originally intended to be able to intervene in the Member States even without their consent. This would mean unjustified interference in the independence and sovereignty of individual countries. When assessing the actions of Poland within the European Union, we cannot ignore the efforts of our government to adopt favourable decisions in the field of climate policy for the Polish economy. The European Commission's efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at all costs, regardless of the energy specificities of the Member States, can have a negative impact on the Polish economy. Polish conventional power plants are taking a number of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but they are not able to achieve in a short time the indicators expected by the European Commission. It is therefore very important to adopt rational decisions at European Union level, taking into account the possibility of using natural resources held by individual countries. The Polish government is consistently aiming to adopt such regulations. Similarly, our country's efforts to take decisive action on the Russian-Ukrainian conflict should be positively assessed. The Polish government clearly indicated the negative impact of the existing situation on the stability of the Eastern European area. He also raised the need to resume strategic communication in connection with the increasing Russian propaganda towards the consistently led information war by the Kremlin, as the European Union remains practically passive. The European Union even supports some of President Vladimir Putin's actions, e.g. the gas pipeline case Nord Stream 2. Russia does not hide that the opening of this pipeline will result in the cessation of gas supply to Western Europe through the territory of Ukraine. Poland, the Baltic States and Ukraine oppose this project. It poses a threat to the energy security of these countries, especially Poland, because it can block the use of the gas terminal in Świnoujście due to the running bottom of the Baltic Sea pipeline Nord Stream 2. The German government supports the investment, claiming that the project is business rather than political. In the Swiss daily "Neue Zürcher Zeitung', German publicist Jörg Himmelreich explicitly stated that Nord Stream 2 was the absolute execution of German interests with complete disregard for the reservations of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the European Commission and EU law in force. It's hard to disagree with that opinion. The actions of the Polish government should be aimed at blocking this project. There is a great challenge for our country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the defence of historical truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u407	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u408	We must be more strongly opposed to disregarding and destroying Christian values, which are the foundation of European culture. We can't just quietly agree to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u409	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u410	Mr Nitras has extended by 30 seconds, your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u411	Finish up and let me continue the procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the actions of the Polish government during the Maltese Presidency. We will be in favour of the information submitted to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u413	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I refer to this report, I would like to refer to it, because it is impossible not to do so, but to the words which have just come from this speaker just now spoken by Mr Niesiołowski, words not only filthy in form but also deeply untrue in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, if you say that you cannot oppose the rosary in the hands of the Islamic invasion on Europe, the millions coming from the Middle East, Africa, to colonize our continent, then I will merely remind you that on 7 October the feast of Our Lady of the Rosary was established by the Pope to commemorate the Battle of Lepanto in 1571 where the Christian fleet led by Prince Juan de Austria defended [[Applause]] Europe before the Muslim invasion. To this memorial is the feast of Our Lady of the Rosary, a memorial of Europe's effective defence against Islamic Muslim invasion. So before Mr Niesiołowski starts throwing insults from the Seymary, let him read a little bit about history.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u415	Mr President, please move on to a specific subject, not to comment, because the representative of the government will respond to this. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u416	I'm getting to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today about half a year of Maltese Presidency in the European Union, what Poland has done, what it has not done, what is the situation in Europe. I will start with what was raining here, especially from the liberal part of the opposition, very often today from the speaker, i.e. the lost vote 27 to 1. I'll just remind you of one thing. Let me remind you that Poland did not have the opportunity to block Donald Tusk's choice by signing the Treaty of Lisbon. Unfortunately, the Treaty of Lisbon was signed by Lech Kaczyński and voted also by the votes of Law and Justice. What does this example tell us, and what does this case tell us? It tells us that such a state is in a state in which, unfortunately, the government's policy towards the European Union continues, simply does not pay off and in the long run is ineffective and brings losses. The talk today was about common values. My God, ladies and gentlemen, what common values with Western Europe plunged into multi-culti scales, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in the scales of admission of immigrants, the scales of degeneration of civilization, family, nation, homeland, the concepts of Christianity? What common values? Let us speak clearly and openly that we today in Poland, wider, in our part We are indeed the defenders of true civilization order in Europe. Let us speak loudly and speak openly for two reasons. Firstly, because any myth about the unity of the European Union is a matter unsaveable, aside from the fact that my group, the National Movement, simply insists that we go down the road Great Britain. Step out of the European Union. But it is not to maintain today this myth that we can between Lisbon and Warsaw or between Lisbon and Tallinn maintain some common system of values, because it does not exist, it does not function and does not function. Today, Western Europe, which will unfortunately be Euroarabia in most of the decades, is sinking, referring to the factors that will bring its failure in the coming decades. And we as Poland need to do two things. First of all, we must boldly begin to articulate our attachment to traditional values, to the traditional world of values. And we're not doing it. We do not do this together with the fact that last year the present government did not block prohomosexual solutions in the highest bodies of the European Union, in the United Nations, but it is another fairy tale. I mean, if we don't courageously lift up our civilization agenda, which our continent is able to save, or at least part of this continent, we're going to waste not only our chances of falling out as a state of faith and seriously on the international stage, but also some potential that exists in the West. And indeed, in these countries of the West, allies of countries such as Hungary and Poland can and are, above all, captors, traditionalists, and especially all those who want to overthrow the European Union as a supranational institution. That is why in Poland today what I am calling for in this debate is courage. Let us have the courage to say it clearly and definitely. If you are afraid to raise the password of Polexit, then have the courage to raise the issue of radical reform of the European Union, radical, towards confederation, loose confederation, Europe of homelands. That's what I think you can do. But you have to come up with a specific concept. And this concept, under current conditions in Europe, in the European Union, has the chance to win many supporters. Because today in Paris, Emmanuel Macron is still in charge, but after future elections, it is very possible that it will be Marine Le Pen. And that is why, when thinking about these scenarios, this is already the way to conduct Polish policy, Polish policy also in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u417	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you like to join the list of people who want to ask questions? I can't hear you. I'm closing the list. And we begin with Mr Mark's Grunts, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u418	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Among the priorities of the Maltese Presidency, which you discussed at yesterday's committee meeting and repeated [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Today, a key topic of migration policy is emerging. So I wanted to ask you: What convincing arguments, speaking of migration policy, were used by the PiS government, which does not want to accept a single refugee, in talks with Malta, a country that fully fulfils its obligations to receive refugees? That we have a pragmatic approach, not an ideological one, as you said yesterday at the committee meeting? That if solidarity is just limited, flexible, off-balanced, and if humanitarianism is what, let rich countries pay? By the way, I wouldn't confuse, Minister, in your place of ideology with Christian values, unless you call ideology epating religion by one of the groups well known to you. Because what the government is doing to the refugee problem is pure ideology. In the document discussing our participation in the work of the Union, we read that Poland provides assistance [[♪ The bell ♪]] humanitarian third countries. Minister Waszczykowski spoke about it. Question: "What about the humanitarian corridors of Minister Waszczykowski?" Who misled the public...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u419	Thank you, sir. The next question is Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u420	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u421	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. How can the 114-page document on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union ignore the Polish initiative whose Polish diplomacy devoted the most time and place during the Maltese Presidency? Meetings at the summit of the Prime Minister, meetings of the Foreign Minister, instructions for ambassadors, a Polish initiative about which newspapers, the most important European journals, the front pages and press agencies wrote about it. And there's not a single word in that 114-page document, not even a petitet. This is about the attempt by the Polish government to cast Donald Tusk's candidacy as President of the European Council. Is it shame? Because of the great disaster that the government suffered there? Second thing, ordo caritatis, helping refugees. Well, I say to Mr Głębock - ordo caritatis says that he first helps his own. Where are children in Poland for 3 years who have not gone to school? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u423	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u424	Where are millions of people under bayonets? Where are the cities... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u425	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this point on information has not yet been completed. There are still questions and answers from the Minister, and then perhaps a second reading. So it'll take at least half an hour. We have one more point in the program, so if someone doesn't want to participate in this point and wants to have a conversation, do it in the hallway. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u426	But maybe I'll wait 'cause there's such a sneak around here that the Minister may not hear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The question to which many Poles really do not have an answer today is: Why do we hurt ourselves? What do we really want from the European Union? Poles are scared every day in the media of power-enhancing information that this Union is horrible. And this is the position of the Polish government. Our fellow countrymen have been campaigned to do so. they ask themselves whether you do not have some sneaky plan, a strategy to get Poland out of the Union. We're in conflict, practically everyone. And we have a very difficult budget negotiation ahead of us. How can you win big money in such an atmosphere? Minister, taking the opportunity that I have you here, the question as if it were completely different, but about your department. When will the small border traffic with the Kaliningrad circuit be restored? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u427	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u428	Dear colleagues, [[Game in the O.R.]] Your marshal just said that there will be a vote in 30 minutes, so please stop talking and leave the room if you are not going to participate in this debate. Minister, there has been a European Democracy Fund in Brussels for over four years. It is one of the leading Polish initiatives in the European Union, and its activities are to complement the European offer of instruments to support democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the countries of the European Neighbourhood. Poland made a huge effort to set up this fund, also made a material contribution, transferred its embassy to it in Brussels, and its head was Deputy Minister Pomianowski. Does Poland continue to support the actions of this fund? What kind of finances are allocated to him? How do you assess the results of his work? And what is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing to promote the European Fund for Democracy? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to remind you that it is intended to support democratisation and transformation processes in the countries of the European Neighbourhood. Minister, is Poland - I repeat again - still an ambassador for this fund? Does this happen every time, in every Presidency? [[Applause]] [[I was the only one listening.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u429	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. I'm asking you for more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I welcomed the evidence presented in the information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland's political commitment to resolve conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East, especially in Syria. In the context of the great immigration problems facing Europe, these are extremely important issues. This commitment was manifested, as outlined in the report, among others. through participation in the formulation of a new European Union strategy for Syria and the participation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in an international conference in Brussels on the subject of: supporting the future of Syria and the region. Poland has consistently pointed out and pointed out the need to combat the root causes of migration by helping the population of countries affected by conflicts on the ground, the need to politically solve the problem of war in these countries. My question: How do these Polish actions translate into a possible evolution of the position of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u431	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u432	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The period of the Maltese Presidency was undoubtedly bad for Poland, that is, we were censored because of our failure to comply with the rule of law, we suffered a spectacular diplomatic defeat. At the same time, the concept of the Tri-Moor is ripening, which the Minister does not mention at the time, because it is indeed an initiative that can be perceived in the context of these events as a centrifugal action, and certainly it was such an impression, at least I assume. So the question is this: Since the Tri-marine initiative has a rational core of 120 infrastructure projects, which ensure consistency in this area - I assume that also with EU money - what have you done during the Maltese Presidency to ensure first that this initiative is welcomed by all members of the European Union? Second of all, what did you do... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u433	Mr Michael Szczerba...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u434	...to make the realization of all these... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u435	... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish government seems to take the approach taken from the poem by Alexander Fredry On the other hand, the Polish government forgets that this maxim works both ways, and from this novel comes a moral. Minister, why has your speech on the European Union lacked the word "rule of law"? Why did you forget to inform about the European Commission's actions to defend the rule of law in Poland? Does the Minister know about yesterday's resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which mentions Poland and Turkey as having problems with the rule of law? Will the Minister do anything to ensure that next year, when the NATO Parliamentary Assembly session is held in this Chamber, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the word... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u437	Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u438	I'll do anything to fit in time. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you to speak on a very important point. Someone will say that she is small on all these matters, but she is extremely important and concerns all producers of phosphorous fertilisers in Poland. Poland is a potentate in the production of phosphorous fertilisers. The biggest plant, the Police chemical plants become a victim of the so-called regulations. cadmium Directive on the quantity of cadmium in fertilisers. This is an extremely serious issue, and it seems that both in Parliament - the decision is already here - and the Council are losing this issue in its entirety. We know that there's lobbying, that there's a discussion between different phosphorous producers. The question is, Minister, what have you done about it? The producers claim that they were lonely and ministers did not even attend Council meetings. I would ask for precise information on your actions on this matter in writing, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u439	I understand that the Members of the opposition are talking, but the questions are addressed to the Minister of Law and Justice and I am surprised that you are interfering with the questioning and listening to them by the Minister at the time. [[Applause]] Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the government's actions in the first half of the year, the Maltese Presidency, especially - and that is what I would like to ask - these spaces, which are sort of unfinished, closed after the end of this Presidency. A very important issue for my region, for Silesia, is the role of decarbonisation in the economic policy of the European Union. The next issue is an unfinished problem. Nord Stream 2, in particular in the European Commission's attempts to take various actions, in our view, non-legal ones, which are to lead to the construction of this pipeline. The third issue is already raised here in questions, the area of telecommunications and the digital single market. But above all, the most important question is about Brexit, because it was a new phenomenon in this Presidency. I would like to ask you what the government sees as an exit when it comes to the negotiations on Brexit, where it turns out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the conditions will be good for other countries and other countries will want to leave the European Union under the same or similar conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u441	Please, Mrs Agata Borowiec, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u442	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions: do you think that the European Union needs a profound reform, mainly the decision-making process, in order to strengthen the role of national parliaments? And the second question: Minister, wasn't it Poland's success that in the Roman declaration there was a provision about strengthening the role of national parliaments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u443	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: Was it raised during the Presidency, the EU's multi-speed project has returned? We know that this would be a project that disintegrates the European Union. Therefore, if it has been undertaken, I have a question about which countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u446	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the winter energy package, Minister, which was adopted at the end of last year. I know that these last six months have been intensive work, the actions of the Polish authorities to oppose this package, to organise a coalition of countries that do not accept these unacceptable proposals from the European Commission. Please answer, if possible, how many countries have been able to convince us that we are right and which in the common position will support us before the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u447	Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u448	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As a matter of fact, this question has been addressed to Minister Waszczykowski every year on the occasion of the so-called. a small exposé on foreign policy, but since you have devoted quite a lot of Eastern policy in your speech, whose dimension in the European Union is the Eastern Partnership, I will now ask it to you. Well, in January 2016, Minister Waszczykowski, on the occasion of his first small exposé, stated that the Eastern Partnership is a bad concept, which primarily pursues German interests rather than Polish interests, and announced that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will begin work on a new, alternative, better, more favourable version of Eastern Policy, which would be proposed in the EU. So I wanted to ask you if this is the kind of work that goes on. Do you share the opinion of Minister Waszczykowski, so critical of the Eastern Partnership? And whether there is really a expectation, and in the European Union, and among our eastern neighbours, a new concept, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The new Eastern Partnership? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u449	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u450	Minister! Mr Tusk, together with the previous government of PO-PSL, underestimated Poland's accession to the AGN agreement, which aims to build water corridors, regulate European rivers and launch, activate water transport. I know that the government of law and justice has fixed these negligence. We're already a member of this agreement. This meant eliminating us in terms of huge European measures. At the time, the government felt that we did not need them. I have a question: Has the current government applied for such measures, without waiting for the years to come, for further periods of use? Were there also discussions on this issue during this Presidency so that all these negligence could simply remove and allow us access to European measures like other countries? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u451	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u452	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the comprehensive and very substantive report. I wanted to ask you about immigrants. There is much said that immigrants are people from countries or regions affected by conflicts, from countries or regions where poverty or extreme poverty or poverty exist. I wanted to ask if there's another direction for immigrants. Specifically, I am talking about the crisis which, as a result of the change in oil prices, has emerged in countries that produce crude oil. Don't those workers who worked there power up the immigrant ranks? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u453	Mr Konrad Głębocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u454	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Isn't it that Poland in the international arena is working with many countries today? How much does the opposition thesis on Polish isolation have to do with reality, since the Visegrad Group today works much better? It was under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL that Poland was the brake of this group, and sometimes it completely broke out of common positions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u455	And the last question - Mr Ireneus Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why isn't the Polish government doing enough to defend Poland's good name abroad? Diplomatic notes and interviews in the foreign press of Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski are too modest actions towards the entire propaganda industry that counterfeits the history of Poland and Europe. This is particularly true of the deliberate responsibility of Poland for the Holocaust. The organisation of an exhibition on the history of our continent by the House of European History in Brussels, which was created at the initiative of the European Parliament, has become an expression of disregard or even deliberate deception. The exhibition untruely informs about the circumstances of the formation of the Polish statehood and puts in a negative light the character of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Minister, what the Polish diplomacy is going to take on this matter and in other infringement cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] good name of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u457	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u458	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very extensive debate. Your interests are much wider than the narrow work of the Maltese Presidency... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Hey, would you guys listen to your minister?]] ...but I will try to answer, as far as the main elements are concerned, in particular those that actually concern European policy. I heard from the opposition bench that issues such as digitalisation, the power market, the Capital Markets Union are irrelevant issues that we should not spend too much time on them because they are general and irrelevant. From the same benches I heard for the fact that the very important issue that should be at the heart of our reflection on European policy during the Maltese Presidency has been a controversy over the state, the nature of the reform of justice in Poland, and that we should deal equally with one of 2.5 thousand. things that today [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] they are before the Court of Justice of the European Union: the matter of the wilderness. I'll admit, I have a completely different...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u459	Minister, may I have a moment, please? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am paying attention. If someone isn't interested in the subject, they can talk in the cockroaches. I didn't happen to have to call a messenger to order. Unfortunately, the noise makes it impossible... So if I say, if it continues to look like this, I'm going to have to apply the rules. [[Applause]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: To be honest, with such a hierarchy of importance, I fundamentally disagree. In fact, I believe that the question of the power market, which will decide on the future of Polish energy, the question of the Capital Markets Union, which will decide on the financial stability of the European Union, and finally the question of the digital market are important issues, and the question of one of the 2.5 thousand. judicial matters before the Court, which will probably soon be resolved, the issue of endless controversy as to the quality of judicial reform from the point of view of such or other European standards, the controversy which is at the edge of treaty legality, are, to say the most delicately, less important. That's why I'm gonna stick to my agenda. I am very sorry that I will not follow the good advice of some of the opposition Members. [[Applause]] But there were also questions and issues quite serious. One of these questions is, of course, the question of Polish responsibility for solving the migration crisis. There was a very specific question: How much Poland spends on assistance in the Middle East, in a region where we were never particularly politically present? Let us be honest: there are countries in Europe, there are countries in the European Union which have far more serious reasons to feel responsible, including financial responsibility, for destabilising this part of the world. But I'm gonna answer that. Poland spent PLN 124 million in 2016, which is four times more than last year. This is the most that has been spent on humanitarian aid in this region so far. [[But in 2016?]] I hope that this once and for all will cut off the frivolous doubts about the fact that the Polish position on the migration crisis is not serious. The position is serious and we draw far-reaching consequences from it. I will say more, the Polish contribution to the development fund, which, on behalf of the whole European Union, implements development policy also there, is not a small amount. I will say even more, the Polish contribution, the contribution already adopted, which has already been decided, for the initiative for economic resilience of these countries implemented in cooperation with the European Investment Bank is EUR 50 million. So far it is the highest premium of this type among the first five reported. I hope that this will once and for all cut off this frivolous discussion about how much Poland is responsible, how much Poland shows European solidarity in this matter. In migration policy, the European Union has been successful over the last few months because it has, on the one hand, stopped uncontrolled traffic on the Aegean Sea migration route and, on the other hand, has done very concrete things to stop the root causes of migration. This is also a Polish success. Without Poland, there would be no transfer of the centre of gravity from actually frivolous, irresponsible initiatives to relocate migrants to serious, pragmatic, effective instruments to combat the migration crisis. [[Applause]] This is also a Polish success and I think that from time to time in this House we could be proud of something together. [[But of what?]] There were other things that deserve attention. It is about Polish successes in general. The budget of the European Union. You know very well that the European Union's budget has never been easy. In the European Union, due to income differences, differences in the status of countries, for example, such a difference that some countries will naturally always contribute to this budget, and others, like Poland, will have a positive balance of this type of contributions, the political atmosphere around this matter has always been tense. Poland has already successfully carried out work on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. I think it is worth paying attention to this and that in the European Union everyone is aware of what is the Polish position on the reform of the EU budget, everyone, except for part of the Polish parliament. This is a sad dilemma, a statement related to this debate. It is said that we have different groups of countries meeting in different places in Europe and discussing the future of the European Union. Recently, one such group, the Versailles group, was also meeting with the Polish representative. I think it is obvious that in the European Union different groups of countries, which are closer to the subject, sometimes sit. Poland also organises various groups of countries: the Visegrad Group, the 9th Bucharest Group, the Eastern Partnership, in order to jointly consider such mechanisms, such scenarios for the development of European policy, which are more friendly to us. There's nothing out of the ordinary about it. I can assure you of one thing in the future of the European Union. The future of the European Union will either decide with us or it will not decide at all. Without Poland, as far as the future of the European Union is concerned, the reforms of the European Union simply cannot be implemented. This is information to you, but also an offer to other capitals, which may not fully understand it yet today, although these capitals are much less than you think, much less. As far as posted workers are concerned, it is rightly recalled that this is not the first time that the European Union has adopted the legal solutions that it regulates, but that they really regulate the possibility of providing work, delegated services. After all, it is a country that has recently ruled that has agreed to solutions that have already put in place bad solutions for the services market and for delegated work. Today, the same coalition of countries is calling for further changes and Poland, just under the Maltese Presidency - I mentioned this in the original speech - managed to organise a group of countries which was able to block the adoption of a general approach on this issue. The whole picture of this situation looks very different than some opposition politicians draw. The Brexit case. You raised mostly the issues of protecting the rights of Poles. It's natural for Parliament. The question was very clear: Will the rights of Poles be respected, will they have clear legal guarantees? Yes, I can assure you that the rights of Poles will be under legal protection and it will be international protection related to an agreement which the European Union, through Poland, will sign with Great Britain in the near future as a result of Polish recommendations. There's been some questions about defense. Here again, in this Chamber, we have also repeated this repeatedly in the Chamber of the European Union's Affairs Committee. Poland is interested in Europe doing more on defence issues. Poland is interested in financing the European Union's defence industry to a greater extent in the European Union. But it is true that Poland does not agree that only one part of Europe's development goals should be achieved from common resources, from common money, in this case the defence fund, so that only part of the European Union's development goals can be achieved. Such scenarios will obviously not be agreed on by us. The climate. It is right here that climate policy is an extremely difficult piece of EU policy for Poland, and not from now on. If someone asks today why it is so difficult to reach a compromise that would be satisfactory for Poland on climate policy, the answer is very simple: because the state signed conclusions in October 2014 which meant doubling the reduction target over the next 10 years. [[Applause]] Neighborhood issues were addressed in a certain correlation with the alleged inactivity of Poland in the East. We are facing a fundamental crisis in the neighbourhood, which is largely caused by external forces: Russia in the East and general instability in the Middle East. But, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain about visa-free travel with Ukraine and visa-free travel with Georgia that it would not have been completed if it had not been for the determination of this cabinet, had it not been for the determination of Poland and selected countries of the region that were interested in taking the countries that have European aspirations seriously, regardless of the bad, unfavorable political changes in some of the selected capitals of Western Europe. The second thing is quite certain. I think it is completely obvious to every observer of this process in every corner of Europe, perhaps with some exceptions for the Polish parliament. The Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine could not be ratified today if it were not for the Polish diplomatic effort, if it were not for the Polish work to create a political context for the Netherlands above all, i.e. to create an interpretative note for this agreement, which opened the way for ratification. This is also a Polish success if someone asked here about success. Initiatives were also asked. Naturally, the most flagship Polish initiative - Poland was the first country to take up this topic in an open, international debate - is the reform of the European Union. When this subject was first taken seriously in Poland, Warsaw was alone. Moreover, the opposition then explained to us, advised us not to submit a draft reform of the European Union, because everything is okay and the reform is impossible. I am curious how you are reacting today to the fact that the request for reform, which does not exclude a treaty change, is also made by other capitals, e.g. Paris. [[Applause]] I have the impression that this is a rhetorically very uncomfortable circumstance for you. Another Polish initiative is the obvious shift of the emphasis from migration policy, from the internal aspect to the external aspect. Today's situation of the European Union's migration policy is diametrically different from what we have inherited, with a relocation decision at the head. Another issue, which is a Polish trademark in the European Union, is the freedom of data flow. I know that some opposition politicians believe that the digital single market is of little importance, but to those of you who may think that the digital market is a very important aspect of the Community market, that this is a condition for the development of the services market, I will say that the initiative by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, a letter from 17 Heads of Government on this issue, was one of the most important initiatives alongside the Tallin Digital Summit, which was recently, within the European Union. Freedom of data flow as a systemic element of the future digital market is a Polish postulate, which Poland wrote at the head of the postulates on the construction of the digital dimension of the Community market. Minister, maybe part of the answer to the written questions... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Probably part of the answer requires much more information and it will certainly be delivered to you in writing on time. But finally, I will say one thing that, I think, is very important to our European debate at all. Someone in this room was offended by such an event that today and for some time now the Polish Prime Minister, also here in this Chamber, is able to say that some EU document, declaration or other document may not sign. Honestly, I totally don't understand this upsetting. I can tell you completely openly. Yeah, it's exactly what you think. We take into account a situation in which we do not sign a document, because the time when we signed documents regardless of their content has just passed. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? Mr Sławomir Nitras on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Only a representative of the Civic Platform shall be reported. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u460	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Members of the PiS! We are talking right now, and you are not interested in this at all, about your six-month activity and your government in the European Union. What is the accomplishment, I will adapt to the language that the Minister has proposed, what is the accomplishment of your six months? First of all, during this six-month period, 27 to 1. The Polish government was the only government that did not support the Polish candidate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is your work. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] You put Poland at risk... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The second thing is that you have put Poland at risk of imposing sanctions under Article. 7. Because of you, we have become a country in which we question whether we are a state of law. This is your work. Two, two for this! The third thing, it lets go. Judgment of the Court, decisions of the European institution. You say they don't exist. Two for this! Come on, Roman declaration, you say. The Polish Prime Minister, the day before the declaration is accepted, says: I will not sign. So? She's still proud of it. She's still proud of it. Two! [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: Poles too.]] For all of this, for the transports you've completely given up, which you've sacrificed for your policy: two! To the issues of posted workers. I don't know what Mr. Sellin's happy about. That half a million Poles will lose their labour law in the countries of the European Union? Two! Six months, that's six months of your work. [[I'm laughing at madness in my eyes.]] I fear to think, really, what the achievements of four years of your governments will be in the European Union. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am making an amendment which is aimed at not accepting a report on the government's activities for these six months. Because what do you have to do not to accept the report, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What more has to be done than you've done in six months? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u461	Mr President, please give me this amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u462	And your laughter... [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...your disregard for our partners... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u463	Mr President, because I will have to follow the rules of procedure. I'm gonna need that correction. The discussion is closed. [[Two for all of you.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, a draft resolution was submitted [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] the amendment, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Packaging Management and Packaging Waste and certain other laws (prints No 1875 and No 1900). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u464	High Izbo! The Environment Commission proposes to accept all four amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u465	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law allows us to seal waste management regulations. It also provides new tools for local authorities to comply with the law by companies involved in exports or waste management. The Senate has noticed a few minor editorial or linguistic deficiencies, so it is worth taking into account that these rules are appropriate. There is one amendment that allows the local government [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] real receipt of reports from buying-in centres and possibly imposing penalties if these reports are unreliable or delayed. This is worth supplementing, because it will allow local authorities to take into account this stream of waste and raw materials that have so far gone to waste, metals and which have not been included in the reports presented by the local government. This section of the Act allows local authorities to achieve the levels of recovery and recycling imposed by national laws or by European Union legislation, and will allow them to present these reports in a fair manner. Hence, the Law and Justice Club will be in favour of all four amendments prepared by the Senate, which will finally allow for the introduction of a law, which seal clearly the waste management system, to eliminate unfair, illegal companies using unfair competition and at the same time encourage citizens to behave more environmentally friendly. This section of the legislation, which concerns the so-called. foils will encourage this type of waste in our environment to be as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u467	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych from the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u468	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is pleased to present the position of the club on the resolution of the Senate in print 1875. Your Marshal, High Izbo, the Senate resolution makes four amendments. Two amendments are editorial. Amendment 2 complements the catalogue of bodies, clarifies the tasks, deadlines, conditions for the selection of penalties and their amount, while Amendment 4 gives the minister the appropriate opportunity to amend the regulation at any time, and this means that the provision in the regulation with a recycling levy of 20 gr can be changed at any time to a provision of 1 PLN. The aim of this bill is to bring Polish law into line with European Union legislation. The directive refers to the introduction of a recycling levy but does not specify its amount and Member States are required to adapt their rights by January 2019. On the other hand, the proposed bill assumes that the recycling charge will be up to PLN 1 and will enter into force from January 2018, i.e. one year earlier. It is also controversial to note in the Act that this fee will fund the state budget, not the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. During the work of the Sejm and the Senate, the Civic Platform has tabled numerous amendments, unfortunately all of our amendments have been rejected. PiS calls total opposition, and here we have proof that the PiS is the total authority, authoritarian authority and does not listen to the voice of Poles. Amendments good for citizens have been rejected. Why should Poles pay a new tax a year earlier and the money that should be used to promote environmental protection is intended for undefined tasks? I regret that there is no Minister Mazurka here, because I have a proposal for him not to reject, as part of social education, not to rip off additional danins from Poles, those material bags that the Minister advertises, to send to every house, to every apartment. And let me add that they pay particular attention at Chopin Airport in Warsaw, when some PiS Members paraded with them on their way home. Your Marshal, High Izbo, Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform will vote against the amendments of Senate 1, 2 and 3 and will abstain from voting on Amendment 4. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u469	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, made his statement in writing. [[Applause]] [[Get out of here.]] Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u470	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to discuss this quickly. The Senack Environment Committee has proposed that a number of drafting amendments, with which we agree, be amended and clarified. Unfortunately, the Senate has not led to changes in some of the regulations of the project, about which there were many doubts earlier in the Seym. The PiS senators did not support the amendments so that the fees would go to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This is a big mistake. This money will go to the central budget. Similarly, it has been amended to ensure that the one-off fees for plastic bags start to apply one year later, i.e. from 1 January 2019. Bag fees are due from 1 January 2018, which will result in a very heavy burden on traders as it will lead to losses related to the non-use of those materials which are already in possession. And that's a mistake, of course. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that the funds obtained from the plastic bags are intended to be used to combat smog, specifically to reduce energy poverty. However, in order to guarantee that the money from the sale of these plastic bags will be directed to the fight against smog, such a record would have to be entered, and this record does not exist, ladies and gentlemen. It didn't happen. I will no longer describe the amendments. I think we're in a hurry to vote. Let me put it this way: the fees for plastic bags set by the Minister for the Environment are 20 gr as promised by the Minister. The Senate in its amendments gives the Minister 12 months to draw up an implementing regulation, so we can expect it to be this symbolic gold. This 20 gr is tailored to our earnings in Poland, this zloty will be far too much. I am personally concerned that the introduction of EU directives is being used by the state to call for its own financial interests, and opens the way for the release of the money that should be used to protect the environment, to put a black hole in the budget that you presented yesterday, and we had a chance, a little pleasure in listening to your stories. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u471	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska made a written statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. Nobody signed up for a list of questions. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15 in relation to the law on amending the law on packaging and packaging waste management and certain other laws. Any amendments made to Chapter 6 of the Law of 13 June 2013 on the management of packaging and packaging waste are necessary from the point of view of the state's activities and international restrictions. However, this law is a consequence of trends in the EU institutions, which we are obliged to implement as Poland. It has long been known that plastic bags in landfills are not a threat to the environment, but are abandoned in forests and ditches. Therefore, there are several controversial issues. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Points 1 and 2 of the 40a include the provision of a recycling fee. The fee is charged for light foil bags, not very light foil bags. From the point of view of the decay period, very light foil bags and lightweight foil bags are made of similar materials. For the environment, very light plastic bags, which are one-off than the thicker ones that can be used several times, create a greater threat. The introduction of a maximum recycling charge of PLN 1 per lightweight plastic bag according to free market rights means an increase in prices for lightweight plastic bags. In other words, if a customer wants to buy vegetables from a farmer in retail form, he will have to buy expensive commercials or use his own. If the degree of environmental impact is combined with the average possibility of using foil bags, it turns out that the production of even paper or material bags is more negative. In line with its policy, the EU is trying to put pressure on Member States to reduce the production of lightweight plastic bags. These actions are driven by the belief that the period of distribution of such a bag may endanger the environment. However, according to our assessment, the introduction of restrictions on lightweight plastic bags is completely unnecessary. The correct process of burning the foil waste with the filters on allows you to completely dispose of light foil bags while generating heat energy. In conclusion, the foil bag due to its chemical composition, applied technologies and properly used filters can be safely burned without any adverse environmental impact. Instead of forcing the consumer with additional taxes to give up comfortable, lightweight plastic bags for often more environmentally harmful substitutes, it would suffice to introduce amenities for ecotoreb producers and their customers. Reaching citizens' pockets without a proposal for equal replacements is a bad idea. Poland is forced to adopt this law, but this does not change the fact that the costs will be borne by simple consumers shopping in home shops. Possibly, after the introduction of this law, foreign trade networks will introduce eco-torks made according to Western technology. Thank you. Question. Many companies complain about the high cost of recovery from some packages. Allowing the market to be environmentally harmful and difficult to recycle packaging, which is often more expensive than their environmental substitutes, generates additional losses for the state and households. Extortion of only organic and easy-to-recyclable packaging on manufacturers will reduce the amount of waste remaining on landfills. When does the Ministry plan to introduce real regulations for certain packages that are difficult to recycle?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 4 contained in the Senate resolution states that the implementing rules shall remain in force for no more than 12 months from the date of entry into force of the Act and may be amended. Minister, please answer whether a revision of the regulation can take place more often, e.g. every month. If so, the provision that the revenue from the recycling levy will feed the state budget is necessary because if you run out of money for government financial needs, you will change the regulation and increase this fee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u474	Position of the club PSL on the Act amending the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management and some other laws. The Act is the implementation of the Tax+ programme. It consistently accelerates the Taxation+ programme, and although the idea itself is correct, it is accompanied by excessive fiscalism and haste - the deadline for transposition of EU law into the Polish legal order is 1 January 2019. Early introduction of the toll system will generate additional, unplanned costs, which will be borne by companies and their customers, i.e. all Poles. Thus, there is a clear doubt whether the government is really concerned with protecting the Polish environment, or whether, above all, it is about another tribute to the state, all the more so because the government - it can be said that according to its own tradition - uses such an important subject to the next attack on voivodship authorities. This law transforms local governments into danin collectors for the government. Self-governments will play a critical role as fiscalist, and the money thus raised will be at the government's disposal and will not be used to protect the environment. The Senate amendments are primarily editorial and precise.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u475	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. It turned out that there were two people who had asked questions, but luckily they submitted them in writing and asked for a written reply. I'm ordering a two-minute recess so you can all sit in your benches and we'll proceed with the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 42 hours 17 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 1917. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's death. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on honoring the creators and soldiers of the Battalion of Boys on the 77th anniversary of their establishment. The design is 1923 print. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[President of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło enters the room, applause]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Memory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Ms Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska. I will make formal proposals after the anniversary resolutions. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2018 with the Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising 1918-1919 has been a great crowning point for 'the longest war of modern Europe' - the great triumph of Poles seeking liberation from the Prussian captivity, which was inherently accompanied by a desire to reunite with the beloved Commonwealth. The solid foundation of the independence efforts of Wielkopolska became such qualities as ardent patriotism, unhindered work at the foundations and authentic social spirit. They are titans of organic work, among them among others. Gen. Dezydery Chłapowski, Dr. Karol Marcinkowski, Emilia Sczaniecka, Hipolit Cegielski, Fr. Piotr Wawrzyniak or Maximilian Jackowski, through their social, cultural, economic and scientific activities, raising generations of educated, aware of their Polishness, contributed greatly to the subsequent success of the Wielkopolska Uprising. It is thanks to the heroic uprising of the insurgents of Wielkopolska 1918-1919, headed by the creators of the Wielkopolska Army, Major Stanisław Taczak and General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, their determination and generous blood donation almost all of Wielkopolska was incorporated back into the reborn Republic of Poland. The contribution of the inhabitants of Wielkopolska to the insurgent struggles in Upper Silesia and the commitment of the well-equipped and trained Wielkopolska Army to defending the independence of the reborn Homeland against the Bolshevik attack in 1920 cannot be overlooked either by silence. When the armed struggle was over, the inhabitants of Wielkopolska took the task of rebuilding and reuniting the Republic, destroyed by the historical turmoil. In this way they creatively referred to a rich positivistic tradition - the heritage of the Founders' Fathers of modern Wielkopolska - because there was a time when 'Poland needed sweat, not blood'. Bearing in mind the contribution of many generations of Greater Poland to the struggle for independence of the Republic, and then its reconstruction and the significant impact of the victorious Wielkopolska Uprising 1918-1919 on the shape of the borders of the reborn Polish State, the Polish Sejm establishes 2018 as the Year of the Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u477	Thank you. I understand that we are adopting a resolution by acclamation, so I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 with the Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 200th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's death (prints 1873 and 1907). Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Grzegorz Furga. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of Tadeusz Kościuszko on the 200th anniversary of death On 15 October 2017, we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the death of Tadeusz Kościuszko - a general of the Polish army and the American army, leader of Insurection from 1794, a participant in the war for independence of the United States, a tireless freedom fighter. Tadeusz Kościuszko occupies a special place in the pantheon of national heroes. In recognition of his excellent command skills and bravery, he was honored with the Order of Virtuti Militari. His ideals are timeless and are still a model of patriotic attitudes and service to the State. Appreciating these values of the Polish Sejm, the resolution of 22 June 2016 established the year 2017 - the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. For Poles and other nationalities General Tadeusz Kościuszko is a symbol of freedom and courage. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the memory of Chief Tadeusz Kościuszko and expresses its highest appreciation for his ideals, his dedication to the Homeland and his political and military achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u479	Thank you, sir. I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Tadeusz Kościuszko on the 200th anniversary of death. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on honoring the architects and soldiers of the Battalion of Boys on the 77th anniversary of their creation (print No 1923). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'd like to welcome my family here, Dr. Zofia Kaminska, daughter of dyw. Franciszek Kaminski, Chief Battalion of the Boys' Battalions [[Applause]] , and a group of former soldiers of the Battalion of Boys headed by Colonel. Zbigniew Zaborowski, President of the General Board of the National Union of Soldiers of the Battalions of the peasants. [[Applause]] [[Members chant: Hello and glory to the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes!]] [[Applause]] I'll read the draft resolution: Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on honoring the architects and soldiers of the Battalion of Boys on the 77th anniversary of their establishment On the day of the feast of the soldiers of Battalion Chłopski - the peasant army of the Polish Underground State, sons and daughters of the Polish village, who commemorates the Kościuszkowski's slogan 'Living and weapons' stood up for an open fight against the German invader for the freedom and independence of the nation, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to their commanders and soldiers. About 10,000 died in this fight. soldiers of the Battalion Boys, members of the People's Women's Union and members of the People's Party 'Roch'. The second armed organization of the Polish conspiracy has thwarted the implementation of German plans for the displacement and extermination of the Polish population in Zamość, which were part of the criminal Generalplan Ost. The Boys' Battalions then engaged in an armed battle against the Germans, which turned into the famous 'Zamość Uprising'. On October 8, 1940, Franciszek Kaminski, ps. Zenon Travinski, after World War II, a steadfast fighter for democracy, imprisoned by Communists in the Stalinist period, in the Third Polish Republic promoted to Major General of the Polish Army and decorated with the Order of the White Eagle. After the war, the soldiers of Battalion Boys were co-founders of the Polish People's Party fighting for democracy, freedom and justice. Thus they gave the seeds of the future 'Solidarity' agricultural movement. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland states that the peasant Battalions deserved their country well and pays the highest respect to the surviving soldiers of the peasant Battalions and pays tribute to those who fell on the freedom of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on honoring the creators and soldiers of the Battalions of Boys on the 77th anniversary of their creation. At the moment, Members of the House have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club. [[Mark, we're gonna need a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u480	This is serious. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. Three, I move for a recess. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I dedicate this break to Minister Konstantim Radziwilli, asking him to prepare and present to the High House a timetable for the actions he provides for in connection with the strike of resident doctors. Minister, as a doctor, you are well aware of the consequences a hunger initiated 11 days ago, interrupted and resumed. From the deliberations and information that we received from the Minister around the south, it appears that the only solution for stopping the hunger protest is to go away, i.e. to leave Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u481	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u482	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a recess to give you time to recalibrate all the figures in the budget of the State that we discussed yesterday in the context of the work of today's subcommittee on. a labour market that intends to introduce two or perhaps even four trade-free Sundays since the beginning of the new year. You said you wanted to fight foreign companies, the bad ones that exploit Poles, and I read the definition of a trading facility from this bill after today's changes. And what am I reading? I read that the ban on trade will include shops, stands, stalls, wholesalers, coal stores, warehouses of building materials, department stores, etc. Of course, you're about to say that there are numerous derogations. Yeah, but I think it's for big companies, which I see now, they're gonna build at gas stations or train stations. The end is that Jan Kowalski, who works hard from first to first to earn his own family, will not be able to trade, and big companies will build where you make legal gaps so they can build themselves. You're creating another legal bullshit. You have no idea how to get out of the problem you're in with the promises made to trade unions. Please tell me that you do not want to enter into this trade or stop making legal bubbles that will open huge gaps just for the largest networks, but worse, they will put some in a privileged position, and the other they will prohibit this trade, so - reaching the same customer - some stores will double their turnover and others will not be able to work on Sundays at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For such a distortion of competitiveness in Polish trade... Marshal: Thank you, Member. Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: ...can't be done at all costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u483	Thank you. The Member with the vote against it, right? There you go, Mr Robert Winnicki, non-member Member, against.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the vote against, because I have a proposal for modern Members who fight under the motto: I buy it whenever I want. Therefore, e.g. Mr Petru's parliamentary office shall be open until 3 p.m. 15 from Monday to Friday and you can't go to this office in a week's work... [[Voice from the room: Ooh! Ooh, that's not nice.]] ...you cannot go to this office, I have a proposal for Members of Modernity, and especially for President Richard Petru: if you start on Sunday in your parliamentary offices, if you do this first, you will start with each other... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...start with the action: I go to the MP whenever I want, then instruct millions of trade workers that they have to sit at the cash register on Sunday. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo, Robert.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u485	Thank you. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u486	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I applied a little later with a formal proposal because I wanted to speak before item 27 of the agenda, the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. We wanted to go out as a parliamentary club with a constructive proposal on a topic that seems to be moving the entire High House and moving a large part of our society. It's about the 11th day of the doctors' hunger protest, about helping the government find money somehow. In this act concerning compensation for the unrealised coal depot, in this law there is PLN 2300 million. Let's split this bill into two parts: this year Let's pass it on. 1 billion for miners, and 1,300 million for resident doctors at this point. We can make such a change in this session, hence the request to your marshal for a recess. During the break, I would ask your Marshal to convene the Senior Convention so that the Senior Convention and the Marshal can decide that this project should return to the Parliament's work to make certain amendments and to transfer 1,300 million to health care activities at this meeting, including meeting the expectations of resident doctors not only in relation to their wage applications but, above all, to their proposals to increase the financing of health services. It's possible this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u487	Mr Grzegorz Długi speaks against. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal to everyone that we do not let Poles be on our own so that we do not let professional groups be on our own. [[Applause]] We are all children of the same God. Have some decency. Mr. Chairman, really. [[Bravo, Grzegorz, bravo!]] If there are needs and there are needs to support doctors, not at the expense of others. [[Applause]] Let's look for resources, let's look for methods, but Poles, we're one family, let's not let it fool us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[They were so in charge for eight years, they set one against the other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u489	Thank you very much. We'll get out of this as follows, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to vote on the request for a recess. I'm voting for a recess. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 173 voted against - 257, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Modern Club has submitted requests to supplement the agenda with points: - Information from the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction on the construction of the Hungarian ring road Górka, - Information from the Minister of National Education on the dismissals and the loss of part of teachers' posts resulting from the reform of the education system. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The formal request was made by Mirosław Suchoń, but I, after the vote... [[There's no such thing.]] We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with information on the implementation of the construction of the Hungarian ring road Górka. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction on the construction of the Hungarian Górka ring road, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 206 voted against - 234. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with information from the Minister of National Education. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister of National Education on the dismissals and the loss of part of the teaching staff resulting from the reform of the education system, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 207, against 233, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club. Are you holding up this motion? [[Yes, of course.]] There you go. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! By art, of course. Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm request a recess. Mr. Marshal, I would like to request that during this break, the Minister of Infrastructure provide us with information on the timetable for the construction of the Hungarian ring road Górka, because he committed himself to this during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. We have not received this schedule until today, even though the committee was sitting in July...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u491	I am very sorry, sir, but this is an illegal proposal. This topic is not on the agenda, first of all, and we have just voted on the request for a break. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Voting on the motion to reject the report submitted by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2016 (prints 1725 and 1823). In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has accepted the report. I would like to remind you that the Commission for State Control recommends not to adopt a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The question is raised by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The report on the activities of NIK for 2016 is a material that reliably summarizes the action of the state and its institutions, primarily giving the right to make decisions improving the functioning of our country. I would like to ask you if you believe that the work of more than 1,500 people, including experienced controllers, cannot be accepted. Anyone who attended the session of the Sejm Committee, as well as on Friday, in the last plenary session, knows very well that it is something else, that it is a personal aspect. I just want to emphasise once again: Do you think it's fair to judge people through a mere proposal and not [[♪ The bell ♪]] A conviction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u493	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the report in print 1725 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 219 voted against - 210, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017 ¿. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1885. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1885, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 1 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the establishment of a multiannual programme. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017 ¿. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The discussion requested additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I would remind you that the proposal put forward by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposal that the Sejm Bureau has given. I can't hear you objecting. [[Questions.]] Oh, there's a question for the Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz club15, raises the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The contested law mainly deals with facilitations in the activities of operators involved in the marketing of tobacco droughts. It is a very important law for farmers, they are very much counting on the fact that this tobacco drought will go beyond Poland's borders. Let me remind you that 16 months ago a similar law was filed by the Kukiz club15 and then the High House agreed to proceed with this law in the finance committee and in the agriculture committee. For 15 months, two sub-committee meetings were held, a very substantive meeting, and the conclusion was one: a government project should be waited for, so as to proceed on two projects in parallel: the Kukiz project15 and the government project. Therefore, I ask you to refer this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also to the agricultural committee... Marshal: Thank you. Member Jarosław Sachajko: ...to develop the best project for farmers and the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u495	We proceed with the vote on the request for further referral. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the draft Law No 1865 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 214 voted against - 226 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1845. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1845 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 440, against - 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Maritime Labour Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The Members shall raise questions. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u496	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The World Economic Forum announced a new report two weeks ago, a report for 2017-2018. In this ranking Poland fell from 36 to 39th place. Let me remind you that for the last eight years we've been in this ranking toiling up, but the PiS can ruin everything. I would like to ask the applicant's representative: What does she think is at the root of the decline in this ranking? I would just like to point out that in this ranking based on 12 pillars of competitiveness, we are the worst in terms of institutions, institutions of the state. In fact, the PiS is pulling us down when it comes to this ranking. The transparency of economic policy in the case of Poland is assessed in such a way that we are on 118th position in 137 countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u497	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u498	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The motion to reject this law at first reading clearly shows that the PiS state does not read the projects or do you not know what you are voting on at all. This bill only clarifies the bill you voted for at the beginning of the year, the President's law, which was very vague. This project details Mr. President's reasonable records. Now you think you have to throw it away. It's only in the basket because it was reported by the Civic Platform. It's just ridiculous. Do you guys ever wonder? Are you guys reading these billings? Sometimes think about what you're voting on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u499	Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He hasn't said anything yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u500	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we could reflect on the point of proceding changes in the Freedom of Business Act, which will, after all, be repealed in a few months. I have questions to the Minister: Is it true that, according to the Supreme Bar Council, the project we are debating today is not in line with the principles of legislative technology? Is it true that it unduly interferes with the freedom of the legislative process? Is it true that it poses a threat to the Sejm minorities? And last but not least, this does not mean that it is the least important, because it is the constitution which you often support: Is it true that, according to the Supreme Council of Lawyers, this project may be incompatible with the article. 32 constitutions that say that everyone is equal to the law? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u501	Thank you. The representative of the applicants is Maria Małgorzata Janyska. Would you like to speak? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One at a time. I'll start with the competitiveness of the economy, ladies and gentlemen. Janusz Cichoń asked what are the reasons for the decline in the competitiveness of our economy. For almost 2 years, entrepreneurs, representatives of entrepreneurs, lawyers, economists and experts have warned against this, including the opposition. We all speak with one voice that questionable legislation under the PiS government, which has led to chaos and uncertainty of the legal system and the tax system, is the main barrier here - indicated by entrepreneurs - in terms of reducing investment plans, development. The data cited by Janusz Silchoń are facts. The World Economic Forum has indicated that we have fallen by three positions in the latest ranking of the competitiveness of national economies. 137 countries are analysed. And now I'm looking at you on the right and I'm waiting for the chanting: 8 years, 8 years, 8 years. For eight years in spite of the financial crisis, we have been in the ranking of competitiveness up. And it took less than two years for us to start falling. [[Applause]] And for what reason? Because of the weakness of the institution, because of the weakness of the state that you have an influence on and which you are guilty. Ladies and gentlemen, don't blame anybody else for this state that's currently here. Therefore, in order to help you and to respond to the calls of entrepreneurs who also addressed Prime Minister Beata Szydło to speed up the work on lawmaking, on the principles of law-making for entrepreneurs, we tabled on 31 July a draft law which contains very concrete measures to support law-making for entrepreneurs, which would, if it were, of course, adopted, transparency, certainty and predictability of the effects of law-making. Apart from the PiS, all clubs and circles that took part in the debate at first reading yesterday supported this law and want to work on it. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a great surprise that the PiS did not want to hear other positions, voices about important aspects, that they did not want to work at all. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, why do they want to reject this? Yesterday, few of you were here, which is why I will read, as the Member speaking on behalf of the PiS Club justified, because this is very important and significant in general for the ruling approaches: the PiS Club - I quote - also see the need to supplement the law on freedom of business, therefore - note, I quote further - we are planning to write a bill for entrepreneurs as if again. In that case, let me not develop specific solutions, because on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am applying for rejection in full in the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, do you feel this approach? You smell that grotesque? We're rejecting it. Why? Because we're gonna write our bill - maybe our own, maybe our own. [[She's ready, Member, I was talking about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that's a slip and an unfortunate statement. This is the shoe and the arrogance of power, and the ignorance of absolutely all other voices. Today it was very clear during the current information, when they were driving nonchalantly thrown into space, referring to doctors resident. In a moment to teachers, in a moment to entrepreneurs, because you don't need a free nation, you need followers. You have created a state model without any mode, with manual control, and in this room you have converted the legislative process into a legislative process. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u503	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1848 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 234 voted against - 205, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax. We proceed to the third reading. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law introduces the Minister of Finance once again trade tax, this time since 2019. Minister, the Civic Platform recommends that you postpone this tax not until 2019, but ad Kalendas Graecas, because it is a bad tax, passed on to the customer, just like the bank tax. Plus, you can't even get him in. There is no tax, and the shops discounted it and the Poles paid more, although the budget did not gain. Only the incompetent PiS government can introduce new taxes like this. The vote in favour of this law is a vote in favour of trade tax, a vote against this law is also a vote in favour of trade tax, and therefore the Civic Platform will not take part in this vote. And you guys think about what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u505	I didn't hear the question. [[What are you doing? Isn't that a question?]] And I would ask Members to ask questions at this point. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u506	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Is it true that once again we have to postpone the introduction of this tax because it was badly prepared that you did it too quickly, you didn't think it over, and now we have to withdraw from it again? Hence the lesson that more time should be spent preparing laws in an appropriate way, and that is what we ask once again. Is it true, Minister, that consumers will pay for this tax? Where does the money come from to make these super-, hyper- or medium-sized brands tax? They come from citizens. So on the one hand, we give citizens more in form, for example. 500+, but on the other hand we take away from them in the form of such a tax. We, as Modern, are in favour of withdrawing this, so we will vote in favour of a shift, but we have also tabled a bill to give up this tax at all. Let's let people keep it in their pockets. more money, that's what we're talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u507	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1879, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 304 Members voted. The vote was 271, against - 18, with 15 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Retail Tax Act. We would like to refer to item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor, Marcin Kierwiński, dated 10 July 2017 to allow the Sejm to hold Dominik Tarczyński liable. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the Members is in favour of the application by the private prosecutor Marcin Kierwiński of 10 July 2017 to consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński for the act set out in this request will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[The voice from the hall: slanderers!]] [[Voice from the room: Courage!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[He was covering for his friend.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't scream because we're voting. 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. 186 voted against - 240, with five abstentions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] I state that, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm has passed a resolution on not allowing Mr Dominik Tarczyński to be held liable for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Marcin Kierwiński dated 10 July 2017. [[Voice from the room: Strong in the mouth.]] [[Slander!]] We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health Protection. The additional report shall be in print 1858-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. One amendment was introduced during the second reading. The Extraordinary Commission, after consulting it, considered that it was unnecessary to complete this project. The same was the position of the government and the Legislative Bureau. The committee therefore requests that this amendment be rejected and requests that the law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u509	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that this is a draft of the 1858 Print Act. The amendment tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In this amendment to the article. 570 Act Code of Civil Procedure in the newly added § 1 applicants propose that provision 1 be applied also when the custody court has taken a credible message of an event justifying the initiation of proceedings. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. There were 203 votes against, 233 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1858, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 421 against - 4, 5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Mental Health Protection. I'm declaring a three-minute break, and I'm asking the Senior Convention for a dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 33 hrs. 18 min 37]] Resume session. I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, I received an opinion and decided to remove from the voting agenda, which is provided for in item 20., the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We'll move them to the next session of the Sejm. We are returning to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act and certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Packaging Management and Packaging Wastes of the Senate in Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 proposes to amend the reference. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 27 votes against - 401. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The amending act containing amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in the municipalities of the Senate proposes, among other things, that the provision of the article. 9p also concerned the reports referred to in the inserted Article. 9nb paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. So the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 12th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 1 Member voted against - 431. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. 27 voted against - 288, with 125 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The additional committee report is in print 1898-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak has the floor to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u510	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 11 amendments were tabled today at the Energy and Treasury Committee. One accepted, 10 rejected. The one that was accepted has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u511	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1898. The Commission presents, as we have heard, the amendments in this report. We will vote on them first. I confirm and inform you that the applicants have withdrawn Amendment 5. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose the new wording of point 1 of point 2. a. Amendments 2, 3 and 10 are combined with this amendment. And we will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 174 voted against - 266, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 5 the new wording of paragraph 5 of the applicant. 1 propose an extension of the deadline for submission of applications by 15 December 2017. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u512	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose an extension of the deadline for applying for compensation until 15 December 2017. It should be borne in mind that almost 240 thousand are entitled to this benefit. persons among whom there are not only retired and senior pensioners, sick and disabled persons sometimes, but also widows and orphans who are entitled to a survivor's pension. This amendment gives us the opportunity to submit an application by as many eligible persons as possible. I appeal here to Members of the Law and Justice, mainly to Members of Silesia, to support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u513	Thank you, sir. As we heard, it was an appeal, not a question. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 143 votes against - 279 and 12 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 5 has been withdrawn. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a-5c on the right to a monetary equivalent for the right to free coal. Amendments 7 to 9 and 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The amendment concerns the possibility for pensioners to choose either a single statement or a monthly payment of the equivalent by the Social Security Office. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give these people freedom of choice. [[Why'd you take that away from them?]] There are people who want to take a one-time equivalent, and there are people who want just every year to have paid the equivalent by the ZUS each month. The law and justice say, "We give." On the other hand, he says you only have one option. We say do something. A citizens' project, under which 130,000 signed. persons were brought here to the Sejm asking that the equivalent be paid in such a way. We agree with this amendment to the civil project submitted at the beginning of 2016 at first reading in June 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He didn't have that project until today. He didn't go through with it. I suggest we take it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u515	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 6 to 9 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 149 voted against - 289, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u516	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'll ask the Prime Minister a question. Time runs fast. Soon it will be the third anniversary of the bill that we prepared, changing the situation in mining. This was done in tumult, in protest of the opposition. It's been three years. And what are the effects of the new government? In addition, 8 billion PLN from the budget to the Company for Restructuring of Mine, 2.5 billion PLN from the budget to the Company for Restructuring of Mine billions of funds transferred from energy companies to mining, now 2.5 billion of funds prepared for this law, an increase in energy prices because they used raw materials. I would like to ask the Prime Minister when you will present a comprehensive plan of the place and role of coal in our energy balance. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u517	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u518	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to explain, Mr Kosiniak, the misunderstood statement. Mr Długi, we do not want to take anybody's money. Our proposal is going in this direction to withdraw half by the end of December this year, and the second half in January from the new budget, because there will be money - after all, Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the money will be - and this part will be directed to solving the problem of health care. And that would be a logical solution. The second thing I wanted to ask you, Mr. Marshal, is the case of pensioners who don't have coal today. The government proposes 500+ for pensioners and pensioners. We made that offer. Today, a ton of coal, Mr. Marshal, is 1,000 zlotys in Podkarpacie. [[Voice from the room: Into the microphone.]] [[I can't hear you.]] Coal has been reduced by 30%, pension amounts to PLN 850. We have a bill. It's in the Seym. It's a print number, Marshal, number 1913. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we started proceding in the near future, this year we would give people a chance to buy coal, because right now there is really drama. [[Applause]] But there's a chance... Marshal: Thank you, sir. Member Mieczysław Kasprzak: ...to stop this bill from proceeding, Mr. Marshal. This problem has a logical justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u519	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u520	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's actually a pretty sensible bill. In return for the waiver of claims, it is possible to obtain partial compensation of 10 000. zł. The only problem is that in the article. 11 of this law you state that the security is the State budget of PLN 2350 million. There is no security in the state budget. Only collateral This is the press conference of Prime Minister Morawiecki two weeks ago. That's not the way to make the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this law should be preceded by an amendment of the state budget so that we can legally adopt this law. [[Applause]] [[We keep our word.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u521	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the Compensation Act will solve the issue of many legal actions? It is a benefit that falls within the so-called. almost acquired, but unrespected by the previous government. It should be noted here that this is an unrespected benefit for employees who acquired these rights, but there were those rights not respected by the previous government of PO-PSL. Another point: Is it true that the choice of the previous government did not give at all? In general, such a pension benefit was simply suspended. There's one more thing to add at this point. The amount of compensation for mining pensioners was calculated by them in the form of multi-billion-dollar taxes paid to the State budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u523	Whatever you say, Minister... But I think it's all clear. It's all clear. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1898, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 1, 10 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1917). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this? I can't see, I can't hear. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 1917 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 4, 10 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 October this year. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min 53 hours 18 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who do not wish to attend this point in our sitting today, I would ask you very much to move the talks to the colloquials. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will be the first to make a statement. In writing, great. Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns resident doctors. Hot topic. The Ministry of Health does not sweep the case under the carpet and is working to raise the minimum pay of doctors. The profession of a doctor, otherwise a vocation - because it's not a profession, it's a vocation - requires experience and many years of learning. Each physician works and learns, improving himself professionally and gaining specialization. Here I would like to refer to the words of Minister Jarosław Gowin on the radio RMF: medicine is an expensive direction of study, and the cost of education for one person is 500,000. zł. Then, with a diploma, such a newly baked doctor gets on a ferry, goes to Sweden or Norway. This trial has to end. It's not like some abstract state puts a doctor into education. It is us, Poles, who educate doctors with our money and do not have access to them because they have just left. Higher pay for resident doctors means once again giving up the entire society to work out experienced doctors who are leaving the country. It doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Minister Gowin in the same interview proposed a solution: medical studies would be fully paid, but 100% covered by state scholarships. However, there is only one condition that for a few years they will have to work it off after receiving a diploma. This is an interesting solution. It is also a rescue for patients and health care, otherwise we will educate and send our best specialists to Europe and we will be stuck in queues ourselves. Today, which is noticeable in all institutions, comes a generation geared towards consumption. We need to stop this process. The most important thing in life, in socio-political space is ethics. Ethics, or value higher than material. Unfortunately, the ethical dimension lies, we see it everywhere. Also here, in the field of doctors, this dimension sometimes He's not what he's supposed to be either. Maybe it's worth going back to the Hippocrates oath, because today in Poland doctors take a medical oath as part of the Code of Medical Ethics. I think this is an important topic for social discussion, not with warming of the subject, not with negative emotions, but with leaning on the essence of the matter. Keep your conscience and health above good things - that's what our ancestors taught us. To conclude, I will quote a very wise proverb: medicus curat, nature sanat - the doctor heals, nature heals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u525	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Anczynski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On September 1, 1977, the school bell rang for the first time at Primary School No. 7 in Chojnice. Today, the school community symbolically celebrated the anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the school's establishment during the ceremonial academy at the school. The decision to start a new primary school in Chojnice was due to the need, necessity. The schools in Chojnice were unable to accommodate all the students of post-war demographic boom in the 1960s. Students learned under terrible conditions. The lessons lasted until late evening hours. After many requests from the municipal authorities addressed to the then decision-makers of the Bydgoszcz Voivodeship in 1975, it was decided to build a new primary school and its location in the Bytowski Estate. Construction of a long-awaited facility has begun, which has been established so-called. the collective municipal school, thanks to which it received the status of the leading municipal institution and became the seat of the municipal education. The school building was opened on 11 November 1976, but only on 1 September 1977 the first pupils appeared at the school. $1,000. students from 31 classes began to study with 38 teachers at a modern school. In the 10th anniversary of the uprising on 11 December 1987, the school received the name of Jan Karnowski, a philanthropist, a poet, but above all a regionalist and a great lover of culture and Kashubian history, animator of cultural life of Chojnice land. During the ceremony, the school received the banner. Until 1988, Primary School No. 7 Jan Karnowski in Chojnice was the largest educational institution in Chojnice. After the reform of education in the school building, School Complex No. 7 was established in Chojnice, which included Junior High School No. 3 and Primary School No. 7. Today the school looks completely different than it did 40 years ago. In 2011, a new gym and Orlik field were established at the school, and classes of zero were opened, and since last year a modern kindergarten has been operating at the school. Her graduates returned to school, who worked as teachers in this institution, and remember the first years of so-called. Sevens. Since the school year 2017/2018, primary school No 7 is again an eight-year-old institution with 933 students, 85 teachers and 32 administrative and service staff. From this point of view, I would like to congratulate the school board, the pedagogical group, the staff and graduates and the present students on the beautiful anniversary of your school. I am very pleased to be able to thank you from the Seym tribune for your great work as a teacher with children. I know how unappreciated this work is, but the satisfaction of doing well in the form of smiling students will be the greatest reward for you. The work of a teacher is extremely responsible and difficult. You are responsible for future generations of Poles who will build the Republic in 10, 20 years. I also address my wishes to always forgotten and underestimated administrative and service staff. Thanks to your work, the school is always ready for the students' party. The students of the school wish only good memories of the first school, the beginning of the educational path. Remember your patronage, who cared about the tradition, culture and history of our region. May Jan Karnowski be a model for you to care about the memory of previous generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u527	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the Polish public space has been discussing the so-called. war reparations, i.e. compensation for the damage caused by Nazi Germany Poland, are taking place a total attack on our country. An example is the recent debate on the motion for a resolution on the observance of democracy in Poland and in other European countries. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is not the structure of the European Union, wants to replace the European Parliament and some of the EU Commissioners who are simply after Poland at all costs. The resolution adopted by a small majority on 11 October calls on five countries, including Poland, to take action to restore the rule of law. The author of the resolution is the leader of the Evicted Union, a German Member, Mr Bernd Fabritus, who is also the Vice-President of the Legal and Human Rights Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thus, in Poland's affairs a representative of the state, which caused Poland a great deal of harm: genocide, German death camps or death camps for Polish children, speaks. The alleged lack of democracy in Poland speaks of a politician who does not see that the right to freedom of expression is being violated in his country, and already famous for his bizarre practices, the Office for Children and Youth Jugendamt has taken away the rightful parents, with the passiveness of German politicians, nearly 50 thousand. After all, children, and a large part of them come from Polish families working and living in Germany. These children are transferred to foster homes after their stay in a special facility. Jugendamt has been making 2,000 dollars in this business. Euros up to 5 000 Euros on one child. Where is Mr Bernd Fabritus, Vice-President of the Legal and Human Rights Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Why not call on the Venice Commission to its country, it will not draw up a resolution calling for, inter alia. Germany to refrain from child trafficking? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In all this, it is sad that politicians of the Civic and Modern Platform voted in favour of the resolution. I regret that we must struggle with the phenomenon of reporting to our own country. I did not hear the voices of politicians of these formations, that they would defend Polish families and Polish children with just as much energy from the destructive activities of some institutions of the German state. As you can see, it's more convenient to report to your own country. This brings splendor and can be flashed in German media, where Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung has its own specific place. What were the reasons for the Polish politicians who voted in favour of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Honestly, I don't know. Perhaps the cynicism that characterized Branicki, perhaps the naivety of Potocki. One thing is certain: their attitude did not deserve their country well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u529	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In August of this year, the Act of 20 July 2017 amending the Real Estate Management Act entered into force. The legislator provided for changes in the profession of asset valuer. In the amended act, an article was added. 189b, which introduces real estate valuation regulations. On the basis of this article, the person determining the value of the property must be an asset valuer. According to the amended law, a person who does not pursue the profession of asset valuer and determines the value of the property shall be fined up to 50,000. Due to the lack of precise indication of situations in which the valuation of the property is subject only to the property valuer, a number of doubts arose. The problem concerns successions, donations, loans for real estate. In each of the WWs. the situation of the citizen is obliged to indicate the value of the property. So if he typed it himself, e.g. in the contract, the value of the property will be subject to this fine of up to 50,000.? Similar doubts arise in the case of e.g. declarations of property which must be filled by councillors, Members, Senators, School Directors. Any person who completes a statement of property must estimate the value of the property held. So far there has been no requirement for the valuer to measure the property. Following media reports on the estimation of the value of real estate, following these reports, a memo appeared on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction that persons who will estimate the value of real estate for private purposes would not be subject to this fine. However, I believe that an explanation on the website is merely not a legal act and does not provide adequate safeguards in the event of legal doubts. I therefore ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction to amend the Real Estate Management Act in order to rule out any doubts regarding the interpretation of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u531	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Radecnica there will be important events for all those who have always fought to restore memory to the soldiers cursed, and for all those who have always fought for the Republic to pay their debt of gratitude to their heroes, victims of the oppressive communist system. Colonel's funeral. Mariana Pilarski ps. Jar, inspector of the 2nd Zamojski AK Provincial with a staff in a monastery in Radecnica, will take place on Saturday 14 October in the Radecnice basilica. He will also be buried with him by his commanding captain. Stanisław Bizior ps. Eam. The remains of both of these heroes were recently found by the Institute of National Remembrance. I received it from Dariusz Pilarski, grandson of Marian Pilarski ps. Jar, an invitation to the funerals, for which from this place, from this Parliament, thank you very much. In view of the Sejm's meeting, I cannot personally attend these important celebrations, but I will be at the heart tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Radecnica, accompanied in the final journey to Paris and to Eam. Hello and memory to heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u533	Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u534	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Teachers, Educators, School workers and educational institutions! The best is the one who can breathe pleasure into the soul of his disciples. National Education Day is coming up, the celebration of Polish education. On this occasion, I would like to wish you all the best wishes of every success and satisfaction in the profession. The role of the teacher is to shape character and morality in a young man, to point out the right way and to prepare for the most important roles in life. Often the school becomes a home for the child, and the teacher becomes the closest family. Thank you for all the efforts you make to raise and educate young generations. I believe that this effort will make your people wise and noble. Thank you for the daily, extremely difficult and difficult building of attitudes and silhouettes of Polish patriots. I realize that the effects of this hard work will sometimes have to wait patiently, but there will be a moment when they become visible. Along with thanks, I would also like to ask for further commitment to the efforts to get a good education and education of the young generation of Poles. That's, among other things. Thanks to your efforts, you have managed to bring much closer to the model of a high-quality education school, which is safe and friendly for students and parents. Ladies and gentlemen! Please accept the best wishes of health, constant patience and smile. Let this difficult work bring you respect for your students and understanding of your parents, and the greatest thanks will be the pride of a well-managed vocation. May each day be accompanied by a creative passion for communicating knowledge and shaping attitudes of young Poles. Happy birthday! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u535	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u536	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! August 30th this year TLK ¿Pogoria ¿ relations Gdynia - Bielsko-Biała collided with the freight depot near Smumowo Graniczne near Grudziądz. As a result, almost 30 people were injured. Tuesday, September 26th, after 6 p.m. 18, on the railway crossing in Nowy Dwora there was a collision of the Pendolino train relations Gdynia - Bielsko-Biała, again the same route, with the bus. On 8 October two wagons of the TLK train were derailed, once again, Gdynia - Bielsko-Biała, this time in Subkowy near Tczew. Luckily, the train didn't turn over, none of the wagons turned over, and it probably didn't happen because of it, or death, or a serious accident. So I have three questions. Firstly, what were the circumstances of these accidents, and how did accidents happen three times in such a short period of time on the same route? What steps have been taken to ensure that passengers are safe in the future? And thirdly, does the condition of the rolling stock on the Bielsko-Biała - Gdynia route, in particular the TLK train, ensure proper safety for travellers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u537	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Buczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The following week, on October 20th, in the crowd's communal cemetery, in the specially created quarters of the steadfast soldiers, with honors will be buried almost 70 years after the tragic death of two soldiers: Leopold Rząsa and Michał Zygo. The remains murdered by the communist authorities for the independence activities of Leopold Rząsa, Michał Zyga and the last director of the Rzeszów district of the Association of Freedom and Independence of Władysław Koba were found by a team of IPN employees under the direction of Prof. Krzysztof Szwagrzyk in September 2015 at the cemetery in Zwięczyca, currently the district of Rzeszów. The ceremonial funeral of Władysław Koba with a full military ceremony took place on 17 September Ub. R. in Przemyśl. Captain. Koba was only buried in his family tomb after 67 years, next to his wife and daughter. Captain. Władysław Koba was executed on January 31, 1949 in a prison in the castle in Rzeszów. Two other members of the Freedom and Independence Association, Leopold Rząsa and Michał Zygo, died together with him. Their bodies were buried secretly at night in the parish cemetery in Zwięczyca. The burial site was kept secret, the families hadn't known about it for a long time. Who were they that the Communist oppressors and judges sentenced them to death and wanted to erase them from our memory? Władysław Koba was born in 1914 in Jarosław. He graduated from the Infantry Sick School in Komorów. He participated in the September campaign. For his bravery in the defense of the Fortress Modlin was awarded the Cross of Valor. Organized and trained ZWZ-AK platoons in the Jarosław district. He organized many armed and diversionary actions. In 1945, after the dissolution of the AK, he became the commander of the circuit Przemyśl organization. Since the founding of the Association of Freedom and Independence, he has been in charge of this association. At the time of his arrest in 1947, he was the head of the WiN WiN district in Rzeszow. Captain's arrest. Koby is considered to be the symbolic end of WiN structures in south-eastern Poland. For independence activities in 1948 The Rzeszów Military District Court sentenced him to death. Leopold Rząsa, who was born in the Labsianka, was sworn in the ZWZ in 1941. He acted in an interview at the premises of AK Słocin, and after the end of the action he became a deputy intelligence officer of the district of AK Rzeszów. After the war he resumed his studies at the Jagiellonian University, obtained a master's degree in law and became an applicant of the District Court in Rzeszów. In the autumn of 1945, he was re-entered into conspiracy. He was in charge of the WiN Association. He was detained by UB officers in Rzeszów and repressed. He took a failed, even suicide attempt to escape. After almost a year and a half of investigation, he was sentenced to death. Michał Zygo was born in 1917 in Rzeszów. Graduated from petty school, took part in the September campaign. During the German occupation he was a soldier of the ZWZ-AK. By order of the conspiracy authorities, he joined the PPR and infiltrated the ranks of this organization. After entering the Red Army in August 1944, he began working at the Regional Command of MO in Rzeszów. At the instigation of Leopold Rząsa's school colleague, he began his conspiracy activities within the WiN Association. He was the best functioning WiN plug in the safety camera. It was thanks to his information that many conspiracy activists avoided death and repression. Michał Zygo was murdered with a Katyn shot in a prison in Rzeszów on 31 January 1949. His corpse, along with the bodies of Władysław Koba and Leopold Rząsa, was buried in a cemetery in Zwięczyca. On October 20th, we will bring the remains of Leopold Rozsa and Michał Zygi to the resting place in the quarters of the steadfast soldiers in Rzeszów. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're finally gonna walk our heroes out in a decent way, just like they deserve. It will be another funeral of heroes who have kept their dignity to the end, and it will be another funeral which we restore dignity to the Polish state. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u539	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Saturday 14 October we will celebrate National Education Day, Teacher's Day. On this occasion, I wish teachers and employees the best of their education. Let the hard work of teaching and upbringing be rewarded by the gratitude of the disciples and parents. I particularly greet the staff of education and teachers in my constituency, in Legnica and in the former Legnica and Jelenia Góra voivodships. Happy birthday! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u541	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Falfus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As every September, I had the privilege of co-organizing the celebrations and attending the celebrations in Cierlicko, at the site of the plane crash of pilots Pebble and Wigura, under the monument commemorating the heroes of the tragic flight. This year, on 11 September, we celebrated the 85th anniversary of the death of Capt. pilot Franciszek Pebble and Eng. Stanislaw Wigura. This is the biggest aviation tragedy that happened in the times of peace in Cieszyński Silesia. To mention the dead airmen, we should mention the history of their tragic death and the successes they have achieved in international aviation. 28 August 1932 was a great day of Polish aviation. Polish airmen, Captain. pilot Franciszek Pebble and Eng. Stanisław Wigura, on a Polish plane RWD-6, won a spectacular victory in Berlin's International Tourist Plane Competition Challenge 1932, defeating more than 40 air crews. In Warsaw more than 100,000 were waiting for our crew to return. People. Polish airmen have become gods. In Berlin, however, Żwirko promised Czech pilots that in September he would fly to them for the festival of aviation. On Sunday, 11 September, RWD-6 took off from the airport in Krakow and flew towards Brno. That's where the landing was supposed to take place. The Avionette passed by Cieszyn and flew over Czechoslovakia, but just abroad she fell into a terrible storm. The airmen decided to return to Poland. Unfortunately, there was a violent storm over the hill Kościelec in Cierlick. With unexpected force, he struck a plane that lost its wing and fell to the ground without steering. The funeral of Pebble and Wigura with the participation of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, President Ignacy Mościcki, hundreds of delegation of airmen and thousands of Warsawans began in the morning of 16 September in the church of St. The cross. Franciszek Żwirko and Stanisław Wigura were buried in the Alley of the Decent in the Powęzkowski Cemetery in Warsaw. Today, in many places you can find traces commemorating excellent airmen. One of them is definitely the place of the plane crash, Cierlicko, where every year we meet at the solemn Mass, followed by celebrations commemorating the tragedy under the monument erected for aviation heroes. Cooperation with the president of the local circle of the Polish Cultural and Educational Union in Cierlick, Mr Tadeusz Smugala, results in an increasing distribution of celebrations, which gather not only Poles, but also Czech citizens. After the war, the place commemorating the death of pilots was renovated, and in 1950 a monument was erected there, which reminds us of death every year, but also about the tragedy of the loss of two wonderful pilots for Polish aviation. It is worth a look at Cierlick around 11 November each year, where these celebrations are held. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u543	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. This is Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the heads of various institutions of Lubuskie land. These are: the president and the crew of the energy district, among others. the district of Krosnieński, the district commandant of the State Fire Department of this district, the bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters, police officers, Border Guards, medical rescue workers, the hospital of the district Krosnieńska land and the Lubuskie land. I address you with my thanks for the effective, yet extremely difficult conditions, rescue and rescue action during and after Ksawery's passage. It turns out that the natural reality, despite the bubblingness of people and their belief that they dominate everything, sometimes brings us to the real dimension of what we are facing the power of nature. This is what happened in the last days, on October 5th, when our area was visited by the Orc of Ksawery. It was awful. People stopped on the road, on extinguished trains, scared, not sure what would happen, cars pushed into ditches or hit by falling trees or their branches, broken roofs of houses, knocked down hundreds of trees and energy lines, telephones, omnipotent darkness and lack of communication. Uncertainty grew. And the state, and I are easily able to recreate it from memory, but it happened only a week ago. In my view, there is a kind of reflection about the sense of technical enslavement that we have become. It turns out that we're very dependent on whether there's electricity, whether there's a range, or if there's light on. The modernity in which we have been living for a long time has deprived us of basic habits, self-help in such a situation. Therefore, fear in such circumstances is greater than the real state of danger. Our infirmity engulfs circles, strengthened not only by the real power of nature, but also by our helplessness and our expectation that there are servants, others who should act for us. I trust you understand what I'm trying to say. On the one hand, there are objective difficulties, on the other, our human helplessness. more due to the need to confront the hardships of ourselves and the expectation that others, the servants for us, will do something or do something. With such events it is also so that after the passing of violent winds, the fallout of the morning shows a great deal of devastation. That's what happened this time. True, your units and services began their rescue activities in the hour of events, but the darkness of the night engulfed much in the veil of mystery, which in a cruelty appeared with the birth of a new day. So it is that in the following days after the orcing, people will slowly gather together, licking their wounds, repairing what is in their power and possession. However, many actions and works naturally fall on the services of the state, specialised organisations and institutions. So it was you who, for many days to come, had to grasp, repair, put up a great deal again. Unfortunately, it was not without the words and comments of those indicted that they were free to do so on this side of the village, because our side is more important that they do not do anything there, without taking into account absolutely neither the scope of the work you had to do, nor the extent of the area they concerned. In conclusion, I express my gratitude for your actions and appreciation for their efficiency. Thank you for the sacrifice and the effort you have made to save the inhabitants of the affected areas and to help them. This is good for both your formations, institutions and organizations, as well as the attitude of the members of those who were fully involved in the relief and repair operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u545	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A month ago, we said goodbye to Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Czachor, a longtime research worker of the Centre for Nuclear Research, one of the leading participants of the Civic Movement for the Unimandate Election Districts, an outstanding scholar, an active social activist, a patriot, a wonderful man. I was honored to pay my last homage to the Professor by attending funerals. In my memory, Professor Czachor will remain one of the most important figures, thanks to which the idea of one-mandate electoral districts emerged in Poland, which thanks to his efforts spread in the public consciousness and gained a lot of sympathizers. In addition to his scientific work, which he was extremely devoted to, as evidenced by his works, lectures, publications that are a source of valuable knowledge, he has been actively involved in social activities since his early years. In high school, as a student, he sold independent leaflets, and then under the subterranean ZSolidarity, he kept and sold banned literature. If we add to this the incredible modesty that characterized your professor, we will get a picture of a man brave, socially mature, faithful to his ideals. These features have resulted in active activities for the introduction of one-mandate electoral districts. He supported the movement with his knowledge, experience, speeches, numerous publications, as well as the organisation of seminars on civic knowledge. Activities to raise public awareness, paying attention to current social problems were a real mission for him, a passion he was enthusiastic about. Unimandate electoral districts implement the constitutional principle that it is society that is sovereign, and allow for greater power to be put into the hands of the nation. Unimandate electoral districts guarantee the simplicity and transparency of elections, as well as the responsibilities of voters. Politicians elected in a system of one-mandate electoral districts are not anonymous, and voters know exactly who is elected from their electoral districts. We're gonna miss your professor, his wisdom, his integrity, his social sensitivity. May our thanks be to continue the achievements of Prof. Czachor, his work for the development of civil society, greater awareness of direct democracy and the dissemination of its instruments. I would also like to read to the High House a passage from a letter published in 2000, and how still up-to-date: miners, anesthesiologists, nurses, farmers - each protesting group demands direct contact with the government, necessarily with the government. Yet the government is the executor of decisions adopted by the Sejm. Why, then, do citizens not turn to Members with problems? Why do social conflicts not have their representation in the Sejm, the most important control power, the legislative power? Why do we not see energetic groups there demanding resolutions in the interests of their territories or environments? Why does the conflict in the state not prevent the well-informed and far-sighted Sejm? We see for the time no longer know which, that the Sejm is not a mechanism for the transmission of citizens' expectations and postulates between society and the government in Poland, is not a centre of social mediation. The loud elections of political parties, a market of vanity, followed by a majority of Members falling asleep for four years. Contacts with citizens, but why? This alienation gives rise to the recruitment of Members. Comparisons, proportional electoral ordination. Contrary to some appearances, we choose parties, not people. Here's another piece. There is an electoral ordination that provides a strong bond between a Member and a citizen who forces the responsibility of a Member. This majority ordination, based on one-mandate electoral districts, applied in most democratic countries, which by no means eliminates the parties, only makes them seek the trust of the citizens very much. Its mechanism is simple: in each electoral district, among many candidates, citizens of this district choose to be members of one [[♪ The bell ♪]] The one who got the most votes. A man is chosen, not a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u547	Thank you. Mrs Catherine Czochar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that between 9 and 15 October we are celebrating International Letter Writing Week. As the Skalds sang, the world has at least 1000 villages and cities, a letter in life is written at least once. Unfortunately, the tradition goes for sophisticated letter papers, often perfumed, and the pen was expelled by modern means of communication, such as SMS, emails or social networks. Now we have no time to write letters or wait for the letter to reach us. Maybe in a few years, just a week of writing letters will remind us of the traditional form of communication. Today, in the age of digitalization and time of the Internet or phones, if anything we read, it is usually official writings. Not only is writing on paper itself forgotten, but also the whole etiquette and celebration associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to quote the words of Kornel Makuszyński: Every letter is as if it were to guide what is inside it, just as the content of the heart is reflected on the face of a simple man. Every letter has a face. How many times, having taken a letter into his hand, a man without reason, because he did not expect any bad news, felt fear... His hands tremble and wait for him to open. How many times! Then in a letter like a paper coffin there are almost always words such as dead or something in it cry black tears. On the contrary! Sometimes a letter comes in like a fluttering pigeon, hugging his hands, fondling, smiling and impatient as if he wanted to be opened sooner, because he has a surprising happiness to declare, to shout out a radiant word. Then it always rains on your heart a flame or on your lips like a flower a kiss. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you stop for a moment and write a letter? Maybe the person we're very close to? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u549	Thank you. Mr Michał Cieślak will be the last to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Given the subject of the flickers in the Sejm raised by Mr Paweł Kukiz, I am convinced that the majority of parliamentarians are satisfied with strong will. However, I am amazed that the Kukiz environment15 does not see many of the major problems of the state. Therefore, for a change, I would like to propose that we equip the stationary fuel stations with breathalyzers. This will enable drivers and citizens to carry out the survey in an unfettered, accessible way, which can make a significant contribution to road safety. I intend to submit a proposal to the competent minister and propose such a solution to the Management Board of PKN Orlen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-12-sejm-49-3.u551	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 13 October 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. I wish you all a quiet night. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 45]]
