ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u1	Resume session. I am calling Margaret Golinska and Piotr Olszówka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Małgorzata Golińska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury - at 3 p.m. 11.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u3	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I have decided to move to the next session of the Sejm the third reading of the draft law amending the law on arms and ammunition. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, there are formal requests. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask the Marshal to announce a break, to convene the Seniors' Convention and to decide on the removal from the agenda of item 20., the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate Act on the amendment of the Act on the Social Security System. Law and Justice have already accustomed us to breaking the law, breaking the constitution under the cover of the night, but that shoe and arrogance went on. Today you want to break the law on your day. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] During the day, during the day. And that's the top. Mr. Marshal! You are appealing to us to maintain the seriousness of the Sejm. And what about the action of your marshal allowing you to proceed with a bill that wasn't voted out in the Senate? I would like to remind you that there was no quorum needed to vote on this amendment. [[Voice from the room: It was.]] [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] Only 48 senators voted. I can count, and you think it's going wrong. The Quorum is 50 senators. Therefore, the club The state-of-the-art has filed a notice to the prosecution that there is a suspicion that you committed a crime by Marshal Koc, who has abused her powers by allowing the vote and adoption of this amendment to 48 voters without obtaining a quorum. Mr. Marshal! Please take this case seriously because it's breaking the law in broad daylight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's against the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u5	It's against the law. [[Against what?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that Mr Meysztowicz has never sat in the Senate, and no one from the Modern Senate is sitting in the Senate, because he may then have knowledge of the rules of the Senate Chamber. Quorum in the Senate, sir, is determined on the basis of the number of people present in the Chamber. And it's written in the rules. [[Applause]] The Senators of the Civic Platform were in the O.R., but they took the cards out of the readers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation here is as follows: the formal proposal has been tabled, so we are voting on the adjournment, but I am not calling the Seniors Convention because the Sejm cannot resolve such issues with regard to the Senate. The President may decide here, he may sign or not sign the bill, and then the Constitutional Tribunal may decide that question. So that here I would ask you to consider that the Sejm cannot judge the Senate's decisions, all the more so because, as we hear here, the interpretation of the quorum may be, say, different. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Just a formal motion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to join you in the request for an hour's break for the president of the cabinet's cabinet of shadows of Mr. Grzegorz Schetin, so that within one hour he may dismiss the Minister of National Defence in the shadows of Thomas Semoniak... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...in connection with the information we obtain and receive in Poland, related to caracals. Ladies and gentlemen! If not for the present Minister of National Defence, we would be in a very similar situation with the servicing of equipment and we would have a very unfavourable offset agreement. [[Bravo, Minister!]] [[Marshal: Mr, I'm sorry. Mr...]] I'm telling you, if in an hour... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Some Members chant: Dismiss! Dismissed! Dismissed!]] [[Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u9	Mr President, I am so sorry, this is not a formal proposal that we can vote on because it does not concern the agenda. Thank you very much. Formal conclusion. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause]] Mr Jacek Protasiewicz has a formal application. Please leave the speaker, sir. Please, sir. [[But a formal application may be made.]] Please leave the podium. [[What's this?]] Mr Jacek Protasiewicz has the floor. There you go. [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! [[But the minister with his hand in his pocket?]] Yesterday was a very good initiative, submitted by the Seniors' Convention, so that the Sejm would adopt a resolution commemorating the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. Therefore, as a result of the opposition of one Member, the entire initiative to commemorate this important event in the history of Europe, as well as to pay tribute and respect to Polish Protestants disappeared from the agenda. I therefore propose on the basis of Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3, in order for you to announce a recess, to convene the Seniors' Convention and to re-introduce this resolution with a discussion in today's proceedings. And now for a brief reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u11	But the request for a break has already been made, so thank you very much. You're repeating a motion that's already been filed. We're about to vote on it. Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 165 votes against - 235. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Formal conclusion.]] Let me remind you that we have already voted on the formal proposals. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What is this now?]] [[Formal proposal, Member enlisted in the formal proposal.]] [[But how? The formal conclusion is, no.]] I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 Law on waste other wording of paragraph. 4 and the addition of paragraph 4. 4a-4d. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. The vote was 231 against 187. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. The Senate tabled an amendment to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Social Cooperatives Act. In this amendment to the article. 15b The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3a providing that a cooperative consortium may be joined by religious legal entities active in the field of social and professional reintegration. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 418 Members voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Insurance Distribution. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes in the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments in Article. 29a paragraph. 9 repeal point 3 and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and the placing of plant protection Amendments 2 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 4, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. 1 Member voted against - 416. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add a transitional provision. Amendment 5 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Social Security System and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 4th amendment to the article. The Senate proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2019. Amendments 1 to 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u12	High Izbo! The Senate amendment is nothing more than a repetition of the minority proposal of the Civic Platform, which PiS rejected two weeks ago. The point is that we are delaying the entry into force of harmful laws by a year. The bad guys, because they take the middle guys, and they don't put the gold in the poor guy's pocket. Harmful enough that employers with trade unionists in the common - I stress: the common - position did not leave dry thread on these regulations. They should not enter into force at all, because not only are they harmful, they have been taken with a legislative defect. 48 senators aren't 51. There is a new definition of quorum in this Seym and in this Senate. This is a thing that really scandalously spoils legislation. We lose respect for legislation, we lose respect for the law. You've destroyed the courts, local governments, leave alone at least... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u13	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Abramovich, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Those who can pay a contribution to the Social Security Office will not pay it for the next year, but those Poles who can certainly not pay this contribution, because their revenues are comparable to the lump sum contribution to the Social Security Office, will continue to be economically matched by the Polish State. This is not in line with the principles of a solidarity state. Prime Minister! You announced in April the Small ZUS Act for entrepreneurs, which was due to enter on 1 January 2018. When will this bill come into force? When are we going to have a situation where the state will be paying tribute to its citizens to the extent that they are able to pay it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u15	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice, you want to accept this amendment with the possibility of violating the law, because the ground is burning under your feet, because you understand that it is not possible to implement these solutions with a new year, because you understand that opposition, trade unions, representatives of entrepreneurs, and representatives of the Social Security Office, when they said it was a bad solution, were right. Mr President, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are identical and the quorum is calculated on the basis of the votes made. The opposition senators clearly reported that there was no quorum in the courtroom. Our task as Members of the Republic of Poland is not to count the senators present or not in the Senate. It is our duty to consider that the law may have been broken. We can appeal to the President not to sign this bill, but we can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] legitimize violations of the law. And that's why... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u17	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Mr Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Senate representative. I don't think he's here. But why did you set up an extension of the vacathio legis only for a year, not for example. 10 years? After all, this law actually raises taxes. I have said this several times and it is necessary to repeat it to Poles so that Poles are aware that you raise taxes, even though you said you would not raise them. And Mrs. Lover, I say we're used to it. [[Member.]] ...that all our good billings and corrections PiS simply steals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u19	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's amendments from 1 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. The absolute majority is 201. Everyone voted against - 400 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendments unanimously. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We'll proceed to the vote... Excuse me, I'll let you know about the amendment first. In the first amendment to Article. 108d Act on VAT on goods and services The Senate proposes that, after paragraph 108d. 1 plus a new paragraph. Amendments 2, 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Against 419 votes, in favour - 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 62c of the Banking Act The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 7.9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 of the Act on Payment Services The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 6 and 8 to 10. The Senate proposes other time limits for the introduction of certain regulations and for the Act to enter into force on 1 July 2018. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are the only country that entrusts a split payment split payment to the VAT account and transfers it to the banks. It's a giant free money in their accounts instead of the finance minister's accounts, instead of really yours. The justification for such an amendment, such a decision was the time necessary for implementation, which is clearly fiction today, because this is another change of deadline. I'd like to ask who's the author of this idea to keep banks running these bills. Who's Santa Claus? Who gives such gifts to banks and skoks for Christmas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're such a joke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u21	The committee's rapporteur? [[He doesn't know.]] Is anybody here from the Senate? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no one from the Senate. Would Mr Uściński like to answer this question? Mr Piotr Uściński, draftsman of the committee, right? There you go. [[Let him tell you how much work it's gonna be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We don't give anybody presents. This bill... [[But for words like that, you can get punished.]] ...is a law that fights the VAT mobs, the mobs who extorted billions of dollars from the state budget. And this bill is a bill that will lead to... [[Why banks?]] ...for the liquidation of VAT carousels, the final elimination of these VAT carousels. Banks, ma'am... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Will you answer about it?]] ...to work with the government in the drafting of this bill. And the banks aren't gonna make money on it. [[Voice from the room: Please respond.]] The banks will be able to... [[Voice from the room: Second BZ WBK.]] ...to give interest to entrepreneurs from money that is placed on VAT accounts. Therefore, it will be a normal service provided to recipients and it will be on market terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u23	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Correct, Marshal.]] No. You have no grounds for correction. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But what is not?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 8 to 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. He voted 1, against - 420. The Sejm accepted the amendments. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 54th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to join the list? There you go. If no one comes forward, I'm closing the list. He's the first to report... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm still here for the statement, right? There you go, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz has also submitted to the statement. I'm closing the list. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-member, will be the first to speak. Mr Winnicki resigns. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 43 hours 10 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. I invite you to make a statement by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask your Members and members of the Government to silence their talks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Wilkowice, a small village near Leszno in Wielkopolska, a group of enthusiasts decided to set up the Association of Friends of Lipien Land, which became a very active organization bringing together the inhabitants of Wilkowice and neighbouring towns. Ladies from the Wilkowice Village Circle are the heart of this association, which has taken the main objective of cultivating the tradition of the village of Wielkopolska. Not long ago, I had the privilege of attending the opening of the Regional Chamber of Culture and Rural Tradition. It was founded with the support of the parish priest Wilkowice, Fr. Maciej, who gave up the farm building located in the parish of the church of St. St. Martin. After several months of intensive work, it was possible to adapt the room to the Regional Chamber of Culture and Rural Tradition mentioned just now - as emphasized by the members of the association, as well as visitors - so much needed to pass on the legacy of our grandparents and great-grandparents to future generations. This regional chamber will serve to store exhibits referring to our culture and tradition. The president of the association Mr.Sylwester Drogny emphasized, and I quote: Through this Chamber we would like to show in part how much physical effort the peasants in the countryside had to do to secure the well-being of their families, on which equipment they worked, the progress and development of the techniques and craftsmen who worked in the countryside. They were mainly the authors of technical progress in agriculture. Thanks to creativity, diligence and great involvement of members of the association and residents not only Wilkowic, but also the communes created this magnificent facility. When men were approaching the end of construction work inside the building, the ladies of the Village Circle had already prepared exhibits for the exhibition and carried out cleaning work, as it is always after the renovation - you emphasized Sylvester Roadway. The Regional Chamber of Culture and Rural Tradition connects the past with today, and this is confirmed by a beautiful mural decorating the building by Magdalena and Filip Rozynków. At this point, I have to raise a sensitive issue, namely the role of the municipal authorities and the Lipna, who, instead of supporting the association's activities, is looking for various activities to make the association's activities more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes wide, look around you and see this beautiful work, which is the Association of Friends of the Lipene Land, and people who are socially active in commemorating this great work, whose name is the history of the Polish village, the history of Wilkowice. And if you don't want to support the work of the Wilkowic community, at least don't bother. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A few days ago, at the Bazar Poznański hotel in Poznań, there was a gala of the competition "Activities worthy of attention." In addition to listening to the great concert of the Pro Musica Foundation from Leszno, guests could also learn about the sources of funding for local activities prepared by Mr Piotr Kotlark from the PISOP Centre. During the gala one of the winners of the competition was the Association of Friends of Lipien Land for the adaptation of economic buildings to the Regional Chamber of Culture and Rural Tradition. I would like to congratulate all those who contributed to this success, especially Mr Sylvester Przydrojny, the treasurer Annie Kuczkowska-Podgrodzka, the secretary of Dorota Andrzejewska and the members of the board of directors of Mr Mark Kozłowski and Mieczysław Taciak. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I sincerely congratulate you, and at the same time declare that I am at your disposal with my assistant, Mrs Joanna Nawrot, as well as with Mr Piotr Paterczyk and Mr Tomasz Five. Ladies and gentlemen, see you in Wilkowice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club, will now make a statement. There's no envoy. Mr Paul... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Bestwina and Czechowice-Dziedzice are the municipalities of the district of Bielsko. As a result, the police are subject to the Bielsko-Biała Police Command, but as regards the prosecution's conduct of investigations and other actions and the conduct of court cases, they are subject to supervision by the Pszczyna Departments and not in Bielsko-Biała. The inhabitants of these municipalities have often drawn my attention to problems that have occurred for many years in cooperation between the courts and the prosecutors in Pszczyna with the police and public authorities in Bielsko-Biała. Frequent problems in cooperation have a bearing on the quality of these activities. They often affect citizens who lose hope that their case will be dealt with properly. In this respect, I would ask you to respond to these expectations and to examine in depth the possibilities of this problem, as well as to consider handing the municipalities of Bestwin and Czechowice-Dziedzice under the authority of the prosecutor's office and the court in Bielsko-Biała. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It wasn't that long ago that we made Christmas wishes here with the card. We'll soon sit at Christmas tables and then at Christmas tables. On this occasion, to all of you gathered in the Chamber, but also to those who will listen to these words through electronic media, I wish you a peaceful, joyful, healthy, family Christmas to spend this time in such an atmosphere that will fill you with positive, good energy. And then a happy new year 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u29	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, the Seniors Convention came out with a very valuable initiative to celebrate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation in the House with a special commemorative resolution. Such resolutions are often taken by this House on various occasions and I must say in very strong and hard words that it is more than a shame, unless I say it is a disgrace that we have adopted in this House a resolution commemorating the National Armed Forces, including the controversial fates of the Świętokrzyski Brigade - it was accepted in this House by acclamation, I will mark, without my physical participation - and it lacked courage, lacked the will to adopt a very reasonable, very subdued and very balanced resolution referring to the historic event which was the announcement of Luther 500 years ago, and its consequences for both European culture and Polish culture. In short, in the Seym we had the will to honor the figures controversial from our history, and there was no will to pay tribute to Poles such as Mikołaj Rej, Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski, General Józef Sowiński, Juliusz Konstanty Ordon or even Stefan Żeromski, Marshal Piłsudski or gene. Władysław Anders. I understand that to this day in Polish public space, in Polish tradition, in thinking about Poland, about our homeland, there are two traditions: one which refers to the I Republic of Poland, multinational, multicultural, tolerant, rich in diversity, and the other in which Polishness is understood very narrowly, based solely on ethnic and religious criteria. But thinking about Poles in categories only Pole - the Catholic is very dangerous and counterfeits true Polish history, perverts Polish tradition. The coronal argument that we heard from the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, who opposed this resolution yesterday, was that we must not honor the event that led to the division in the Church. I would like to say that the Sejm is a secular institution, the Polish state is a secular state. Neither the Synod nor the Council gathered here to settle religious matters. But even if the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, and in particular Mrs Siarkowska, try to use such arguments, I refer to a very wise, very balanced letter, which on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the birth of Martin Luther sent the Holy Father, then John Paul II, to the Protestant community in Europe. It is necessary to follow this way of thinking and this argument, not the way of thinking closer to xenophobic, nationalistic tradition of the National and Radical Camp. Indeed, I must say that I feel more and more often that the words of Tuwim, which he included in his poem, Polish flowers, about the fact that small-towned little bastards, already Catholics, are ruling on the street, but not Christians, are increasingly suited to the current situation of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Let's start with each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u31	Mr Marian Zembala, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This year in world medicine was famous as a special year due to the anniversary of the first heart transplant in the world, which he performed on December 3, 1967 at the clinic in Cape Town Christiaan Barnard. Thanks to him, his ideas developed in various countries saved hundreds of thousands of people, whose other treatment could not help in the event of severe heart damage. Let's get our heads down. I would like this strong signal of appreciation, respect and thanks to the electronic media for Christiaan Barnard, his team and all the transplantologists who are continuing this work, to be heard in particular. Among the assistants was the brother, Marius Barnard, but also Francois Hitchcock, the same who later in Utrecht after World War II was the leader in the free operation of Polish children. Let's get our heads down. We are also talking about this gift with appreciation, joy and satisfaction. Today we help children and adults so much, saving them in Kosovo, Ukraine. We show a strong Polish, Christian, Catholic signal of sharing with the needy. Among those who so beautifully took the initiative of Prof. Barnard, was Prof. Zbigniew Religa, my mentor, teacher and friend who instilled in us this idea of saving life, which will be timeless, and so much supported me when I started the first transplant of heart and lungs in Poland. Today in centers in Zabrze, Warsaw, Krakow, Poznań, Szczecin we continue his work and rescue him. I also want to thank Professor Religa and others, Professor Moll, on this occasion. At the end of the reflection. I am always in this House and I have been in favour of peace, reconciliation and cooperation. In this spirit, as a Catholic, as a Christian, I believe that this wise House, the people who sit in it, will notice in an ecumenical way, like John Paul. II, the work of the Reformation that strengthened the Church. This is also beautifully mentioned by the present Pope Francis. If from this perspective we look at the strengthening of the Church, then any local animosity, if any, will disappear. I also bow to the leaders of the Reformation from Marshal Piłsudski through Żeromski, to the Prime Minister of Buzek, because as a Catholic, I repeat once again, a practicing Catholic, a Christian believe in the power and power of God, who so directs us, that we can always see love and reconciliation among our fellowmen. Mr. Marshal! Sir! Gentlemen! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u33	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last meeting of the Sejm we voted, the majority of the Sejm voted because we were against the law introducing mandatory ZUS contributions on salaries higher than 30 times the average salary per year. The Constitutional Tribunal was destroyed, courts, now it's time for our pension system. The provisions of the Act still in force state that after exceeding annual income above 30 times the average salary, this year it amounts to about 127 thousand. gross, which gives a salary of approx. PLN 6700 per month, we talk about such money, from this sum no social security contributions are collected. The State, Law and Justice, by introducing mandatory contributions from the Social Security Office to higher salaries, only cares for a temporary increase in revenue to the budget, because you calculated that this will increase revenue by about PLN 5 billion next year. But this is a lack of responsibility for future generations. Every responsible government should think first of all about the future. These high pensions, which will result from this, because the higher the contributions, the higher the pensions, of course, will have to pay our children. And all you're thinking about is next year's election year. And what, for example? With the father of four children with an unworkable wife? In order to keep the house, the family, he often has to earn two jobs, earning more than 30 times the average salary. Such a person will also have to pay the higher ZUS. This will mean a significant reduction in remuneration for such a person. The entry into force of this law will result in a huge gap in the amount of pensions paid in the future. Can we afford to pay a pension of about $40,000? In a dozen years? This is indecent, especially when we consider that most pensions in a dozen years will oscillate around PLN 1500 per month. The Social Security Office is already in debt, and where will it get the money for these huge pensions in the future? Or is it possible that the PiS state is simply planning to download from these people who are earning this 5 billion better so they can be next year, because you don't have to cover your commitments, and then announce that there will be a citizen's pension and everything equally, and you want to deceive those people who are going to pay these high pension contributions now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u35	Now you have the floor of Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the day yesterday, the Sejm adopted a resolution expressing appreciation for the National Department. Ossolinski. She didn't sound, she went through something like that, I would say, and I would like to emphasize this fact, because this is the 200th anniversary, in October there was a celebration of the 200th anniversary of the creation and existence of this extremely important humanist institution. I know that we live every day, we live things that are very important, but a man without humanities, without a book, becomes poor and in some way very poor. And this is a special facility. It was created thanks to huge resources, but also to the collections provided by the Hr. Józef Maximilian Ossoliński, who also took care to obtain a legal seat with Emperor Francis I, in 1817, and since 1818 in Lviv there was a plant. He was such a breeze of freedom for Poles during the period of captivity, such a place where research could be conducted, mainly on literature. Then comes a terrible time of war, and the director of that time brings out a large part of the harvest. Then these collections are transported to Wrocław, where to this day the National Plant im. Ossolinski exists. And not only does it exist, but it's developing great. It's a big, beautiful, modern publishing house. Research is being carried out. There's a huge, wonderful National Library. There's finally the Tadeusz Museum. I think it's worth it for every Pole to know that this is the anniversary we celebrate, that he knows that he can use these priceless treasures at any time. And it is not only scientists, each of us can reach out to this legacy of history, a legacy created, one can say, under very difficult conditions, which we should certainly care for today, express our appreciation, but not only, express our concern and help with further wonderful development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-15-sejm-54-4.u37	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 54th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Agenda of the 55th meeting of the Sejm, appointed on 9 and 10 January 2018, and agenda The 56th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 11 January 2018, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 11 min 08]]
