ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Mr Daniel Milewski and Ms Elżbieta Zielińska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Daniel Milewski will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Elżbieta Zielińska. Members have come forward with formal proposals. [[Voice from the room: Oh, no.]] As the first Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. [[Applause]] [[Art. 184.]] [[Surprise us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm apply for a break for the PiS club. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yesterday showed that you are ruled by a man sick of hatred and a desire for revenge. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Calm down.]] [[Why are you still warming up the atmosphere?]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] You allow this, so I ask you: When will patriotism prevail in you with conformism? When will you stop destroying Poland because of the desire for revenge of one man? When are you gonna get over this sick fascination? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, control the room.]] When will you understand what's good for your people? When will there be the first righteous man to come out of this hate camp? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Rule in the O.R. We want to do our job.]] I appeal to your responsibility for Poland. Conservatives used to mean responsibility for the state. Stop being puppets! This is the last moment. Poland is looking at you. I say this on behalf of traitorous murders, scumbags, and a worse sort. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u3	With a proposal... [[Here he is, reporting.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's against the law. That conclusion is completely absurd. A patient man like Jarosław Kaczyński is not in this Seym. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You insult him, you challenge him, you insult his memory. President Lech Kaczyński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: You are the one who is insulting.]] It's outrageous what you're doing. You're provoking, and now you're complaining that after all these years of insulting, there have been delicate words of truth. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u5	With a formal proposal from Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Surprise us with something. Take a surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess. It is clear that the parliamentary debate already has such an emotional level that we are not able to work substantively on the Supreme Court Act. [[Then don't get emotional.]] The words of Jarosław Kaczyński point to this... [[The voice from the room: you led to it.]] [[Because of you.]] ...which clearly show what is the main motive for working on the Law on the Elimination of the Supreme Court. It's a tool for political revenge. I would like to remind you of a few facts. [[Don't repeat yourself.]] Dawid Jackiewicz, former Minister of Treasury in the current government of Beata Szydło, during the previous government of PiS... [[But what does that have to do with anything?]] ...in 2006 he participated in a fight that led to the death of a homeless man. The piss policy got into a struggle with her, pushed him... [[Shame. He was defending a woman, a wife, a child! What do you know about it?]] ...this homeless man's head smashed into concrete. And then what did the Attorney's Office do? [[What does that have to do with anything?]] She dropped the party buddy case, even though a man was killed after a fight with him. [[Member Krystyna Pavłowicz hits the desktop with his hand]] Another case: Marcin Dubieniecki, ex-husband of Marta Kaczyńska. [[Marshal, what's going on?]] What did the D.A. do with Marcin Dubiecki's confiscated Porsche? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ziobra's office gave the car to keep Dubiecki's father. These are the PiS standards. This is a mockery of the law, this is a mockery of justice. Does PiS want to use control of the courts just as much as it uses control of the D.A.'s office? Minister Ziobro has for years, despite the judgments of many courts ruling that there is no doctor's guilt, is launching new trials, wanting revenge on doctors at all costs... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...who did everything they could to save his sick father's life, but they just couldn't beat the disease. Zbigniew Ziobro, since he became Minister and Attorney General, has engaged the prosecution in harassing dozens of people - prominent cardiologists, but also experts. I will remind you that shortly after he took office, the district attorney's office suddenly performed at an hour. 6 a.m. raids on homes and families of forensic experts who gave independent but unconvinced opinions. Or is it just a coincidence that you're using control over [[♪ The bell ♪]] Courts... [[Time's up.]] ...to fight politically Zbigniew Ziobro won't use the courts... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] ...for private revenge on your father's doctors? That's what the courts are for! For private revenge. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u7	The opposite or the formal application? Mr. Marshal Brudziński. [[There's a sequence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a request under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to proceed immediately to the agenda. That's why I'm here. I would like to make a huge request to the heads of opposition clubs - President Richard Petru, President Grzegorz Schetin, to President Kosiniak-Kamish. Your Members, members of the clubs, come to the floor, make formal requests, justify these formal requests with alleged emotions. Yeah, those emotions really went overboard yesterday. [[Voice from the room: And it's because of you.]] These brutal and rude attacks on a man insulted for two years have crossed the line. [[Attacks?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Either we go on the agenda or we go on history as a parliament... [[We're through.]] ...from which pictures will be the same as those from the South Korean and Ukrainian Parliaments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If that is what you want, ladies and gentlemen, then really carry on with this festival of hatred. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u9	Thank you very much. We have a motion to proceed with the agenda, but before that... [[It's against the law.]] ...I shall put to the vote a request for a recess. [[Contrary to the application]] [[But I'm sorry...]] Please leave the podium. [[It's against the law.]] Mr. Meysztowicz, please leave the podium. [[Voices from the courtroom: Negative.]] [[The counterclaim, Sławek.]] We're going to vote on the request for a recess because he was earlier. [[But the motion is against it.]] Which one of you... We started... [[Voice in the courtroom: Contrast...]] [[Mr. Marshal, the counterclaim.]] ...vote. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. Let's move on to the vote. [[Negative, Mr. Marshal.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 176, against - 264, no one held back. The next motion is in favour of passing, in favour of accepting... I mean, now we have a vote on the party... [[Voices from the courtroom: Negative.]] ...a request to move on to the agenda. The opposite voice... [[But he's against it.]] ...Mr Neumann. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been breaking all standards and decency since yesterday. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What about ……]] Quiet, calm down, man. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're breaking all limits... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: This is the culture?]] ...you're crossing the next line of aggression, chaos, mess. I know that chaos and mess are your natural environment, but really the Sejm is a place of seriousness and I also wanted to appeal for this seriousness. And I want... [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] ...to appeal to you, Mr. President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Get off me.]] Calm down. Mr. President, yesterday... ...from this tribune were the disgraceful words, the disgraceful words, from your lips. We expect an apology in this House from this speaker. [[The voice in the room: Doesn't it hurt?]] We expect an apology. [[Applause]] No favors, no emotions... [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] ...or health reasons give them no right to such words or alibi them. [[You didn't apologize for the contempt industry.]] That's what you're saying to turn up the aggression and bring in the anarchy. You're gonna... [[I think it's you guys.]] ...responsible for possible later... [[Yes, sir. We're gonna sit down.]] You're gonna sit down, by the way, and that's gonna happen. Easy... [[And we'll hang.]] ...relax, Ziobro won't always be a prosecutor, Member. Not always. [[He's gonna be at the cafe.]] There'll be regular prosecutors and free, independent courts, and everything... [[You're gonna control it manually, aren't you?]] ... It's gonna be okay. But now it's more important. Mr. President, those are disgraceful words. They're disgraceful words. We expect an apology. We expect an apology... [[For the truth?]] ...also in the name of your brother's memory. [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] [[Provocator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u11	We're coming... [[Provocator.]] ...to vote. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to move on to the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 241, against - 192, the 7. [[Right until the third reading, Marshal.]] The Sejm accepted the proposal to move on to the agenda. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, [[Frontex]] signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017 The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The right committee... [[Where's the Marshal of the Seym?]] ...submitted a report on the bill amending the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. This is printing number 1746. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, - amending the Real Estate Management Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1745 and 1742 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers, i.e. Step 4. - Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up at Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016, i.e. Step 8. - Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński of 7 March 2017 for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Bartosz Kownacki, i.e. Point 13. - Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2016, together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, i.e. point 17. - First reading of the government draft law on amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, i.e. point 19. - Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury on the draft State Enterprise Act point 33. - Report of the Committee on National Defence on the Government bill amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Act on Public Procurement, i.e. Step 7. - Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Information System in Health and certain other laws, i.e. Point 11. - Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Tax Order, the Public Finance Act and the Law Introducing the Law on National Tax Administration, i.e. Point 12. - Report of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Parliament's draft resolution on commemorating the 40th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Anthony Baraniak, a soldier of the Incorruptible Church, i.e. Step 5. - First reading of the government draft power market law, i.e. Point 21. I would like to inform you that the following agenda items will not be considered at this sitting of the Sejm: - Report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016, i.e. Point 9. - Report from the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, i.e. Point 25. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Supreme Court. During the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. In view of the proposal to refer the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, an objection has been raised in order to submit a report. I will put to the vote the proposal to refer this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report on the proposal and amendments tabled. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, came forward before the vote on the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! 500 years of tradition of the rule of law in the Republic of Poland, January 2007. You signed off on it. Under this he also signed - under this very important declaration concerning the 500 years of the rule of law - your brother Lech Kaczyński, then acting as President of the Republic. [[Movement in the Chamber, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] [[Get away from the president!]] We confirm our deep attachment to tradition [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] and the principles of the democratic rule of law, determination to cultivate them, bearing in mind the great importance of the tradition of the rule of law for Poland and other countries of the European Union. How come you're leaving these values? How come... [[Vice-Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the movement in the Chamber]] ...about a sick judicial system...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u13	Mr President, you are asking the wrong person.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u14	I wanted to ask you a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u15	But who are you asking this question to? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Provocator! Provocator! Provocator!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u16	I'm asking you a question. [[Voice from the hall: You are not able to provoke us!]] [[Who wrote this to you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u17	But to whom? Who did you turn to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time's up, sir. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u18	I want to finish the question. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: But in what mode, Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: Question!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u19	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[The question he wanted to ask.]] [[But Breez hasn't asked a question yet.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that last night in this House showed us, as it were, that democracy does not mean that only the one who has the majority is right. [[Eight years old, most of you, and we were right.]] Last night, he showed that democracy without dialogue, without openness, also on the opinions of this minority...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u21	Mr President, you are asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u22	...without peace... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...this is a short path to anarchy. And so it was yesterday. [[Question!]] Marshal Brudziński says we'll make it to Korea. Mr. Marshal, I think we were on Korean level yesterday. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: What are you doing here?]] I have a question: When will you understand what democracy is based on? And finally, Mr. President... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, movement in the room, applause]] [[Get away from the president!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u23	Thank you very much. Time's up. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. [[But what is it?]] [[Voice from the room: Next provocator.]] I ask Members to address questions to the appropriate addressee, i.e. to the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! I bow down, provocator number two. [[Get out of here!]] Mr. Marshal, yesterday at the Sejm sitting, Mr. Marshal Brudziński prevented the normal functioning of the opposition from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u25	Mr President, you are asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u26	Excuse me, at the end, I'll ask... [[But what is it? Censor?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u27	Who are you asking this question to? [[Voice from the room: What is this censorship?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u28	But...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u29	Who are you asking this question to?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u30	To the committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u31	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u32	Will the committee's meeting continue to block the submission of amendments, will it continue to block the questioning? Because you showed yesterday that this is your target. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, the opposition was late.]] Therefore, I have a question: will you continue to act in such a way as to prevent the opposition from making amendments... [[Voice from the room: The opposition has overslept.]] ...and ask questions? I hope this situation from yesterday, Mr. Marshal, will never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question. What are you talking about? The rules are familiar. You don't know the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u33	The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask why this draft law on common courts is not addressed to the Legislative Commission as a basic committee to proceed and then to the Committee on Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u35	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Answer?]] [[And the answer?]] [[The question was.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the project to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for the presentation of the report would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. It was 434, against - 6, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted the proposal and therefore sent the proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for the presentation of a report. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. This report is printing 1747. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the current agenda for the meeting of the Sejm is available in the Sejm Information System. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, there isn't.]] Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u36	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Special Services, immediately after the votes; - Justice and Human Rights - immediately after the votes; - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10; - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12; - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12; - Economy and Development - h.m. 12; - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12.15; - Culture and Media - hour 12.30; - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13; - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13; - Legal notice - hour. 14; - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 2.30 p.m.; - Public Finance - hour. 15; - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15; - Health-- hour. 15; - Foreign Affairs - hour 16; - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 17; - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - immediately after the votes; - Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science - at 10 p.m. 15; - Parliamentary Friends' Team of the Royal City of Sandomierz - hour. 17. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u37	We proceed with the consideration of items 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda. 14. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016, together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2016 and a draft Commission resolution on discharge (prints No 1588, 1643 and 1721). 15. Report of the Committee on Public Finance on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the Treasury in 2016 by the President of the Council of Ministers, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (prints Nos 1566 and 1667). 16. Report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016 (print No 1614) together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance (print No 1662). I would like to ask Mr Sasino to submit a report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the state budget from 1 January to 31 December 2016 and a draft resolution on discharge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the implementation of the state budget in 2016, prints 1588 and 1721. First of all, I would like to recall the words of the chairman of the Committee on Public Finances, then Mr Andrzej Jaworski, who in his speech in plenary, where the second reading of the draft budget law for 2016 took place, recalled that the macroeconomic assumptions underlying the draft law were prepared on the basis of national and international data available in 2015. He added that these assumptions did not differ from those adopted by the previous government when he drew up a draft budget law for 2016. President Jaworski was aware that over time, and especially in the circumstances of international developments, these assumptions would be reviewed, which could mean that in practice not all variables would evolve as expected. At the same time, it is worth recalling that these projections were not optimistic, as experts pointed out in early 2016 that the Polish economy would continue to operate in a difficult external environment, which meant that it should, like other European economies, further prepare for the absorption of the effects of the anticipated dangerous scenario of the third phase of the crisis resulting from the risky debts of companies from countries such as China, Brazil, Turkey and Russia. From today's perspective, we can see that the 2016 budget was implemented in relatively favourable macroeconomic conditions, because the dangerous scenarios of international developments were not fulfilled, and also the positive effects of the government's economic and social policy began to emerge. In 2016, GDP growth at stable prices was 2.7% and was lower than assumed by 1.1 percentage points, but at the same time was 0.8 percentage points higher than in the European Union, where it was 1.9%. The external balance was maintained, there was an excess of exports over imports. The weakening of the rate of gold compared to previous years was conducive to an increase in exports, but on the other hand it did not serve to reduce the costs of handling the Treasury's debt. The current account deficit in the balance of payments developed at a low level and increased the value of foreign exchange reserves. The situation on the labour market was improving, as unemployment and employment were gradually falling. Only year-to-year deflation that persists over 10 months has not been conducive to a greater increase in budgetary revenue. Compared to the assumptions made, the investment that both governments, the government that prepared the draft budget - the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL - and the government of Law and Justice that took over the budget - were planning for 7% and the European Commission was planning for 5.5%. Instead, there was a decrease in investments of 7,9%. In this respect, the assumptions were overly optimistic, among others. underestimating the effect of changing the EU's financial perspective. I will now discuss the general situation of the budget in 2016. When assessing the overall situation of Polish public finances in 2016, it should be noted first of all that the deficit of the public finance sector calculated according to the national methodology increased from 2,4% GDP in 2015 to 2,5% GDP in 2016, i.e. slightly, given the lower than expected economic growth. During the year, the general government deficit was maintained below the 3% Treaty limit. GDP. This phenomenon is worth emphasising that the sector's deficit, which ultimately represents 2.4% GDP has taken place in the context of costly changes in social policy, including in particular the 500+ family programme. At the same time, public debt calculated according to the EU methodology did not exceed 60% GDP, albeit increased from 51.1% up to 54.4% GDP, mainly due to changes in exchange rates. To sum up, Poland in 2016 met the fiscal criteria applicable in Economic and Monetary Union, which should be considered a beneficial phenomenon. On the other hand, Poland's public finances still have weaknesses such as in previous years, and therefore the process of public finance reform should be continued consistently. Action is still needed to consolidate and improve the structure of Polish public finances. When assessing the implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget in 2016, it can be concluded that the revenue realised amounted to almost 314.7% billion PLN and they were higher than the original budget assumptions by PLN 875 million, i.e. 0.3%, and compared to 2015, it was higher by PLN 25.5 billion, i.e. by 8.8%. There was a change in the structure of income. The share of non-tax income without income from the European Union increased by 3.2 percentage points, while the share of tax revenue decreased by 3 percentage points. The increase in the share of non-tax revenues in total income was decided by the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland in 2016. - this was not the case in 2015. - and high one-off revenues recorded in 2016 for the so-called frequency reservation. the digital dividend, i.e. approx. PLN 9.2 billion. In 2016, revenue from value added tax amounted to PLN 126.6 billion and was slightly lower, by PLN 2.1 billion, from the amount forecasted in the Budget Act. This means that the implementation of the forecast of VAT revenue contained in the Budget Act was implemented at 98.4%. However, compared to 2015, VAT revenues were 2,8% higher. One of the reasons for the non-performance of VAT revenue forecast in the 2016 Budget Act and the relatively low increase in VAT revenue compared to previous years were the increased payment of systemic reimbursements to businesses in December 2016. In such a situation, in order to properly assess VAT receipts in 2016, the rate of change in tax revenue should be compared with the rate of change in the macroeconomic VAT base, the comparison of VAT receipts on an accrual basis applied by Eurostat, which is comparable to the methodology used for assessing national accounts. In 2016, VAT revenues on an accrual basis of ESA 2010 amounted to PLN 131 billion and were higher by PLN 5.2 billion, i.e. 4.1% , in relation to revenue in 2015 At the same time, in 2016 we had a significant improvement in the so-called. tax collection. This effect can be estimated at about PLN 3 billion in 2016. A number of measures taken by the Ministry of Finance to improve the efficiency of VAT collection, including legislative measures concerning, inter alia, the improvement of tax collection. the modification of the conditions of operation of the reverse charge mechanism and the extension of its scope to include transactions involving electronics products, the introduction of an obligation to report monthly records and the entry into force of the so-called. the fuel and energy package. In 2016, excise revenue amounted to PLN 65,7 billion and amounted to 102,6% forecasts from the budget law. Compared to 2015, excise revenue increased by PLN 2.9 billion, i.e. 4.7%. The increase in revenue as compared to planned and for 2015 has been noted in all major items, including energy products, tobacco and alcohol and passenger cars, and has resulted, among others. from the legal changes introduced in 2016, the actions of the control services aimed at combating the grey zone and the increased demand for consumption. In 2016, higher revenues from gambling tax and income taxes were achieved than planned in the Budget Act and higher revenues from gaming tax and income taxes than in 2015. And so the proceeds from the gaming tax amounted to PLN 1.4 billion, which was 101.7% the forecasts from the Budget Act, while compared to the 2015 implementation, these revenues were 5.2% higher. The revenues from personal income tax were realised at the amount of PLN 48,2 billion and were higher than planned by 2,9%. , and by 7.1% compared to 2015. At the same time, corporate income tax revenues were realised in the amount of PLN 26.4 billion, which was 101.2% plan for 2016 and 102,2% revenue realised in 2015. In 2016 it was not possible to achieve in the planned amount of tax on the extraction of certain fossils, tax on certain financial institutions and tax on large-area shops - the implementation was lower than the plan by a total amount of PLN 4.2 billion. At the same time, this loss was compensated for by non-tax revenues above planned, mainly from a higher contribution from the NBP's profit and from revenue from state budget units and other non-tax revenues. In the budget law, the expenditure of the state budget is planned at PLN 368.5 billion. This limit has not changed despite the double amendment of the Budget Act. State budget expenditure amounted to PLN 360.8 billion in 2016, of which PLN 750 million accounted for expenditure shifted to implementation in 2017. The expenditure implemented was lower by PLN 7.7 billion compared to the amount set out in the 2016 Budget Act, which represented 2.1% expenditure planned. Among the expenditures that have been made to the lowest extent compared to the post-change plan, there are funds allocated to co-financing projects involving European Union funds - PLN 3.3 billion, current expenditure of budgetary units - PLN 1.4 billion and property expenditure - PLN 0.6 billion. Most of the unused funds - approx. PLN 3 billion - were included in the special provisions for co-financing projects implemented with European funds, which resulted mainly from savings resulting from the tender procedures carried out, the transfer of project implementation to the following financial year and the savings under the funds planned directly in the budgetary parts of the individual authorising officers. Compared to 2015, the expenditure of the state budget in 2016 was higher by PLN 29.1 billion, i.e. 8.8%. The implementation of the expenditure was ensured, among others.: financing the government's priority task in the field of family policy, i.e. The 500+ family programme; the introduction of free medicines for people aged 75 or over; the increase in wages for workers groups which since 2010 have, in principle, been covered by the so-called 'free medicines'. freezing wages; payment of one-off cash allowances to certain pensioners and pensioners; financing of restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector and raising national defence expenditure to 2% GDP. The deficit of the state budget amounted to PLN 46.2 billion. It turned out to be lower by PLN 8.6 billion, i.e. 15.7% , in relation to the planned. The implementation of the basic size of the budget indicates that the 2016 budget implementation report deserves to be adopted. In quite favourable economic conditions, despite problems with the implementation of some of the assumed revenue, the expenditure savings have led to a budget deficit below the level laid down in the Budget Act. In presenting other aspects of budget implementation, I would like to say that Poland received PLN 42.9 billion from the European Union budget in 2016 and paid PLN 19.2 billion to the European Union budget. This means that the Polish economy gained net funds of PLN 23.8 billion. The expenditure of the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 51.7 billion in 2016. They accounted for 72.2% The plan. Compared to the implementation in 2015, they were lower by 23.6%. This was due to the end of the EU's financial perspective 2007 The implementation of selected strategic objectives, defined among others: in the long-term development strategy of the country. Poland 2030 and the country's development strategy 2020, which is correlated with the European programming document.Europe 2020, was satisfactory, albeit in a diverse way, in 2016. Also, monitoring of all objectives was not controlled everywhere due to the envisaged adoption of a new strategy, i.e. A strategy for responsible development by 2020 (with a view to 2030) called the Moravian Plan. In 2016 the budget law set a limit on guarantees and guarantees of PLN 200 billion, i.e. the same amount as in 2015. This limit was used in 8.3%, which should be assessed positively in view of the preventive nature of the above measures, namely to safeguard the potential use of the Treasury guarantee in order to support those at risk of the possible consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The biggest guarantees and guarantees were granted for the liabilities of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - PLN 88 billion, including the support of the National Road Fund - PLN 86.4 billion, which represented 70.6% the total amount of potential non-required liabilities of the State Treasury at the end of 2016 The amount of potential liabilities arising from the loans and issued bonds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego was fully classified into commitments with a low risk of repayment from budgetary resources. The Treasury debt at the end of 2016 amounted to PLN 928.7 billion, i.e. increased by PLN 94.1 billion in the course of the year. The main reason for the increase in this debt was the financing of the government budget deficit and the deficit of the European budget of PLN 58.8 billion. Moreover, due to exchange rate differences, the Treasury's debt increased by another PLN 14.9 billion. The share of national debt in total debt was 65.6% , and foreign debt - 34,4%. Compared to the end of 2015, these shares have changed by 0.5 percentage points in favour of domestic debt, which should be assessed positively. The net lending needs of the state budget amounted to PLN 57.1 billion last year and were PLN 26.5 billion lower than planned. The financing of loan needs was almost entirely obtained by borrowing debt on the domestic market. That was PLN 56.9 billion. The funds obtained on the foreign market were only in a small amount, PLN 200 million, intended to finance needs occurring in 2016. The Minister of Finance also used gold and currency funds from the consolidation of the funds of the public finance and monetary consolidation sector, collected in the accounts at the National Bank of Poland and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The negative aspect of budget implementation was that in 2016 there was a high level of arrears towards the state budget, PLN 96,9 billion, but it is nevertheless worth noting that this was partly the result of an increased frequency of detection of irregularities during the audit. In 2016, the average employment in the national economy amounted to 10 million 45 thousand. people and was 2.3% higher compared to the previous year. Average employment in state budget units amounted to around 501.5 thousand. people and was higher by 0.1% than in 2015. The employment rate in the 15/64 age group, calculated by the BAEL method, was the highest since the 1990s in 2016. In 2015 62.9% were employed people from this age group and in 2016 - 64.5% already. It also increased to 46.2% the employment rate of persons aged 55 and 64 years. In 2004, the value of this indicator was only 28%. The progress made since then in terms of professional activation of older people should be considered to be very significant. Economic growth in Poland was possible not only because of the increased use of human resources, but also because of the improvement of labour productivity. According to Eurostat estimates in 2016, labour productivity in Poland increased by 2% on an hourly basis compared to the previous year, while on average in the European Union this increase was 0.6%. The number of unemployed registered in employment offices at the end of 2016 was around 1.3 million, i.e. It was about 228,000 lower. than at the end of 2015. The unemployment rate at the end of 2016 was 8.3%, which means that it decreased by 1.4 percentage points compared to the previous year. 2016 was the second year in a row in which wages increased dynamically. Average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy increased by 4.2% in 2016, after the inflation effects were eliminated. , and in total in the years 2015 and 2016 - by 8,9%. It is worth noting that in 2016, as in 2014 and 2015 the salaries of employees in the business sector increased much faster than the salaries of employees in the budgetary sphere. Over the last three years, the real gross average wage in the enterprise sector has increased by 13.1% in total. , while the salaries of the staff in the budgetary sphere have increased by an average of 10.5%. The increase in wage levels in 2016 was influenced not only by the improvement in the labour market situation, but also by the increase from 1 January 2016 in the minimum wage to 1850 PLN. The average monthly pension payment from the Social Insurance Fund amounted to PLN 2004 and was higher by 1.9%. in relation to the previous year. The average pension benefit financed by the KRUS Pension Fund amounted to PLN 1183 in 2016 and was higher by 0,3% compared to the previous year. In addition to these figures, which illustrate the budgetary situation last year, I will present to the High House the work of the Committee on Public Finances on the 2016 budget implementation report. In the course of its work on the 2016 budget implementation report, the Committee on Public Finances considered the budgetary parts of its remit as well as those which were the subject of work by other committees in accordance with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. Other Sejm committees have submitted 25 opinions to the Public Finance Committee. All the opinions submitted were positive, although the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development expressed a negative opinion on the financial plan of the executive agency Polish Space Agency, indicating, inter alia, that the negative opinion on the implementation of the financial plan of the Polish Space Agency in 2016 was due to the findings of irregularities during the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Irregularities concerned expenditure of 704 000. zł, i.e. 8.6% Total expenditure. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting was also informed that, in view of the findings resulting from the inspection of NIK concerning the Polish Space Agency, the Prime Minister had dismissed the President of the Agency before the end of the term of office for which he was appointed. The Committee on National Defence, presenting its usual opinion to the Committee on Public Finance, presented the most important information on the budget implemented and the priorities adopted for spending, and made it clear that the review of the implementation of the State budget in 2016 in Part 29: The national defence showed, inter alia, that the budget expenditure was planned in a fair manner, that the effectiveness of the recovery of the budget was improved, that the total budget reports were drawn up in a timely and regular manner and that the management control system adopted ensured that they were properly audited. The Supreme Audit Chamber assessed the expenditure of the National Defence Ministry's budget in 2016, covered by a detailed examination, as intended and economic. In its opinion on Part 86, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, which drew attention to certain irregularities identified by NIK in the local review colleges in Kalisz and Łomża. In its opinion to the Committee on Public Finances, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, in a positive opinion submitted to it for consideration, indicated that in respect of the budget parts 04: Supreme Court and 52: The National Council of the Court of Justice raised doubts as to the expenditure incurred in co-financing the organisation of the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges, which could constitute a violation of the principles of public spending expressed in the Public Finance Act. The Commission also drew attention to the irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber in respect of the budget part 06: the Constitutional Tribunal, which consists of expenditure of 26 000. zł for the organisation of farewells for two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in connection with the end of their term of office, which was a violation of the principles of public spending expressed in the Public Finance Act, as these expenditures did not fall within the remit of the budgetary unit. Presenting the positive opinion of the joint committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy on Part 82: General subsidies for local government units in the field of education, the rapporteur stressed that for the first time since 2008, an indicator showing the quality of planning of the educational part of the general subsidy, which is the ratio of the current expenditure of local government units for the tasks covered by the education part of the general subsidy to the total amount of the education part of the general subsidy, decreased, which meant that in 2016 local authorities had added less of their own resources to the grants to carry out the basic educational tasks. In 2008, this rate for rural communities was 120% , over 8 years increased to 127% , and in 2016 it fell for the first time to 126.3%. The Public Finance Commission considered the report on the implementation of the State budget in 2015 at 16 meetings held from 20 June to 7 July inclusive. During her meetings, the Committee on Public Finance took note of the opinions of other committees, the opinions of the referees, the positions of the NIK, which drew attention to the shortcomings and irregularities found, and the studies of the Sejm Analysis Office. The members of the committee asked questions, there was a discussion, although there were no discussions or questions during the examination of certain parts of the budget, because the information and material submitted raised no objections. During committee meetings, additional explanations were provided by representatives of the ministries and other budget managers, and some budget managers were asked to submit detailed explanations in writing at a later date. [[But there were questions, Mr. Chairman.]] And that's what I'm talking about. During committee meetings, Members raised various issues of a specific nature and a general nature... [[That's very good.]] ...including, among other things,: the need to continue using the flexible credit line of the International Monetary Fund and the appropriateness of reducing foreign investors' involvement in the purchase of fiscal securities, as well as the development of the costs associated with the issuance of bonds on foreign markets; the financing of the FUS and KRUS pension provision system, the impact of demographic trends on the deteriorating state of the Social Insurance Fund and the impact of the reduction of the retirement age on the State budget; delays in the implementation of certain multiannual programmes and the failure to achieve assumed performance indicators; improvements in tax collection and the ability of the tax administration to use critical applications and a single control file; the costs incurred by supervised entities for the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, payments to the financial Ombudsman and the number of complaints made on the activities of various entities; expenditure by the National Defence Service, including in particular the purchase of helicopters, aircraft and cars; the resolution of outstanding subscription fees by the National Board of Radiophony and Television; the development of the programme for dental offices at universities; employment and remuneration at universities, expenditure on training of GUS staff; expenditure on the functioning of voluntary labour; the problem for preventive programmes; the development of children; The discussion at committee meetings and the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber indicated that the institutions responsible for public finances face a number of challenges that should be taken into account in their future activities. There are also several problems that the Public Finance Commission can address. In conclusion, however, it should be added that the evaluation of the Supreme Audit Chamber for the implementation of the 2016 budget was slightly better than the evaluation for the implementation of the 2015 budget, as the number of positive assessments increased from 105 a year before to 118 today. On 7 July this year, the committee voted on the negative opinion of the Committee on Economics and Development concerning the financial plan of the Polish Space Agency and on the two parliamentary proposals submitted on that day at the meeting on the negative opinion of the implementation of the budget in Part 29: National Defence and in Part 39: Transport. As a result of the votes, the committee rejected all negative opinions. In this respect, it should be recalled that the opinions of the sectoral committees and the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office on the budgetary parts concerned were positive. Also, the Supreme Audit Chamber did not assess these parts negatively. In the case of parts 29: The national defence has issued a descriptive assessment, i.e. the same as for the implementation of the budget in 2015 and for Part 39: Transport - positive assessment, i.e. better than in 2015. As a result of the votes, the committee adopted a draft resolution presented today to the High House. The draft proposes: point 1 - the adoption of a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016; point 2 - the granting of discharge to the Council of Ministers for that period; and point 3 - asking the authorising officers of the various parts of the budget to take action to remedy the irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber. The report is accompanied by two minority proposals aimed at drawing attention to irregularities in the implementation of the State budget in Part 29: National Defence and Part 39: Transport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u39	Thank you, sir. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2016 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In carrying out the obligation under Article. 204 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present to the High House an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2016 together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2016. The Supreme Audit Chamber, following a review of the implementation of the State budget and an analysis of its findings, assessed positively the implementation of the 2016 budget law. The Supreme Audit Chamber also concluded that the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 drawn up by the Council of Ministers provides, in all material respects, reliable information and data on the amount of revenue, expenditure, debts and liabilities and the result of the State budget and the budget of European funds. The data shown in this report are reliable in the assessment of the NIK, as they result from the reports of the individual State budget managers. These evaluations were drawn up on the basis of the results of 327 audits in 307 budgetary units. In total, the implementation of the budget by the managers of 111 parts of the state budget and the financial plans of 33 out-of-budget economy units were audited. The use of grants from 104 selected beneficiaries has also been checked. The detailed results of the audit are presented in separate information provided to the Marshal and to the Sejm committees. This information was dominated by positive assessments. In one case, the Polish Space Agency, the Supreme Audit Chamber has assessed the implementation of the financial plan negatively. When the criteria for issuing a positive assessment were not met and the scale of the irregularity did not justify a negative assessment, we used descriptive assessments. They represented around 20% of total assessments. The Supreme Audit Chamber has given a positive opinion on the correctness of the accounts for all the 20 budgetary parts audited in this respect. A positive opinion was also given to 95% the annual budgetary reports examined in 104 budgetary parts and 189 third-degree directors. The findings of the audit of irregularities in the accounts and in the budgetary reporting were The Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 has been revised or has not had a significant impact on the reliability of the data presented in the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. High Seym! The state budget and the budget of European funds, as well as the financial plans of non-budget units in the public finance sector, have been implemented in accordance with the budgetary law, although they have been implemented under less favourable macroeconomic conditions than a year before, less favourable than projected. The growth rate of gross domestic product in the world economy was 3% versus 3.2% in 2015. Gross domestic product in 2016 in the European Union increased by 1,9% , while the year before this increase was 0.3 percentage points higher. Gross domestic product in Poland in 2016 increased by 2,7% in real terms. This increase was 1.1 percentage points lower than a year ago. The main driver of economic development was domestic demand. Private consumption has helped to improve income at the disposal of households as a result of good labour market conditions and the implementation of the 500+ family programme. The decrease in gross domestic demand was due to a decrease in investment. Investment expenditure in 2016 decreased by almost 8% in relation to expenditure in the previous year. The reduction in the scale of investments concerned almost all Eastern European countries belonging to the European Union. This was due to a decrease in the dynamics of the implementation of investment projects co-financed by the European Union budget at the turn of the financial perspectives for the period 2007 to 2013 and 2014 to 2020. In 2016, for example, investments in Hungary decreased by 15%. , in Slovakia - by 9 and in the Czech Republic - by 3.7%. The unemployment rate recorded in Poland has reached the lowest level since 1991. At the end of 2016, it was 8.3% and was lower than that recorded in 2015 by 1,4 percentage points. The number of unemployed registered at the end of 2016 was 228 000. lower than a year ago. The ratio of the number of long-term unemployed to the total of active workers decreased by half between 2013 and 2016, from 4.4% up to 2.2%. Export dynamics. Export dynamics were higher than import dynamics. This resulted in an improvement in the balance of trade. In 2016, the negative current account-to-GDP ratio was -0.3%. and decreased from 2015. However, the forecasts of some macroeconomic parameters were not accurate. The growth rate of gross domestic product was 1.1 percentage points below the forecast rate. The increase in investments was lower than assumed by 14.9 percentage points. The recorded unemployment rate was lower than the forecast by 1.4 percentage points and deflation occurred instead of expected inflation. The average annual rate of gold against the euro was higher than the forecasted rate by 10%. And the US dollar is 5.4%. Among the most important economic factors that affected the failure of the forecasts were uncertainty in international financial markets, low commodity prices and a decrease in investment demand in the country. On the other hand, consumption dynamics were similar to the forecast. Private consumption increased by 3.8% in real terms against the projected growth of 3,7%. This was the highest growth since 2008. The high growth in household consumption has significantly affected economic growth in Poland despite significantly smaller investments. High Seym! The total revenue of the State budget and of the budget of European funds amounted in 2016. 353 700 million PLN and slightly exceeded the level of revenue realised in 2015. The revenue of the state budget increased by 25 500 million PLN compared to the previous year and was slightly higher than the forecast. The share of tax revenue in the revenue of the State budget was 86.8% And it was 2 percentage points less than a year ago. In 2016, the forecast of tax revenues was made in 99%. The tax revenue compared to tax revenue in 2015 was higher by PLN 13 500 million. The implementation of tax revenues would have been higher if it had not been for the high tax returns on goods and services made in the last month of 2016, the statutory deadline for implementation of which was largely due in January or February 2017. The tax offices returned to the companies the amount of PLN 13 300 million, i.e. PLN 4900 million higher than in December 2015. The forecast of revenues from new taxes was overstated. The payment of the tax on certain financial institutions was made at a lower level than the Budget Act provided for - by 36%. No forecasts of revenue from large-scale shops tax have been made. In July 2016, the Retail Tax Act was passed, but after the decision of the European Commission ordering Poland to suspend its application until it was clarified whether the Polish tax was compatible with EU law, the tax collection was suspended. In 2016, a number of measures were taken to reduce the grey economy and to seal the tax system. The amount of tax revenue realised in 2016 indicates a slowing down of the negative trends in tax collection, mainly in the tax on goods and services. However, at this stage it is still too early to determine the final effects of sealing activities. It should be noted that macroeconomic conditions, particularly a significant increase in private consumption, also had a significant impact on the growth of tax revenues in 2016. Non-tax revenues in relation to 2015 were higher by PLN 12 400 million. For the first time they exceeded the amount of PLN 40 billion. In 2016, high one-off revenues were planned and realised as a result of the so-called "one-off'. digital dividend in the amount of PLN 9200 million. After 2 years of interruption a deposit of nearly PLN 8 billion was made from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. This deposit was higher than planned by PLN 4700 million. Such a large contribution was previously made in 2012. High Seym! In 2016, the rate of tax arrears growth decreased by 13.3 percentage points compared to 2015, but remained significant and stood at 30.2%. The tax and other budgetary arrears at the end of 2016 amounted to PLN 96 900 million and increased by 26% compared to the end of 2015. The proportion of tax arrears in total was 79% and increased by more than 2 percentage points compared to the previous year. The report on tax arrears at the end of the year was 28.1% compared to the tax revenues realised in 2016. , while in 2015 it was lower by 5.4 percentage points. The arrears in the tax on goods and services were almost three times higher than in 2013. The amounts to be applied as a result of the detection of material irregularities by the tax authorities and tax authorities have had a decisive impact on the extent of the duties. Enforcement has proved ineffective. They were led, among others. to tax fraud entities using invoices documenting fictitious activities. The tax authorities have detected irregularities amounting to PLN 22 billion, i.e. by almost 20% higher than a year ago. The tax authorities detected irregularities amounting to PLN 8300 million, which represented an increase of 41.4% compared to the previous year. The situation of non-tax revenue arrears was worrying at the end of 2016. Since the end of 2013, these arrears have increased by PLN 7300 million to PLN 20 100 million. A significant rate of increase in arrears was the result of the existence of a chronic recovery procedure or the cessation of recovery. In the view of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not all budgetary units attached due importance to the recovery of non-tax claims by the Treasury. The revenue of the European budget in 2016 amounted to PLN 39 100 million and was lower than the revenue generated in 2015 by almost 40%. Their structure was dominated by revenues from the implementation of the tasks of the common agricultural policy and the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. High Seym! The expenditure of the State budget and the budget of European funds has been incurred within the limits in force. The expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds was in 2016. 412 500 million PLN and were 3.3% higher than the year before. State budget expenditure amounted to PLN 360 800 million. For the first time in 8 years, a list of non-extinguishable expenditure of PLN 750 million has been established. It included in particular expenditure on the purchase of medium-sized aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country, the construction and implementation of data centres, the purchase of IT equipment and software for the national defence department and the purchase of protective vaccines. The second year in a row saw an increase in the total expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds. Earlier, the sum of these was steadily decreasing. In 2016, expenditure increased in all generic groups, with the exception of property expenditure. Property expenditure was almost 30% lower. More than half of the expenditure in 2016 was allocated to grants and subsidies, which together with current budget units and property expenditure accounted for more than 80% expenditure of the State budget and of the budget of European funds. The largest appropriations were allocated to the tasks financed in the budget classification section: Compulsory social security, mainly for grants to the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund and the provision of cash from pension supplies. The second largest expenditure was in the heading: Various accounts, i.e. the payment of general subsidies, the payment of appropriations to the budget of the European Union and the financing of regional operational programmes. Their final destination is only visible in the statement of expenditure of the public finance sector. The third place included expenditure in the section: Social assistance allocated in the vast majority to targeted grants to carry out current tasks in the field of government administration and other tasks commissioned to municipalities. The increase in expenditure in this section was mainly due to the implementation of the 500+ family programme from 1 April 2016. European spending amounted to PLN 51 700 million and was 24% lower than the 2015 implementation. Expenditure on the tasks of the common agricultural policy accounted for almost 48% expenditure of the budget of European funds, which accounted for a total of PLN 24 700 million. A total of PLN 13 800 million was spent on the implementation of the programmes under the 2014-2020 financial perspective in 2016, and thus by almost 12 billion more than in 2015, while 13 200 million PLN was allocated to the previous financial perspective in 2007 and 2013. As part of the financial perspective 2014, the amount of eligible expenditure shown in the declarations and declarations of expenditure submitted to the European Commission by the end of 2016 and payment applications amounted to PLN 15,700 million, representing 5,1% allocation for the years 2014 to 2020 Low use was due to delays in the implementation of the programmes. Work continued in 2016 on preparing the self-assessment of the conditions for the effective implementation of operational programmes. As of 27 March 2017, three of the 29 preconditions for the implementation of the Partnership Agreement were not met. In the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013, the amount of European Union funding from the start of the perspective until the end of 2016 amounted to almost PLN 278 billion. It was 103.4% appropriations allocated to Poland. The European Commission reimbursed 85.8% by the end of 2016 These measures. This amount together with the EUR 6200 million advance provided by the European Commission amounted to 95% appropriations allocated in the previous budget allocation of the European Union. Poland received funding from the European Union budget of EUR 132 600 million from its accession to the European Union until 31 December 2016. During this period, 43 800 million euro were transferred to the European Union budget for membership contributions and 152 400 000 were reimbursed. Euros. The balance of financial accounts between Poland and the European Union at the end of 2016 was positive and amounted to EUR 88 600 million. In 2016, the Council Poland raised EUR 10 billion from the European Union budget and paid a membership fee of EUR 4.5 billion. The balance of current accounts was positive and amounted to EUR 5500 million last year. Expenditure on financing the Polish contribution to the European Union budget increased slightly - from PLN 18 200 million in 2015 to PLN 19 200 million in 2016. The biggest support from the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund, has been allocated to improving transport infrastructure, investment in human capital, R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship and environmental protection. Most of the expenditure of the State budget and of the budget of European funds audited by the Supreme Chamber of Unit Control was carried out intentionally, economically, on the basis of contracts concluded with economic operators selected in procedures carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. The grants were also granted in most cases in accordance with the rules in force. The funds transferred in the form of grants were spent in accordance with the intended purpose indicated in the contracts concluded. However, the findings of the audit indicate that there is a need to increase the supervision of managers of the use of grants, in particular voivodships, of the performance by local authorities of tasks financed or co-financed by a targeted grant from the State budget, and the reliability of the determination of the resources necessary for the implementation of these tasks. The challenge for Poland is to improve innovation, increase investment and correct diversification of the wealth of subregions. In terms of innovation, Poland occupies a distant 39th place in the world and 27. in Europe behind Slovakia and Bulgaria and before Greece. We allocated 1% for R &amp; D in Poland in 2015 gross domestic product, while in other countries of the European Union this rate was on average twice as high. The investment rate in 2016 fell to 18.5%. It's been the lowest in 12 years. The GDP per capita in Poland compared to the EU average improved from less than 50% in 2004 to almost 70% in 2015 Between 2012 and 2014 compared to 2004 and 2006 in the least-developed group of voivodships, the GDP per capita ratio increased from 68% to 70% compared to the national average for Lublin voivodship. , and for the Podkarpackie Voivodship - from 69% to 71%. High Seym! In 2016, the government budget deficit amounted to PLN 64 200 million and the European budget amounted to PLN 12 600 million. Both deficits were below the ceiling laid down in the Budget Act by 15,7% And 30.6%. However, their total volume reached a record amount of PLN 58 800 million. This result was 13 billion PLN higher than in the previous year. The magnitude of the budgetary imbalances thus measured reached 3.2% GDP. This relationship was 0.6 percentage points higher than in 2015. Over the last 10 years, the higher ratio of both deficits to GDP was only in 2010 and was 3.9%. In 2016, as in previous years, the Minister of Finance used legal solutions to demonstrate a lower government budget deficit than the economic nature of the operations carried out. However, their scale has been significantly reduced, among others. by reducing transfers to open pension funds. In 2016, operations distorting the transparency of public finances amounted to PLN 4200 million, while in 2013 and 2015 they amounted to PLN 16 600 million on average. These operations consisted in the financing of the Social Insurance Fund from funds included in the expenditure of the State budget rather than in expenditure. Laws allowed this to happen, although this contradicted the economic nature of the operation. This was done in two ways. Firstly, the Social Insurance Fund received a loan from the state budget of PLN billion. The loan as a return transfer was included in the proceeds rather than in the expenses. However, none of the loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund in recent years have been repaid and most of them were decommitted at the beginning of 2017. Therefore, the initial transfers shown as returnable were de facto non-refundable, similar to grants and therefore the assessment of the NIK should be included in the expenditure. Secondly, the Social Insurance Fund has for years received a refund for the loss of contributions to open pension funds. In 2016, this amount amounted to PLN 3200 million. These transfers were accounted for as they were to be financed from privatisation revenues. However, in 2016, such revenues were virtually non-existent and these transfers were financed by the issuance of treasury securities. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, non-refundable transfers financed from sources other than privatisation revenues should be reported as expenditure. If these transfers were included in expenditure, the government budget deficit would be PLN 4200 million higher than that shown in the Council of Ministers' report and the government deficit-to-GDP ratio would increase from 2.5% Up to 2.7%. The Supreme Audit Chamber also notes that the deficit of the budget of European funds was not due to the lack of resources provided by the European Commission, but to the decision of the Minister of Finance to use the funds transferred from refunds and advances. Part of the appropriations not allocated to the revenue of the European budget was used in accordance with the internal procedure of the Ministry of Finance to manage the liquidity of the State budget. In 2016, the Minister of Finance, following the requests of the Supreme Audit Chamber, adopted rules limiting the freedom to shape revenue and the financial result of the European budget for the 2014-2020 perspective. However, these rules did not lead to the Minister of Finance's full compliance with the principle of spot budgeting. High Seym! The net lending needs of the State amounted to PLN 57 100 million and were lower than planned by PLN 26 600 million. However, compared to 2015, it increased by 3300 million, i.e. over 6%. The main contribution to the development of loan needs was the deficits of the state budget and the budget of European funds and the aforementioned funds for the financing of the Social Insurance Fund. The financing of loan needs was almost entirely obtained by borrowing debt on the domestic market. The cost of obtaining the funds increased slightly compared to the costs incurred in 2015, i.a. the result of a temporary decrease in the rating of Poland, the outflow of foreign investors from the domestic debt market. The profitability increased despite the fact that the financing of loan needs in 2016 was carried out under the conditions of historically highest free resources collected on gold and foreign exchange deposits. Their daily average level in 2016 amounted to PLN 49 300 million and was above the level maintained in 2015 by PLN 1800 million. Free funds were obtained by issuing debt, which, after deduction of the income generated from their placement, cost the taxpayer more than PLN 220 million. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, the carrying out of emissions resulting in a significant and long-term increase in the position of investments should be preceded each time by analyses of the accuracy and effectiveness of the acquisition of funds, based on the data as close as possible to the current market situation. The Supreme Audit Chamber, during its audit in the Ministry of Finance, made comments on the analysis to date in this area. The privatisation revenues were made in 2016 amounting to 68 100 thousand. zł. That was 31%. the amount planned for 2016 The lower performance of revenue in 2016 compared to plans and in relation to previous years was the result of the verification of companies intended for privatisation due to a change in the concept of asset management of the Treasury. The total revenue generated has been transferred to certain funds financed from these revenues. There was no revenue to provide full funding for the guarantee and guarantee reserve fund. The State Treasury Minister did not transfer to this account the amount of PLN 99 million due for the years 2015 to 2016, thus failing to comply with the provisions of the Article. 25a Law on Guarantees and Guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. High Seym! The 2016 Budget Act includes financial plans for 29 State special-purpose funds, 38 state-owned legal persons, 10 executive agencies and budgetary institutions. In 2016, for the first time since 2013, state-owned special-purpose funds have reached an excess of revenue over costs. It amounted to PLN 2,300 million. Compared to the previous year, the shortage of Social Insurance Fund decreased slightly by 1.3%. The State budget subsidies accounted for around 26% Total revenues of these units and were 2,4% higher than in 2015. 91% grants were transferred to targeted funds, of which almost 64% - to the Social Security Fund. 2016 was the third year in which the state legal entities achieved a positive financial result. The positive aspect was that it amounted to almost PLN 1 billion, i.e. by more than PLN 110 million more than in 2015 under the conditions of repayment of the fall in funding from budgetary grants. The State budget grants to 33 state-owned legal persons accounted for around 3% realised revenues of all state-owned legal entities. For the first time in 4 years, executive agencies suffered a net loss of over PLN 0.5 billion. This result was lower than that recorded in 2015 by nearly PLN 1500 million. The net loss of the Agricultural Property Stock of the State Treasury was affected by this change, the revenue of the stock decreased by more than 58%. This was the result of the implementation of the law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. Moreover, more payments to the State budget were planned for the mandatory burden arising from the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estates of the State Treasury. In this situation, the Supreme Audit Chamber has not found grounds for reducing the assessment of the implementation of the financial plan of the resource. Between 2013 and 2016, the institutions of the budgetary economy suffered losses. However, it should be noted that they were gradually reduced from 16 million in 2013 to 9 million last year. The financial plans of the audited out-of-budget economy units were carried out correctly in most cases and the irregularities identified did not have a major impact on the management of public funds. The exception is the financial plan of the Polish Space Agency, which the Supreme Audit Chamber has assessed negatively. The negative assessment was based primarily on irregularities involving 8.6% expenditure incurred by the Agency. There have been irregularities concerning the award of public contracts, management control and implementation of the budget in the Task Force. Part of the tasks set out in the Act on the Polish Space Agency were carried out to a limited extent and the keeping of a single register of space objects was not carried out at all. Three special-purpose funds, which were disproportionately high in relation to the annual costs of carrying out their tasks, also need to be noted at the end of 2016. The cash situation of the Reprivatisation Fund was 23 times higher than the costs incurred by the Fund in 2016. In the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Gambling Problems Fund, the level of funding was 14 times higher than the annual financial needs. In the view of the Supreme Audit Chamber, funds should primarily finance the tasks set out in the laws creating the individual special funds, while noting the specific objective of the Reprivatisation Fund, which may justify the high level of the funds of the Fund. The keeping on the accounts of the other two high-level funds over the long term does not contribute to the effective achievement of the objectives set out in the laws. This adverse phenomenon has already been highlighted by the Supreme Audit Chamber in previous years. The High Sejm, the state public debt calculated according to the national methodology at the end of 2016 amounted to more than PLN 965 billion. It increased by nearly PLN 88 billion compared to the end of 2015. This was the largest nominal debt increase since at least 2003. It was mainly due to the financing of the state budget and the budget of European funds and the depreciation of gold. At the end of 2016, the government's debt-to-GDP ratio was 52.1%. Compared to the previous year, it increased by 3,4 percentage points. The largest share of public debt was the Treasury debt. His debt was 92.6% Total debt. Nearly 2/3 of the Treasury's debt was incurred on the domestic market. Although the share of foreign debt decreased slightly, due to the cost of its handling Poland transferred the amount of PLN 10 billion a year abroad. General government debt determined according to the Union methodology exceeded PLN 1 trillion at the end of 2016. It was higher than at the end of the previous year by nearly PLN 87 billion. Debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 51.1% in 2015 to 54.4% in 2016 Poland was for the first time outside the first ten countries of the European Union with the lowest level of debt in relation to GDP. However, this relationship for Poland was still lower than the value of 83.5% for the European Union as a whole. , and significantly lower than the euro area average of 89.2%. The difference between the state public debt calculated according to the national methodology and the government debt calculated according to the principles established by the EU institutions exceeded 41 billion PLN. It was mainly due to the non-recognition in the sovereign public debt of the National Road Fund. In the past, the Supreme Audit Chamber has called for the harmonisation of the methodology for calculating public debt to include full liabilities of public entities. In this way, the possibility of an uncontrolled increase in sovereign debt would be excluded. High Seym! The statement of revenue and expenditure of the public finance sector is a mandatory part of the government's report on the implementation of the State budget. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, the revenue and deficit of the public finance sector, as in previous years, have been calculated correctly. The proceeds of the Social Insurance Fund received from the State budget for the contribution refund for open pension funds have not been eliminated from revenue. As a result, the revenues and performance of the public finance sector were overestimated by PLN 3200 million. The correctly calculated deficit in the public finance sector was PLN 49 300 million in the assessment of NIK and was 2.7% in relation to GDP. The Minister of Finance in our assessment has miscalculated the size of this deficit and the volume of public revenue since 2004. In total, the deficit of the public finance sector was reduced by PLN 158 600 million in 2004/2016, i.e. an average of PLN 12 200 million per year compared to the data presented in the reports. This means that this difference was much lower in 2016. In 2016, the tax-to-GDP ratio of the public finance sector was 8.7% and was 0.5 percentage points higher than in 2015. However, this relationship was still much lower than the average in the European Union, accounting for almost 27% GDP. While the scale of tax revenues related to production and import in relation to the size of the economy was similar in Poland to the EU average, the scale of income and property tax revenues was almost half as small. The ratio of income from capital taxes to GDP was also much smaller. This means that in this respect Poland created better conditions for capital investment than most European Union countries. Half of the expenditure of the public finance sector was carried out in three sections: Mandatory social security, health care and education, the first of which was absorbed by almost 1/3 of public funds. Compared with the figures for 2015 and 2016, one can first of all see a very large increase in expenditure in the section: Social assistance, linked to the introduction of the educational benefit from the program The financial situation of local government units was improved. They achieved a record budget surplus of PLN 7600 million. This was mainly due to a 1/3 reduction in property expenditure compared to 2015 levels. This surplus allowed local governments both to reduce their debt levels and to raise funds for future investments. The general government deficit, calculated according to the Union methodology, amounted to 2,4% in 2016 in relation to GDP. GDP. This indicator was 0.2 percentage points lower than a year ago. However, it continued to develop by 0.7 percentage points above the average for all EU countries. The Polish Government has committed itself to reducing it in the following years. In Poland, the general government deficit has not so far been a threat to the financial stability of the State, although the average deficit in 1995 and 2016 was significant and amounted to 4.2%. GDP. Despite this financial imbalance, there was no excess of an acceptable threshold of 60% of public debt. GDP. High Seym! The scale and gravity of the irregularities found in the implementation control of the State budget in 2016 was not significant. In particular, the main irregularities identified as a result of the checks on certain contributors involved: failure to comply with procedures and rules in the award of public contracts, errors in the award of grants and in the supervision of their use, the non-target spending of funds, the conclusion of civil law contracts with individuals of the nature of employment contracts, the delay in the implementation of multiannual programmes which were not intended to be used for the use of appropriations from special provisions, the absence of budgetary duties, the setting of measures to prevent the measurement of the results of the tasks carried out, the insufficient supervision of responsibilities over subordinate units and ineffective management control mechanisms. Following a review of the implementation of the State budget in 2016 The Supreme Audit Chamber has addressed more than 350 proposals to control bodies whose implementation will enable better, more efficient implementation of budgets in the coming years. The Supreme Audit Chamber recognises the need to strengthen the oversight of the budgetary components of the implementation of the financial plans. In this respect, the proposals concerned, in particular, the recovery of claims, the use of grants and the continuation of measures to improve the forecasting of revenues. It is necessary to improve the reliability of the verification of the needs reported by the beneficiaries in the event of the mobilisation of funds from the special reserve. The Supreme Audit Chamber also points to delays in the use of funds from the financial perspective of the European Union for the period 2014-2020. It is reasonable to implement effective management mechanisms that allow for a long-term assessment of the achievement of the objectives and the response to emerging risks. The Supreme Audit Chamber also recognises the need to improve solutions for a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of expenditure incurred. It is also reasonable for the Council of Ministers to carry out a detailed analysis of the level of performance of the tasks included in the workflow of expenditure and the reasons for the failure to fulfil part of the tasks and, on the basis of the results of this analysis, to take measures to improve the functioning of public bodies. In the light of the results of the audit, it is important to continue systemic action on: the implementation of further measures to reduce the most serious risks to the collection of budgetary revenue, and the reform of the budgetary system, among others. to strengthen the role of multiannual planning and to increase transparency and transparency in public spending. High Seym! In fulfilling the constitutional obligation, the Supreme Audit Chamber also carried out an audit of the activities of the National Bank of Poland in the implementation of monetary policy objectives. In 2016, for the fourth year in a row, inflation was significantly below the basic monetary policy objective set in the monetary policy assumptions for 2016 at 2,5%. with an acceptable symmetrical deviation interval of 1 percentage point. From January to October, annual deflation was maintained from 1.1% up to 0,2% In November, the annual increase in consumer prices was 0% , and in December, after more than 2 years of deflation, inflation returned at 0.8% per year. Despite these deviations, the Supreme Audit Chamber considered the assumptions to be fulfilled. The Monetary Policy Council has set the inflation target in a flexible way, allowing for a temporary development of the price index of goods and services outside the range of deviations from the target. At the same time, the Council established a flexible path for the return of inflation to a fixed corridor, depending on the reason for the deviations. The decline in prices of energy raw materials in the world, including oil and natural gas prices, i.e. factors outside the sphere of monetary policy, has been determined by the fact that deflation occurred in Poland. In addition, it should be noted that the deflation did not translate negatively into consumer expectations and decisions and that there were no significant economic disturbances associated with this. The Monetary Policy Council as an appropriate period for assessing the effectiveness of monetary policy has identified a 10-year horizon. If you understand the monetary policy objective, it was certain that it would be achieved at the time of establishing the monetary policy objectives for 2016. The average annual inflation would have to be above 14% or a deflation of less than 6% so that the assumptions are not met. Such a scenario was not assumed by the most extreme predictions. The National Bank of Poland has achieved the operational objectives of monetary policy for 2016. The Management Board of the National Bank of Poland assumed to stabilise the liquidity of the banking sector, making effective use of open market operations, deposit and credit operations and the minimum reserve system. The short-term interest rate on the in-bank market was maintained near the reference rate of the National Bank of Poland. The Supreme Audit Chamber did not find irregularities in the application of monetary policy instruments by the National Bank of Poland, nor did it comment on the implementation of exchange rate policy. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Summary. At its meeting on 9 June 2017, the College of the Supreme Audit Board adopted a resolution expressing a positive assessment of the 2016 discharge for the Council of Ministers. At the same time, the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out: the need to continue to act effectively to seal the tax system, remaining despite a slight improvement in 2016 in the difficult financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund and the need to improve and consistently implement instruments supporting the efficiency of public spending. Thanking you very much for your attention, I would like to stress that I have with me all the directors of the Office of the Supreme Audit Chamber, who have carried out checks with all the budgetary directors. Of course, in the course of the discussion, we will be at your disposal to answer any question you have asked about your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 43 hours 11 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to report to the committee on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2016 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Public Finance on 24 May 2017 - Information on guarantees and guarantees given in 2016 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. During its work, the committee took note of the report presented. In this report the granting of nine guarantees of the State Treasury for a total amount of over PLN 16 billion, including for projects such as the express road S17 Warszawa - Lublin, the modernization of roads in Poland, the express road S5 Nowe Marzy - Bydgoszcz - Wrocław, the bypass of Warsaw - the third stage, the Warsaw railway junction, the modernization of the railway line E20 Sochaczew - Swarządz. Of which there were three guarantees for the performance of commitments, all related to the National Road Fund. The potential non-required liabilities of the State Treasury for the guarantees granted and guarantees amounted to PLN 124 513 682 620 as at 31 December 2016. In 2016, the Treasury did not spend funds on the payment of guaranteed and guaranteed liabilities. As of 31 December 2016, the ratio of potential commitments for guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury compared to GDP for 2016 was 6.7%. There was a slight increase in this ratio as at 31 December 2015, which was 6.3% at that time. In 2016, a slight decrease in the average risk of the portfolio of guarantees and guarantees granted to the Treasury was observed in relation to 2015, namely from 7% to 6,5%. Claims on guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury as at 31 December 2016 amounted to PLN 213 208 887, which means that in relation to 2015 this item recorded a decrease of as much as 30.2%. As at 31 December 2015, these claims amounted to PLN 305 675 538. As a result of the recovery measures undertaken in 2016 and in previous years, which resulted in the reimbursement to the budget of amounts receivable by the State Treasury, revenue of PLN 83 303 was generated in 2016 which represents a decrease of 98.5%. against income of PLN 5 595 290. There were no disturbing signals about the guarantees given. Following a brief discussion, the committee, after considering this information at its meeting on 21 June 2017, therefore requests the High Sejm to accept the information from print No 1566. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u43	Thank you, sir. I ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fulfilling my statutory obligation, I submit to the High House a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016. According to the NBP Act, this document was submitted to the hands of the Marshal on 30 May 2017. In my speech before the High House, I would like to discuss the most important activities of the NBP last year. By virtue of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the exclusive right to determine and implement monetary policy. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the National Bank of Poland is responsible for the value of Polish money. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 The NBP Act clarifies the powers set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, stating that the primary purpose of NBP's activities is to maintain a stable level of prices while supporting the economic policy of the government, unless this limits the basic objective of the NBP. The NBP seeks to maintain price stability by implementing the inflation target strategy. This strategy is applied by leading central banks around the world, and it is essential to anchor long-term inflation expectations at the level of the announced inflation target and to adapt monetary policy instruments, mainly interest rates, to the economic outlook and expected price dynamics. Since 2004 NBP pursues its medium-term inflation target of 2,5% with symmetrical variation range of width plus minus 1 percentage point. During this period, the average consumer price dynamics in Poland amounted to 2%, indicating the effectiveness of this strategy in ensuring long-term price stability. The analysis of the causes of the global economic crisis has led to a partial modification of views on the proper way to conduct monetary policy. At present, it is recognised that stabilising inflation at low levels is a very important but insufficient condition for sustainability in the economy. In order to ensure macroeconomic stability, monetary policy needs to be pursued in such a way as to stabilise inflation at medium-term level, while at the same time reducing the risk of the growth of imbalances in the economy, in particular in the financial system. However, this monetary policy requires a flexible approach to the inflation target. A flexible approach to the inflation target is necessary especially when there are shocks in the global economy that strongly affect national price processes. In 2016, such shocks were first the decline in world oil prices and then their increase. As a result of these shocks, price dynamics in the world first decreased to very low - and in some countries even to negative - levels and then increased. At the same time, global GDP has been the lowest in 2016 since the last global financial crisis and, in the case of developing countries, the weakest in 20 years, reducing global demand pressure. In the immediate vicinity of the Polish economy, i.e. in the euro area, however, there was a moderate recovery supported by the European Central Bank's expansive policy. In the United States, the economic situation improved so much at the end of the year that the Federal Reserve raised interest rates. The strengthening of monetary policy in the United States has contributed to an increase in the profitability of government bonds in the world, as well as the outflow of capital from emerging economies and the weakening of their currencies, including gold. In Poland the economic situation was beneficial. Real GDP growth was 2.7% and despite some reduction compared to 2015, it remained close to the dynamics of the potential product. The main growth factor was the growing demand for consumption, which fostered the acceleration of household income growth related to the ongoing recovery in the labour market, as well as the increase in educational benefits. Restoration in the labour market has contributed to a systematic increase in employment and a fall in the unemployment rate which has fallen to the lowest level since 1991 and reached only 8.3% in December. We are currently seeing a continuation of the decline in the unemployment rate, which is currently estimated at 7.2%. In addition, the increase in credit in 2016 and in the first months of 2017 was stable, accompanied by a recovery in the real estate market. The main contribution to the decline in GDP growth in 2016 was the decline in investments linked to the completion of the European Union's financial perspective 2007 The favourable economic situation of Poland's main trading partners and improving the competitiveness of Polish products were conducive to the acceleration of Polish exports, which contributed to the increase of the surplus in foreign trade. As a result, the current account deficit has fallen to the lowest level since 1995 and the total current and capital account balance has remained positive. Stable economic growth was accompanied by low but rising price dynamics. In December 2016, it amounted to 0.8% year to year compared to minus 0.9% year-to-year in January 2016 The negative price dynamics that persisted for most of the year were mainly due to the strong decline in world prices of energy raw materials at the turn of 2015 and 2016. Lower prices of energy raw materials have had a positive impact on the economic situation of both households and most economic operators, and consequently the deflation did not have a negative impact on the economic situation in Poland. The continuing negative price dynamics did not result in households putting aside consumer expenditure and the companies indicated that it had no significant impact on their sales, financial condition and employment. In view of these circumstances, the Monetary Policy Council maintained the NBP interest rates unchanged in 2016, including a reference rate of 1,5%. In its interest rate decisions, the Council used the flexibility of the inflation target strategy, which means that it took into account, on the one hand, the external and transitional nature of the factors limiting price dynamics and, on the other hand, the sustainable pace of economic growth, systematic improvement in the labour market and a steadily growing credit share. Maintaining unchanged interest rates has encouraged price stability while maintaining macroeconomic equilibrium and stability in the financial sector. At the same time, the NBP's historically low level of interest rates supported the economic downturn, which last year was weakened by a reduction in investment due to the temporary reduction in EU funds. This year, the price dynamics have moved closer to the NBP target and economic growth has accelerated after a temporary weakening in 2016. At the same time, employment growth continues and lending continues to grow at a stable rate. In addition, favourable trends in the balance of payments persist. Thus, NBP is effectively carrying out its constitutional and statutory tasks, maintaining price stability and supporting macroeconomic balance in the Polish economy. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The NBP's monetary policy in 2016 was implemented through a set of instruments adopted by the Monetary Policy Council. The conditions on domestic and foreign financial markets did not require the use of custom tools by the National Bank of Poland. The main monetary policy instrument in 2016 was the NBP interest rates. The NBP reference rate was the most important one. This rate, determining the profitability of the open market operations used by the central bank to control the level of liquidity in the banking sector, affected the level of interest rate on the funds made available in the inter-bank market. The NBP's deposit and pawn shops set a range of overnight interest rates fluctuations on the indicated market. The implementation of monetary policy in 2016 was carried out by the National Bank of Poland, as in previous years, under conditions of persistent overliquidity in the banking sector. Its level was reduced in 2016 with the greatest contribution being made by the increase in cash in circulation. The average level of liquidity in 2016 was about PLN 73 billion compared to about PLN 90 billion a year earlier. In 2016, the operational objective of monetary policy was to develop the Polonia rate near the NBP reference rate. This objective has been achieved effectively. The average absolute deviation from the NBP reference rate was 16 basis points. The operational objective of monetary policy was to implement open market operations in the form of money vouchers. With their use, the National Bank of Poland absorbed excess funds held by banks in order to maintain balanced liquidity conditions in the banking sector. The minimum reserve system was instrumental in achieving the operational objective in 2016. It allowed reserve holders in the NBP to use the funds collected in central bank accounts during the reserve period. In 2016, the NBP's deposit and credit operations had a similar role in achieving the operational objective of monetary policy. With their use, the central bank offered banks the opportunity to locate surplus funds or to supplement current liquidity shortfalls for one-day periods with a deposit at the end of the day and a pawn shop loan respectively. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Effective measures for financial stability require knowledge of the current situation of the financial sector and the identification and assessment of the risks at stake. The National Bank of Poland carries out this task by conducting cyclical research and analysis of this sector, as well as cooperating with other state bodies in the creation of legal regulations and taking actions that promote financial stability. The analyses carried out by NBP confirm that the Polish financial system was stable in 2016. The most important segment - the banking sector - was in good shape. The sector as a whole provided loans at a pace similar to nominal GDP growth, which, by supporting economic growth, did not generate imbalances threatening financial stability. The banking sector was characterised by capital equipment appropriate to the level of its activities. The total capital ratio at the end of 2016 was 17,2% against the minimum level of so-called. Pillar I, of 8%. The banks also complied with the additional capital requirements above the pillar and the buffers imposed by the Financial Supervision Authority. In 2016, the profit of the banking sector amounted to PLN 13.9 billion, i.e. by 8.4%. more than in 2015 The increase in profit was largely due to the one-off sale of shares in the Visa Europe payment card organisation. It has allowed it to neutralise the impact on banks' balance sheets of the tax on certain financial institutions since February 2016. In total, banks paid about PLN 3.2 billion of this tax. However, banks face a number of serious challenges in terms of the gradual entry into force of European regulations, which will affect both the profitability of banks and the ability to lend to real-world players at the current pace. The challenge considered in the public debate has also been to accelerate the restructuring of housing portfolios nominated in foreign currency for a long time. In the assessment of the National Bank of Poland, priority should be given to maintaining the stability of the financial system when taking any institutional action on foreign exchange loans. The National Bank of Poland is in favour of restructuring on the basis of voluntary agreements between banks and borrowers. Allow me to return to this topic at the next part of the speech. The cooperative banks are an important element of the national banking sector. The sector continued in 2016 with major changes in organisational structures in 2015 aimed at strengthening the security and stability of the cooperative sector. This purpose is served, among others. the functioning of institutional protection systems, so-called IPS. Currently there are two such systems in which 87% already exist. cooperative banks. However, 74 cooperative banks remained outside the IPS structures at the end of the first quarter of 2017. I would like to stress that the National Bank of Poland has from the beginning supported the creation of institutional protection systems and pointed out the need to participate in them as many banks as possible. The functioning of the IPS, including in particular the liquidity and capital support funds set up in their structures, shall enhance the security of all participants. They thus contribute to improving the stability of the cooperative banking sector and the national banking system as a whole. Moreover, the functioning of cooperative banks within IPS will help to improve their market position by making more effective use of their development potential. Supporting the sustainable development of the cooperative sector is in the interest not only of cooperative bank managers but also of local communities whose need for financial services is met by those banks. This is also important in terms of ensuring the stability of the financial system, which is monitored by the NBP and other institutions in the financial security network. In summary, the National Bank of Poland supports the further integration of the cooperative banking sector in the form of IPS. This seems an indispensable condition for its long-term operation. As far as the cooperative credit and savings banks sector is concerned, in 2016, as in previous years, Sanitation processes were carried out. The capital situation of some banks remains difficult and the sector needs recapitalisation. In 2016, as a result of restructuring operations, three cashiers were taken over by the banks and five were declared bankrupt. It was necessary to involve the Banking Guarantee Fund, which allocated PLN 600 million to the payment of guaranteed funds to depositors from five cash registers, which reduced its resources and caused the rest of the participants to restore the deposit guarantee scheme. Strengthening the resilience of the financial sector to systemic risk materialisation and monitoring its functioning in the context of sustainable economic development are the subject of an assessment of the Financial Stability Committee in the macro-prudential formula. I would like to move on to a broader discussion of the activities of this macro-prudential body and to share with you my observations on this subject. The collegial formula of the committee is a solution resulting from the existing institutional conditions that we have in Poland. This is due to the fact that in Poland, the tasks and competences of actions to maintain the stability of the financial system are legally assigned to as many as four institutions of the financial security network, i.e. Minister of Finance, National Bank of Poland, the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Bank Guarantee Fund. None of the institutions represented in the committee has a mandate or sufficient tools to address systemic risk, but it is the National Bank of Poland that plays a leading role, because it is the President of the NBP who is the chairman of the committee in the macro-prudential formula, and the NBP provides the service of the committee and provides its basic analytical facilities. In this context, micro-prudential supervision is particularly important, as the effective functioning of the financial security network is only possible with close coordination and harmonious cooperation between micro- and macro-prudential surveillance. Focusing on micro- and macro-prudential supervision in the NBP would undoubtedly improve risk surveillance in the national financial system and increase the effectiveness of crisis prevention. It would be easier and more effective to diagnose systemic risk and use supervisory tools that today's CRS-M can only recommend the institutions represented in the committee, but does not affect their final shape and compliance, i.e. compliance with the requirements of the instruments used by operators in practice. At the same time, international experience clearly shows that in a crisis situation, a model in which micro-prudential supervision is located outside the central bank does not work. The location of micro-prudential supervision at the central bank, however, allows to concentrate responsibility, eliminates problems with the exchange of information and conflicts of competence. As a result, such a model ensures efficient and decisive action so that losses can be effectively reduced. These are important reasons why it has now been decided in most European Union countries, including the Banking Union, to entrust the role of micro-prudential supervision to central banks. I have already informed you about this issue on several occasions, and I have spoken in this Chamber. One of the most important topics that the Committee addressed in the first year of its action in the macro-prudential formula was the issue of housing currency loans mentioned above. In August 2016, on my initiative, as Chairman of the Financial Stability Committees, a Working Party was set up in this macro-prudential formula. The risk of monetary housing loans. Its aim was to propose recommendations for solutions aimed at the financial stability of the restructuring of foreign housing loans mainly granted in the first decade of the 21st century. The setting up of a working group took place when the Committee recognised the urgent need to address the issue of foreign currency housing loans, and considered it advisable to actively involve all the institutions of the financial security networks represented in the PSC in this process. It should be noted that the National Bank of Poland is constantly assessing the risk factors associated with the portfolio of foreign currency housing loans. The analysis shows that, economically, the portfolio of these loans does not pose a significant threat to the stability of the financial system. The situation of the vast majority of households that have borrowed currency loans is good and their resilience to further high exchange rate shocks. This is linked to an increase in nominal wages, low interest rates for foreign currency loans and higher income requirements applied. As a result, foreign exchange housing loans maintain high quality and are well repaid. As a result of several months of research and analysis by this working group in January this year, the Committee adopted a recommendation for restructuring the housing portfolio in foreign currency. The Committee rejected the arrangements resulting in the statutory conversion of foreign exchange housing loans at a rate significantly different from the current market rate. The statutory conversion of housing loans, especially time-focused loans, could lead to very significant losses in some banks, would threaten the establishment of claims by bank owners in international arbitration proceedings and would result in pressure to weaken the gold. Cumulation of all these phenomena could in extreme cases jeopardise the financial and macroeconomic stability of Poland. The Committee has advocated solutions that would lead to the restructuring of the foreign exchange housing loan portfolio on the basis of a voluntary agreement between banks and their customers and set out the framework for such restructuring. All possible measures could be taken to encourage settlements between borrowers and banks have been analysed. Given the complexity of the currency loan restructuring process, it was considered that solutions should refer to a wide range of instruments at the disposal of the institutions represented in the Financial Stability Committee, in particular the Minister of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission. As it would be complicated and long to make all the recommendations for foreign exchange loans, I would only like to quote a few specific recommendations. These include, first, an increase in risk weight and for banks using advanced equivalent models, an increase in the minimum value of the default loss parameter, so-called. loss given default, for foreign exchange exposures secured by mortgages on immovable property, secondly, the establishment of a systemic risk buffer, thirdly, changes in the operating rules of the Credit Support Fund, fourthly, the issue by the KNF of a supervisory recommendation on good practices in restructuring of foreign exchange housing loan portfolios, fifthly, an increase in capital add-ons under the so-called. Pillar II. The institutions of the Financial Stability Committee shall implement successive recommendations. However, this process involves among others. with the need to carry out appropriate procedures as defined in European law and to comply with the necessary vacathio legis in the context of statutory amendments. Part of the recommendation has already been implemented. The rest is at a very advanced, final stage of work. As a result of the actions taken by the relevant public institutions, a legal and regulatory framework is being created to promote the gradual restructuring of the housing foreign exchange loan portfolio in a way that does not jeopardise the stability of the Polish financial system. The voluntary restructuring process should lead to a tangible reduction of the foreign exchange risk of borrowers. As I mentioned, 2016 was the first full year of the Financial Stability Committee's activities in the macro-prudential formula after its formation in December 2015. The Committee met regularly and examined systemic risks and issued recommendations at each meeting. The Committee recommended keeping the countercyclical buffer at 0% in the quarterly cycle. It also issued a recommendation and opinions that were used by the Financial Supervision Commission to identify 12 systemic institutions on the national market and impose appropriate capital requirements on them. The main analytical documents used by the macro-prudential supervisory authority are prepared by the NBP. The report on the stability of the financial system published twice a year and the annual report on the sustainability of the Polish economy. The Committee also receives from the NBP the results of analyses, studies and other documents for the assessment of systemic risk and thus necessary for the implementation of macro-prudential policies. To sum up the work of the Financial Stability Committee in the macro-prudential formula so far, it is worth noting that it has been effectively coordinating and mobilising action at the stage of prevention of systemic risk. The following years will show how appropriate the Committee's recommendations are and to what extent they are respected by the addressees. We will then be able to assess how effective macro-prudential policy is in our Polish institutional conditions. The effectiveness of the central bank's core function of supporting financial stability and crisis management would significantly improve the integration of financial supervision with the National Bank of Poland. Foreign experience shows that after the financial crisis due to the apparent conflict of competence and the weakness of cooperation mechanisms in crisis conditions, there has been an increase in the involvement of central banks in the supervision of the financial system. Such responsibilities are currently carried out by central banks in the 21 countries of the European Union and by the European Central Bank within the framework of the so-called "central banks." a banking union. The most important arguments in favour of placing financial supervision in central bank structures are the central bank's last chance lender function and the possibility of coordinating micro- and macro-prudential supervision in one institution. In order to perform an effective supervisory function, independence is also necessary, which is undisputed in the case of a central bank. Therefore, the gradual merger of the National Bank of Poland and the Financial Supervision Commission seems necessary to me. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! One of the main areas of activity of the National Bank of Poland is the management of foreign reserves. At the end of 2016, the official reserve assets of the National Bank of Poland reached the equivalent of EUR 108.1 billion ensuring that the relevant level of commonly used reserve adequacy indicators is maintained. An appropriate level of foreign exchange reserves serves to strengthen the financial credibility of the country in its assessment, among others. international institutions, credit rating agencies and foreign investors. This influences, among others. at the cost of financing on global markets, as well as supporting the stability of the Polish currency. Incidentally, reserves can also be used to support the stability of financial markets under conditions of significant disruption to their functioning. The priority in managing the foreign exchange reserves of the National Bank of Poland is to ensure a high level of security of the funds invested and their proper liquidity. Only after these two criteria have been met, the NBP takes action to increase the profitability of reserves, e.g. expands the investment spectrum with financial instruments that offer potentially higher profitability than the most liquid bonds in the US dollar and in euro. Currently, NBP also invests in British, Norwegian, Australian and New Zealand securities. In 2016, the rate of return on reserves calculated in PLN reached 5,2%. Its relatively high level was primarily due to the strengthening of most reserve currencies against the gold this year, i.e. in 2016. The return rate depends on market conditions: changes in the rate of gold to foreign currencies, prices of investment instruments and profitability. Under the expected acceleration of global economic growth and inflation and the resulting expectations of a gradual departure of central banks from the comodative monetary policy, there is a growing likelihood of a rise in profitability, i.e. a fall in securities prices in global markets. This would adversely affect both the income and the rate of return on foreign reserve management activities. Also, the potential continuation of the appreciation of the golden trend started in December 2016, which is conducive to good moods in emerging markets, as well as national factors, are at risk of creating high so-called. the costs not realised from the valuation of foreign currency resources. Under such circumstances, NBP has established a reserve in previous years to cover possible losses in this respect. The official reserve assets of NBP are also included in monetary gold. Its stock has not changed in recent years and is around 103 t. In 2016, the Council The NBP received a profit of EUR 6,8 million for the investment of gold, i.e. approx. PLN 29.7 million. High Izbo! In 2016, the Council NBP achieved the highest financial result of PLN 9.2 billion over the last decade. The profit generated by NBP was mainly due to the effective management of foreign exchange reserves. This was supported by favourable market conditions in terms of exchange rates and securities prices in foreign financial markets. In accordance with current regulations, 95% NBP's profits feed the state budget and 5% is written off to the bank's reserve fund. 13 June 2017 The NBP therefore transferred PLN 8700 million to the State budget. The independent external auditor examining the annual accounts of the NBP for 2016 issued an opinion without reservation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of 2016, the value of cash in circulation in Poland amounted to PLN 187.6 billion and compared to the previous year it was higher by PLN 24.3 billion, i.e. by 14.9%. Low interest rates and increases in household consumer income and expenditure were conducive to an increase in the value of cash in circulation. In 2016 efforts to modernise the security features of circulation banknotes with a nominal value of between PLN 10 and 200 have been completed since 2009. The actions taken over recent years have been aimed at reducing the cost of emissions by improving the sustainability of banknotes and introducing more modern security features than previously used. The last stage of the modernization of banknotes was the introduction into circulation in February 2016 of a nominal note of PLN 200 with improved security features. Another measure leading to a reduction in the cost of emissions, which was also a response to the market demand of the NBP, was the preparation of a new banknote with a nominal value of PLN 500 for circulation. This happened in February this year. The introduction of a new denomination allowed not only to reduce emission costs, but also to improve the management of the strategic stock of banknotes held by NBP, which is currently held in the two highest banknotes denominations. According to the assumptions, the share of 500 PLN banknote in circulation will be relatively low in the coming years. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016, the Council The National Bank of Poland has actively participated in the work taking place in the European Union to strengthen the stability of the financial system. In addition, he actively cooperated with the European Council for Foreign Affairs. The systemic risk, the body responsible for macro-prudential supervision of the Union's financial system, in order to contribute to addressing systemic risks that could jeopardise financial stability in Europe. At the forum of both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the National Bank of Poland worked together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to strengthen Poland's activity and position in both these institutions, which are important partners in the implementation of global, regional and national development policy. In 2016, the Council The NBP, together with the Ministry of Finance, worked on granting Poland access to the so-called. a flexible credit line for the next period. They ended in January 2017 with the decision of the IMF Executive Board to grant Poland access to FCL for the next 2 years. According to the request of the Polish authorities, the amount of funds made available under the FCL was halved compared to those made available during the previous period. Currently, the value of the flexible credit line opened for Poland amounts to about $9 billion US dollars. Since 2010, the beneficiary of the line is the government and NBP operates the line as a financial agent of the government under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation Further decisions to extend Poland's access to FCL confirm that the IMF highly assesses our economy, its foundations and the potential for further development. At the same time, access to FCL is an additional safeguard for the Polish economy against the negative consequences of materialization of risks that persist in the external environment of our country. 2016 was the first operational year of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which Poland is a founding member. Representatives of the NBP and the Ministry of Finance worked closely to evaluate the first infrastructure projects financed by the Bank and to formulate recommendations on the strategy and functioning of the institution. Maintaining active involvement in the bank's work contributes to increasing the influence of Poland on its activities and to strengthening our country's position on the international stage, especially in Asian countries. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the areas in support of the NBP's core tasks is economic education. NBP's activities focus on explaining market economy principles, the role of the central bank, bringing economic concepts and phenomena closer together and combating financial exclusion. Last year, a special event promoting the educational activity of the National Bank of Poland was opened in April 2016. National Bank of Poland's Money Centre Sławomir Skrzypek, the founder of the establishment. As a result of several years of work, we managed to create a modern educational and exhibition facility, one of the best, if not the best, and the largest in the world. The exhibition part is equipped with modern multimedia tools that support educational activities. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, in Poland the positive situation remains despite the temporary weakening of GDP dynamics last year. Growth is fostered by growing consumer demand supported by higher household incomes in terms of employment and wages growth, as well as by the payment of educational benefits under the "Family 500+" programme. In the Polish economy there is no increase in imbalances, either external or internal. Sustainable growth is accompanied by low but positive price dynamics. This means that the NBP effectively implements the central bank's statutory monetary policy obligations. At the end of my speech, I would like to stress once again that the financial system in Poland, and in particular the banking sector, is functioning in a stable manner. This is demonstrated by the financial results of the banks for 2016, which are more than 8% higher than the year before. Banks shall continue to strengthen the capital base in line with the recommendations of financial supervision by increasing equity and capital. Bank lending is increasing at a pace close to nominal GDP growth and does not generate any macroeconomic imbalances. It was encouraged last year by low interest rates and stable economic growth. As President of the National Bank of Poland, I declare my readiness to take actions that will allow us to maintain a stable level of prices, as well as actions to support the stability of the financial system and sustainable economic growth. A prerequisite for the effectiveness of the activities carried out is close cooperation between the NBP and the centres of economic power, in line with the constitutional principle of cooperation between the authorities of the state, which I hope will continue to develop for the benefit of our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Dear guests! On 7 June 2017, Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016 to the Committee on Public Finance in order to get acquainted with it. The Commission for Public Finance took note of the report at its meeting on 20 June 2017. This report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016 was approved by the Monetary Policy Council on 30 May 2017. The report presents the implementation of tasks by the National Bank of Poland in 2016 in the following areas: monetary policy, activity for a stable financial system, emission activity, foreign exchange reserve management, foreign exchange activity, activity for the payment system, service of the Treasury, analytical and research activities, statistical activity, educational and information activities, international cooperation. The report also presents the legislative activities, internal activities and summary financial statements of the National Bank of Poland as at 31 December 2016, together with the report of the independent auditor on the summary financial statements. In 2016, monetary policy was conducted in line with the monetary policy objectives for 2016. As in previous years, the main objective of monetary policy was to maintain price stability while promoting sustainable economic growth and the stability of the financial system. In conducting monetary policy, the National Bank of Poland continued to use the strategy of the inflation target, as the President also mentioned today. In 2016, the average employment in the National Bank of Poland was 91 jobs less than in 2015 and amounted to 3296 jobs. The financial result of the National Bank of Poland for 2016 amounted to PLN 9200 million. The result was mainly a positive result from exchange rate differences and a positive result from the management of reserves less monetary policy costs and operating and depreciation costs. The report of the Committee on Public Finances on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016 was published in print no. 1662. After hearing the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016, after hearing the President at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the representatives of the Bank, the Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt this report without reservation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, within a range of 52 to 4 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin has the first vote. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In presenting the position of the Law and Justice Club on the report on the implementation of the state budget for 2016, I would first of all like to point out that it was a draft budget, which was prepared by the previous government in a fundamental way. In the shape in which it was prepared by the previous government, it was a conservative and short-sighted budget - without a vision, without answers to the most important problems that stood before our country, such as demographic collapse, social programs. That's what this budget wasn't looking for. [[We're one step away from collapse.]] It was only when the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło assumed responsibility for the country that he introduced into the budget records that allowed the electoral announcements to be carried out that were at the root of the Victory of the Law and Justice. This form of budget was very strongly criticised by the opposition, which tried to negate the records, especially those pro-social records, with the programme "Family 500+..." headed by lobbying abroad, misrepresentations were made about the economic situation in the country and pointed to the alleged populism of the rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be literal - literally a few quotes from the most important opposition politicians. Well, in November 2016, Grzegorz Schetyna was so informed, he had black visions, he said: Poland cannot afford to give 500 PLN per child, the budget can't stand it, even those who don't know each other on budgets, i.e. the politicians of PiS - it's Grzegorz Schetyna. He was followed by Sławomir Neumann, who said in December 2015: You received a good budget after the Platform government, you received a economy that is developing at a good pace, and you broke the budget, and especially you broke it on the income side. And in order to be even more explicit, ladies and gentlemen, Sławomir Neumann continued: You have adopted exceptionally optimistic, unrealistic revenues of the state budget, excessive, virtually impossible. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that if it wasn't for that revenue that you planned your budget expenditure. This, ladies and gentlemen, which we have already heard in the report which I presented at the beginning of this discussion, shows how wrong, unrealistic and discrediting it was for those politicians who made these announcements. But come on, Richard Petru, September 2016: To spend, you have to earn. 500+ is unfunded," said the modern leader. Finally, yours - I address the opposition - economic guru Leszek Balcerowicz, 5 December 2015: If the promises are fulfilled, there will be a marked slowdown in growth and the public finance crisis. Raising the minimum wage will lead to the development of the grey zone. That is all, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to outstanding economic authorities - I am speaking here, of course, with a snack - which provided for an economic disaster and a public finance disaster under the rule of law and justice. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Where's the investment money?]] And what does reality look like? Now for some information. The revenue that was supposed to collapse, which was allegedly unrealistic in this budget, amounted to almost PLN 315 billion and was as much as 25.5 billion higher than in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, this did not come from anything, these higher revenues did not come from anything, but came from the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, because these revenues consisted of approximately PLN 3 billion higher excise revenue, as well as higher VAT receipts for 2016. These VAT receipts calculated on an accrual basis increased by PLN 5.2 billion, i.e. by 4.1% , and amounted to PLN 131 billion. In addition, there was a record profit from the National Bank of Poland, almost PLN 8 billion, as well as an impact such as bank tax, a new tax passed by the parliamentary majority, i.e. PLN 3.5 billion. These are the real numbers that come from the government's actions, not the case. Action is also important here, which is aimed primarily at sealing the tax system. This is about a law taken by this Parliament, already in this term of office, such as the anti-tax avoidance clause, the single control file, the reform of the tax services. This is all, ladies and gentlemen, the facts that led to the fact that experts speaking about the government's actions in this matter have no doubt. I'm just going to quote two words. Prof. Dominik Gajewski from the School of Economics, quote: If the sealing of the tax system already brought PLN 5.5 billion in the first year, you can talk about significant effects. I Tomasz Kassel - partner in PwC Poland: For the last 1.5 years, the PiS government has sealed the tax system more than its predecessors for 10 years. Indeed, these actions have been assessed by independent experts. No wonder, because for the previous eight years the government had not seen, did not see this problem, did not see the problem of billions of zlotys coming out of the tax system. It can be said that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, implementing this budget in 2016, had to cope with the collapse of tax collection. Again, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be literal, I would like to present to you a chart showing how it was falling... otherwise, as the gap in the collection of VAT was growing in 2009 and 2015 as these losses looked like. Only the arrears revealed in 2009 in VAT exceeded PLN 10 billion, and already in the last year of the Civic Platform's government, in 2015, it was over PLN 42 billion. This was the tax collection system that the government inherited from its predecessors. So much for income, ladies and gentlemen. Deficit, because this is also associated with this - PLN 46.2 billion, which is less by 8.5 billion than planned. It should be stressed that this deficit, which did not deviate from the 2015 deficit, has been achieved despite the fact that for the first time in many years the government has not used accounting tricks so characteristic of the times of the PO-PSL government. This deficit was not artificially understated, for example by the transfer of debt to the National Road Fund or the unpayable loans to the Social Insurance Institution. [[4 billion transfers.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as expenditures are concerned, by PLN 360 billion, they are lower than planned in the Act, by PLN 7.7 billion. However, what is important is not what these taxes were and were lower than planned, but what they were spent on. First of all, what is worth emphasising is twice as much spending on social assistance. Expenditure for 2016 is 34 billion, and in 2015 only 14.6 billion, which is more than twice as low as in 2016. Other social policy tasks - an increase of 31% for 2016. Expenditure for 500+ - 17 billion PLN. The flagship program, this program, which was to be unfunded, as the leaders of the total opposition announced, proved to be a great success, a success which translated directly into the quality of life of Poles, because the number of PLN 17 billion translated into an increase in retail sales by 5.7%. Poles could finally afford to buy basic livelihoods. Often Polish families had to refuse these purchases. According to the Ipsos survey, 17.3 million Poles went on vacation in 2016. It was 1.5 million more Poles than in 2015. So normal things would seem, for a European, like the possibility of summer rest, which for many was not available at the time of the governments of POs and PSL, thanks to the 500+ programme could finally be realized. Families with children could finally go to the sea or to the mountains, and regardless of what some celebrities thought, this is a great success of this government last year and of this budget, for which the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło was responsible. And finally, one more data that is, I think, extremely important. Thanks to the 500+ programme, thanks to such good implementation of the extreme budget Child poverty decreased by 94%. What was a disgrace to the Third Republic, hungry children, children who were stuck in poverty, in poverty, was no longer a problem. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, thanks to fair work we managed to provide funding for the implementation of our great plan for Poland's recovery. The implemented expenditures serve to develop, improve the standard of life of Poles. 2016 was a good year for the budget and, as the figures for the part of 2017, which we have behind us show, 2017 can be, and will certainly be, even better and we will be able to implement our next electoral promises. As I said at the beginning, although this budget was not fully budgeted by the Government of Law and Justice, it was largely inherited, we managed neither to raise budget deficits nor to cause any perturbation for the public finance system to achieve great social goals. These issues will be discussed in detail by the other Members of the Law and Justice who will speak in the budgetary debate - about cultural issues, matters of security, education, social matters or health, because they are also, I think, very successful in the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u49	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present together with colleagues an assessment of the implementation of the state budget in 2016. In my short speech, I will present the overall proportions of budget implementation and evaluate them. The macroeconomic assumptions accompanying the 2016 budget have proved to be incorrect. GDP growth has fallen to 2.7% in real terms , it was therefore lower than the projected rate of GDP growth by more than 1 percentage point. Instead of the assumed inflation, there was a deflation. In 2016, there was also a huge increase in the Treasury's debt, the largest in history. This debt increased by PLN 94 billion, which is much more than in the crisis of 2010, both in absolute terms and in relation to GDP. Unsettlingly much, as much as 7.5% , was a decrease in fixed capital expenditure in the economy. Public investment has fallen, stagnation has also occurred, and even decline in some areas of business investment, due to uncertainty of the future among entrepreneurs. The planned tax revenues were not made despite optimistic announcements. First of all, no tax plan on goods and services has been implemented, which is of the utmost fiscal importance for the state budget. 98.4% was collected in this case the planned receipts. Significantly lower than planned was also tax revenue from certain financial institutions, because only 63.8% were realised here. the planned revenue. Nor has the plan for the extraction of certain fossils been implemented. The government could not construct an EU retail tax that was compatible with EU law. Therefore, there was no income here at all. The revenue side of the budget... It should also be noted that certain amounts of planned income tax revenue have been exceeded. However, the revenue side of the budget saved much higher than the planned deposit from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. It decided that the revenue budget had been implemented. Thanks to this, the revenue side of the budget was completed in 100.5% , i.e. 0.5% More. Thanks to almost 5 billion over-planned revenues from NBP, the budget was implemented on the income side. In the course of the implementation of the budget, the planned budget expenditure has been significantly reduced. They decreased by PLN 7.7 billion, which represents more than 2% the total amount of expenditure. This can be called savings, but it is hard to enjoy, as this involved, above all, reducing public sector investment expenditure. Regardless of the amounts and proportion of budgetary expenditure, irregularities must be identified in this respect. They occurred e.g. in the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. That's what my colleagues will be talking about, but it's worth noting that it's here, among other things. about the payments of huge, almost five billion, advance payments by MON. Thus, when the budget is in deficit, huge advances are paid, so we have nothing for it this year. 37 limos are purchased, further, also the purchase of VIP aircraft, as we know, involved a gross violation of the law. So that's what spending looked like. There have also been omissions in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction in the areas of housing and rail transport programmes under section: Transport. The statement of revenue and expenditure shows that the government budget deficit has been reduced by PLN 8.6 billion, i.e. by 15.7%. , but as indicated above, this was mainly due to the reduction of investment expenditure. It is difficult to predict precisely the development of the budgetary economy and the regulation relating to this economy, i.e. revenue and budgetary expenditure, but huge government debt, as well as the projected increase in budget expenditure, probably resulted in increased fiscalism and therefore in the search for new sources of revenue. Recent proposals for new regulations confirm the relevance of these projections. On the other hand, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is very optimistic about the situation of public finances. So we're dealing with a situation where, on the one hand, it's said that income realization is great, but on the other hand, we see a search for new sources of income. It even leads, ladies and gentlemen, to a very interesting argument from this bleacher. So far, I have been used to arguing that new burdens have been imposed in such a way: there is no money available for this and that, so it is necessary to introduce or increase a tax or charge. Such an argument is understandable, although not everyone can like it. You can hear a new argument lately. On July 12, the Prime Minister argued that it is precisely because there is an excellent budgetary situation that a law on a local government fund should be passed, which will introduce a new toll. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, it was beautiful.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what's gonna go behind this good situation that we're always hearing about, what new burdens are gonna be associated with it. [[Fear to be afraid.]] On the part of these burdens it can be said that it is good, and it will be even worse. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Parliamentary Club Civic Platform due to numerous reservations on the implementation of the budget is against the adoption of the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Against discharge.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u51	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am somewhat sorry that there were no Members responsible for the last petrol+ project in the right-hand room, because the President of NBP, Prof. Adam Glapiński, said that the low prices of oil raw materials have just brought about a good situation for households and businesses. For those words, Professor, thank you as a former student. [[Voice from the room: So what?]] I also have a question for you, President NIK. This year, you've made 350 follow-up requests. Question: "Was the conclusions of last year's audit carried out by the government?" In 2016, we had some disgusting records. Public debt rose to PLN 1 trillion, the budget hole reached the unimaginable PLN 46 billion, i.e. last year's average Law and Justice owed each working Pole another 3,000. zł, which means that in total each of the employees is indebted to more than 60,000. zł. Law and Justice and the Civic Platform can congratulate each other, go head-to-head in a race for the title of Poland's largest indebtor. The rate of debt growth in recent years is enormous, and every year it increases by another 20% what's affecting the budget. Imagine that every month you've been borrowing 20% of what you've been earning for years. This approach makes it more and more frequent, instead of cutting spending, reducing bureaucracy, simplifying procedures and employment, the government reaches to the pockets of Poles, raising taxes. And so in 2016, we had a higher VAT rate of 23%, and this was done by the Civic Platform, but Law and Justice went into the same shoes. Shoes too tight a few sizes for their spending plans. Shoes that break slowly and break. Therefore, Poles are forced to be a court shoemaker and to plant any holes. 2016 is also the year of new taxes, as well as this year, 2017. In 2016, we had bank, commercial or even more expensive OC. This trend is being shifted to this year, i.e. the increase in VAT, the attempt to introduce more expensive fuel - petrol+ or the increase in water tax. Don't go that way. The economic situation is relatively good, not thanks to you, because you are disturbing rather than helping, but yet you are spending on power, and this could lead to a economic crisis in a situation of minor turbulence on world markets. And about them, as you know, it is not so difficult, there was already an Internet bubble, then a real estate bubble, probably another one will appear in a moment and you, as people responsible for Poland, should prepare for those dry years that will happen sooner or later - that is, we do not spend when it is good, we only save for a moment when it will be bad. Do you know that in the United States, about 80% of millionaire basketball players are bankrupt within 10 years of their career? Because they think they can still live beyond the state, and they don't save for later. Looking at your heights in centimeters, you're not exactly basketball players, but you're a success. Hence our conclusion. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of Kukiz 15, the third political force... [[Insolence.]] ...and future generations I make an informal request to stop the irresponsible debt of Poles - all those who are 80, 40, 20 years old and, above all, those who will just come into this world and be born with a huge debt. Another question. When the Ministry of Defence intends to settle advances, in total it is already 9 billion PLN, from 2014, 2015, 2016? We want to know what that money was meant for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u53	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Last year's budget was a failure of the Minister of Finance and I don't know why so much optimism on the right side of the room. The public debt at the end of 2016 amounted to PLN 965 billion, which gives us more than 52% in relation to GDP. At this rate, Poland did not even indebted itself in times of crisis in 2010 and 2011. The debt grew faster than was planned by the government, which means, of course, that sooner than planned, we are approaching the prudential threshold. According to the EU methodology, the debt exceeded PLN 1 trillion. Who's gonna pay it off? The government spends more than it should. And it's because of you that our debts will be paying off our children. You can't even count. In the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the 2016 budget, the revenue and deficit of the public finance sector have been wrongly calculated. The revenues were overestimated by more than PLN 3 billion. The correctly calculated deficit was nearly 50 billion, not, as the government reported at the end of the year, 46 billion. If it were to be added to the loan granted to the Social Insurance Fund of over PLN 4 billion, the deficit would already be 2,7% in relation to GDP. Where's that low deficit you've been talking about for months at the end of last year and early this year? Because I can't see him. The next year you're like a creative accountant, giving loans that are unrefundable, thus concealing the deficit. [[But who's got the loans?]] We all know that the Social Security Fund will never give back that money because it's gone and it generates a hole every year. The situation in the FUS remains difficult, and even worse, you will make it even more difficult. Next year, the Social Insurance Fund may run out of up to PLN 63 billion. And these aren't my calculations, that's from the ZUS report. This is a black scenario for the PiS government to reduce the retirement age. But unfortunately, this pessimistic vision can come true. It is enough that the right to early retirement will be exercised by all entitled and unemployment in Poland will remain at the current level. The missing funds for the payment of benefits will, of course, have to be complemented by the state's cashier, and the higher cost of the state is a greater burden for its citizens. The Social Insurance Institution report is a clipping of the problem, because the Social Security Office only handles part of the pension. The FUS deficit includes a hole generated by KRUS and all pensions implemented directly from the state budget. In conclusion, all these figures cannot be overlooked that we already spend nearly 1/4 of the state's expenditure on pension benefits today. If the black ZUS scenario is fulfilled, next year over PLN 100 billion will have to be spent on pensions from the state budget. In the following years, of course, this amount will increase due to the effects of ageing. With so many pensioners on their shoulders and so high the cost of benefits, young people will never catch up with Europe. Many experts stress that this is a key element determining our slow pursuit of the western part of Europe and our economic growth. The budget revenue did not flow as the Minister of Finance had for many months, and the VAT revenue that was to be realised above the plan, even did not reach it, was nearly 2% lower than the plan. The budget was implemented only thanks to one-off influences from the sale of LTE frequencies and influences from the National Bank of Poland, which were higher than planned. Many doubts are raised by the mechanism used in December, where very high VAT returns were paid once. Implemented in December Ub. refunds amounted to over PLN 13 billion and were 6 billion higher than the average of the other months of the previous year. Where's the public finances? You paid VAT returns without checking whether they were actually due, just and only to transfer those payments from this year. Today you are saying that you have a great state of public finances, and in fact we should include at least 6 billion dollars paid in December, an undue refund. [[Why are you yelling like that?]] You guys are taxing me badly. [[Oh!]] Last year, tax arrears continued to rise dramatically. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2016, tax arrears increased by more than 30% and amounted to PLN 76.8 billion. [[Because they've been revealed.]] In the same report we read - Mr, you will calm down, I did not disturb you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - that enforcement proceedings carried out against tax fraud entities, including empty invoices, have not been effective. Those aren't my words. Those are the words from the NIK report. Even if you were able to detect such irregularities, the collection of these taxes on fraudsters was negligible, because at the stage of the investigation the criminals no longer had any assets or funds in the bank accounts from which they could be recovered. Where, then, is the effectiveness of chasing criminals? All you can do is drain legitimate entrepreneurs, making their lives difficult. 2016 is, of course, also the year of slowing down the economy. GDP only increased by 2.7% , which represents more than 1% below the plan set out in the Budget Act. Lower GDP is the result of a dramatic fall in investment, both public and private. Entrepreneurs don't invest because they're afraid of you, and the state is because you've drastically cut money for investments. Spending on GDP amounted to around 40% and were the lowest since 2000. Unfortunately, they are not due to any constraints or expenditure in the administration, from administrative reform, but from cuts in property expenditure, which were more than 1/4 lower than in 2015. And what is property expenditure, sir? It's nothing more than spending on the investment of your own budget units. That's exactly what I told you two years ago, and I'm going to repeat it today, after two years: you're going to be determined by one budget item, 500+, and you're going to be cutting all the money you can get in other places. You will not have the money to push Poland forward to implement any investments that push us further in Poland. This one bag of t. Your entire budget is determined today. So you have no money for roads, no melioration, no retention, no funding for health care, no development, no research in business. You have no money for anything that pushes Poland forward, which is why in panic you are looking for money in Polish wallets. I can count it again. 4 billion PLN - bank tax, 2 billion PLN - suspended trade tax, 4 billion PLN - temporarily withdrawn from the Sejm fuel levy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 4 billion PLN - yesterday adopted Water Law, 4 billion PLN - electricity charge... [[That's it!]] ...who's waiting in line, 5% - gas, 5% - ZUS and 1% - maintained higher VAT. In this situation, the modern club will never sign up for such a fiscal policy of the state and for such poor public finance management. [[It's not a loss.]] We will not support budget discharge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u55	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion of the report on implementation of the budget, together with the analysis presented by NIK, as well as the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland and information on guarantees and guarantees given by the State Treasury within a few minutes is quite difficult, I admit. So I will try, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, only to signal issues which I consider to be quite important and which reflect the importance of the management of public peas last year. In 2016, the pace of economic growth slowed in Poland. GDP was 2.7% , and let me remind you that in 2015 it was 3.8%. That's a 1.1% drop in pace. In 2014 it was 3,3% - so it is even lower than 2014 GDP nominally reached PLN 1851 billion and was 2.9% higher than in 2015 The main factor in GDP growth was domestic demand, only net exports had a minor impact and the biggest decrease was recorded on the investment side. The rate of private consumption in 2016 was 3.8% and this was the highest result since 2008. Of course, the factor determining the increase in this consumption was certainly the 500-plus family programme, which reached the amount of PLN 17 100 million. There was a clear negative impact on GDP growth, with a significant decrease in investment, as almost 8%. And this phenomenon, we believe, must be considered the most worrying, all the more so as the decline in investment continues and the trend in this respect is also shifting to the current year. It must be borne in mind, however, that without investment there is no development, without investment at best we stand still, and we are certainly not moving forward. Property expenditure decreased by almost 30% for 2015. With regard to inflationary processes, it is known that by October there was a deflation. On average, consumption prices were 0.6% throughout 2016 lower than 2015 Despite slowing economic activity, the labour market situation has improved. Average employment in the national economy increased by 2.3% on a yearly basis and the unemployment rate at the end of 2016 was 8.3%, while it should be noted that this rate is decreasing from year to year. At the end of 2015 it was a one-digit value - 9,7, and today, as we heard, the President of the National Bank of Poland said that it already is 7.2. Turning to the basic size of the state budget: both revenue and expenditure increased by 8.8% and the government budget deficit amounted to more than PLN 46 159 million, which represents 2,5% GDP. It was higher than 2015 by PLN 3.5 billion, although we remember that on 15 December 2015 some of the funds were transferred to the following year. The deficit of European funds amounted to PLN 12.6 billion, hence the total deficit amounted to PLN 58 800 million and was PLN 13 billion higher than in the previous year, which represents 3.2% GDP, 0.6% more than in 2015. Analyzing the revenue of the state budget: there is no miraculous revelation here, VAT is below the plan, CIT was only 568 million, and bank tax was below the plan. Exceptionally, however, there were these one-off payments from the profit of almost PLN 8 billion and from the digital dividend - 9.2 billion, which totals PLN 17 billion of these one-off payments, just as much as the 500+ programme needed. In spending, almost a 10% increase in expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt should be noted. Public debt overall increased by a very high amount of 87 916 million. The ratio of government debt to GDP was 52.1% , and the total government and local government debt exceeded PLN 1 trillion, which represents 54.5% GDP. Turning to the final evaluation: The Supreme Audit Chamber has given a positive opinion on most of the items of the state budget, budget managers and individuals. In his assessments, the NIK pointed to irregularities, especially those repeated. He noted the delays in the implementation of the financial perspective... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, there are literally three sentences left. ...and the poor financial condition of the Social Insurance Fund. He negatively assessed the implementation of the budget of the Polish Space Agency and pointed to irregularities in Part 29: National Defence and Part 39: Transport. Problems related to the difficult housing situation and poor quality of health care were also identified. In the 2016 European consumer health ranking. Poland occupies 31. place in 35 evaluated countries. We will vote on the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club regarding the documents being processed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the committee's report on the implementation of the State budget for 2016. The implementation of the 2016 budget is an event of an even historical nature. This is because we are dealing with a breakthrough in the very understanding of what the state budget is. For the first time, the budget in a real and measurable way, and not only for slogans, began to serve both the state and millions of Polish families, millions of Polish citizens. We have never had a pro-state budget policy in Poland as much as we have before. Dozens of times the Sejm has approved, and subsequent governments have implemented financial policies that are even the least unresponsive to the worsening demographic collapse. For the previous majority of the Seyms and for previous governments, nothing even meant such terrifying facts for every patriot as the fact that already a few years ago Poland began to belong to countries with the lowest birth level in the world. It was for the previous parliamentary majority and for the previous government that Poland began to belong to the dying countries. The decisions of the then rulers whose lips today are so filled with phrases about patriotism, the welfare of the state and the future of Poland indicate that the demographic catastrophe, to which Poland inevitably began to pursue, had no meaning for them. Only for the current parliamentary majority, only for the current government has this problem been dealt with with with with due seriousness. This has been found in the budget and, most importantly, according to the assumptions made, this prostate and prodemographic budget has been implemented. A few more words will be answered by my colleague from the circle Ireneus Gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u59	Thank you, Member. I'm asking you, sir. Ah, here we go to the next speaker. Mr Jan Szewczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u60	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Since there were very substantive and precise speeches and representatives, the President of the National Bank of Poland, and the President of NIK Mr Kwiatkowski, and the President of the Sejm of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like to say a few more general words, although I came to report part 79: Service of the sovereign debt in the field of public debt. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we were in a position in this House to hold a debate in such a convention on such important matters as the public debt presented by Mrs Zwierzan just now, and even, I would say, in such a convention as you present by Prof. Nykiel, I think we could have a substantive debate. On the other hand, it is certainly difficult to discuss with these representatives of Parliament, with these environments, with those people who say about the Polish Sejm that it is Reichstag, who are proposing a debate with baseball, and the Polish government considers it almost a dictatorship worthy of the Turkish system, where several thousand judges have been imprisoned, I remind you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly the case that those who have shown themselves in recent years with a special shoe, I would say, arrogance, impunity in the field of sale of Polish national assets, often for priceless, in an atmosphere of gigantic scandals and scandals, and have indebted Poland and Poles for generations, today want to teach us about public finances. Those who have made it possible to rob finance, the revenue of the state budget, especially in the years 2007-2015, which has already been mentioned here, for the total amount of... There are various estimates, please, but these estimates refer to the amount of PLN 400 or even PLN 500 billion, not only because of VAT carousels, the smuggling of excise goods, not collection of gambling tax, tax optimization. They're giving us advice today on how to fight public debt, and they're complaining that we haven't paid that billion-dollar debt for a year and a half, and we haven't done it yet. It's kind of like having a grudge against us that we don't really know how to walk on water. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is the responsibility of the entire political elite of this 27th anniversary, with little exceptions. Undoubtedly it's not a sovereign, which is not a nation... Because I remind you that the sovereign is a nation, not a constitution, or even more so, as the professor and the judge claim, spiritual values and principles kept in this best caste, this unique caste. Well, with a sovereign, or nation, it is worth talking about this, because public debt is a matter for a generation that will not miss any rulers, I have already repeated this many times, no matter who rules. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this 2016 report on the implementation of the state budget in the area of public debt, guarantees, guarantees and State Treasury charges was a special year. Why? Because there have been an enormous number of variables and such very unknown situations in international markets, in foreign exchange and financial markets. Let me remind you that we had Brexit, we had a choice of the President of the United States, whom we hosted recently and who so greatly appreciated Poland, Poles, honour of Poland, heroism of Poles. This has affected the issue of very serious changes in the currency markets and the weakening of the Polish gold market, and this, of course, affects foreign debt, its size, the cost of handling this debt. The public debt amounted to over PLN 965 billion last year, ladies and gentlemen. It can be said that this is a giant sum, but with debt it is always so that if this debt is still meaningfully spent on something, if it is spent on development, on modern technologies, on investment, on science, it makes sense, but if this debt grows mainly because we have a deficit and we have to implement this deficit by making new commitments and debts, it is a dangerous situation, we know it, we know it, we realize it. But, ladies and gentlemen, today we're starting to pay off those 10-year-old bonds that were drawn by those who, eight years later, freely ruled and moved on this market, right? I'll remind you, in 2007, by handing over power... The previous power, Law and Justice in the coalition, left public debt at the level of PLN 534 billion. When she gave power to the PO-PSL team, which ruled for 8 years, this debt was already at the level of PLN 900 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I already have some signals that I have to go, so I just want to say this: it is difficult to say a few more important things in these few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the rise in this debt was due to a change in exchange rates, some swap operations. The expenditure on debt handling amounted to slightly over PLN 32 billion, but I will remind you that there were years for the previous coalition, when these expenses were at the level of 42 billion and no one particularly torn their garments. And one more point. The analysis of the implementation of the budget by NIK draws attention to a very important issue, namely the involvement of foreign investors in our treasury securities. These are huge amounts. This debt, you can say, is the total debt to foreign investors from treasury securities that is almost PLN 193 billion, so almost 33% the total value of this debt in the framework of the treasury securities. It's a lot. Of course, interest amounts to nearly several billion zlotys. We could say for a long, long time, and I believe, gentlemen, that such issues as the budget implementation of last year should be devoted to the night debates up to an hour. 1 a.m., not a political, violent assault. Yes, thank you very much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u61	Thank you, sir. I ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's not time to regret the roses when the woods are on fire. These words of the poet should in principle be the motto of our debate about last year's budget, because the damage you did to public finances in 2016 is nothing compared to what you did with the feeling of the Polish national community, with inter-human solidarity, with fundamental institutions for democracy. Telling Poles for many years that there was an assassination in Smolensk... [[Voices from the hall: We're talking about the budget.]] ...that President Lech Kaczyński was murdered, you dug such a ditch between Poles that we would bury him for decades. Today, here in the Polish Parliament, we should talk about this precisely because what you have done to Poland, what you have done to democracy for less than two years, has a huge impact on the economy, on the economy and on public finances. PiS gained power by lying because it had to lie or when it said that Poland, public finances and the economy are in ruins, or when two months later it announced to the world that the Polish economy and public finances are in excellent condition. When was the PiS lying? Was it when it said that the Civic Platform over-indebted Poland, or when the Minister of Finance from PiS wrote to the European Commission that the deficit in 2016, 2017, 2018 could be higher, because the previous government reduced this deficit significantly below the plan? When do you lie? Is it when you say it's enough not to steal, or when Prime Minister Szydło says that a new road tax is necessary to repair roads? It's hard to keep up with your lies, so I'll give you a few facts. The first fact is that every economy, including the Polish economy, is subject to cycles and that since 2015 we have been dealing with a very good economic economy. The second fact is that despite the good economic situation, the deficit in Poland in 2016 was high, almost twice as high as on average in the countries of the European Union, although you did not make any public investment and 9 billion PLN was allocated to co-financing these investments in the budget. The third fact is that public debt in 2016 increased by more than PLN 90 billion. Mr Szewczak has left, but let him share the increase in debt over our eight years and what you have done over the course of the year in a completely different macroeconomic environment. The fourth fact is that investments in 2016, all public and private, survived the collapse that the Polish economy does not remember. Prof. Rzońc pictured this, saying that the PiS for the Polish economy proved to be more devastating than the global crisis. [[Oh, the expert.]] The fifth fact is that from the noisy announcements of the extra billions that were to flow - here it seems that the words about 400 billion had just come out of this speaker - there was nothing left. In 2016, you did not even realize your planned VAT revenue. In December, the soap bubble burst. I don't have time to talk about sealing today. I'm sending it back to my speech yesterday. The unique dishonesty that you, Mr Sasin, commit every time - and Mr Szewczak - is to say that we have not sealed the tax system. I'll repeat one sentence. [[That effect - it's growing.]] Sealing, Mr President, this is a process, these are small steps that we have taken, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And you're using them, so you should keep your mouth shut about it. You don't understand. What can I do for you, Mr President? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[How did you seal it, how it grows all the time?]] But don't get so excited. Truth in the eyes of the circle. I get it. The sixth fact has already come to its hashtag: all taxes of the PiS. They were exchanged, so I will exchange them very quickly: bank tax, commercial tax - it was a masterpiece, they did not impose on large-scale shops, but out of the pocket of the Polish taxpayer took out, really congratulations - the water charge, the power charge is already in the Sejm, road tax - for a moment you withdrew, the recycling fee is waiting in queue, the levy on national media, which is a symbol of your primitive propaganda, on the pages of the RCL there is already a tax on the value of commercial galleries and office buildings - it is not known only whether it is another edition of the commercial tax, or perhaps a first step to the cadastral tax - the excise on e-cigarette liquids, the freezing of the tax scale, not raising the amount of free to 8 thousand. PLN, taking the amount free to several hundred thousand taxpayers and finally increasing VAT by 1 percentage point. [[It's all yours.]] You took 6 billion zlotys out of the pocket to give them away unfairly, hurting single mothers. What's the conclusion? In order to raise PLN 24 billion for 500+, you have put on or put on a fee of PLN 25 billion this year. And remember, it doesn't matter to Kowalski whether you call something a tax or a toll. It's gonna get out of your wallet. It hurts the same way. Let me repeat: there was no money for 500+. You've made a lot of money to finance this, and now you're charging taxes to pay that debt. Your finance minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, told you this. [[But for the first child, you want to give 500+.]] The seventh fact, Mr President, is that everything costs as much as it does for Gierek. This is always the case when power buys people and increases expenditure disproportionately to income, in addition to economic prosperity. This is always the case when, by adding twenty billion to the market, demand increases, but without any connection to work, with productivity. It's always like this when power raises taxes. These are the book reasons for inflation. The shopping basket, i.e. 50 products of first need, used 4% and some of these products, like butter, 30%. Soon inflation will devour everything the families have received in the 500+ program, and the sovereign will send you back to the place where he sent the team back from the PRL. What you do in the field of Polish public finances, one of the economists described well. He said that you are like a grasshopper from the fairy tale of La Fontaine, which in the summer is very cheerful, but at the same time lazy. He doesn't wrestle, jumps and smiles. Everyone loves him because he even gives away what he doesn't have. Worse when winter comes. Then the grasshopper gets pretty bad, and even worse are those who believe the grasshopper that it's always gonna be summer. When we said there was no money for 500+, for early retirement, for the conversion of franc credits, as confirmed by the NBP president, a high amount of free money, that this is a dangerous road, you didn't listen. It is fatal that your complacency continues to this day. When Prime Minister Szydło says that the money was supposed to be gone and yet it is, it means that you are ignoring the basic economic knowledge. Such disregard must unfortunately translate into a terrible state of public finances. Maybe not tonight, maybe not even this year, maybe not even in two or three years. You don't understand that this Greek scenario we warned you about doesn't materialize within a year. He may not even materialize in five years. He usually materializes when summer ends. Just when winter comes. We don't know when the grasshopper's summer will end, but we know for sure that winter always comes after the summer. And it will be very painful for all Poles, because then you will no longer be in charge if the finance minister does not understand that his duty during the economic economy is to make buffers, make rescue wheels that can be thrown to the poorest Poles and the economy at a time when this economic situation ends. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u63	Thank you very much, Member. I have to admit, you've intrigued me very much with this story about the grasshopper. I'm gonna brag to you about my daughters having a hamster. He's hoarding, so that not everyone gives away. And there are those who hoard. I believe that will be the case with this government. [[Start hoarding the hamsters of the Marshal's daughter.]] Please, Mr Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was to start a presentation of the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the information on guarantees and guarantees given in 2016 by the State Treasury, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, but I cannot ignore the revelations just heard. In this regard, it must be admitted that the makeshift is the most durable. Madam President, before me, she raised the question of the VAT increase by 1%, which is not true at this point, because this is the VAT increase that has been maintained. The increase in VAT was a temporary increase in VAT, which ran throughout the rule of one party, we continue this increase in the other party, so the makeshift is the most durable. Easiest when it's 1%. Nothing, but there's always something in the budget. At this point, you have to admit that 1% is very attractive to one party or another. The second issue concerns some of the benefits that have been thrown out to society. I'm not going to say how the previous power throws benefits, for example. miners who didn't have payouts at some point were forced mining leave. At this point, however, please note that it did not look so beautiful. I'm not on either side, I'm just trying to take it objectively. It is not enough that the Member knows very well that you have organized paragonal lotteries. It also gives a picture of the situation at the time. And now I'm going to turn myself in to present the position of the club I came here about. The report is an analysis of the statement of claims for guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for investments. In the view of Kukiz15, recovery measures must be implemented so that the return to the state budget, the amounts of claims, does not increase the deficit. In general, we need to keep an eye on the money right now. It was found that in 2016 the State Treasury did not spend funds to repay guaranteed and guaranteed liabilities. The functioning of guarantees and guarantees granted in 2016 by the State Treasury is a kind of opportunism, a safe port. In the future, when the European Union's resources for domestic investments are limited, the guarantee and guarantee system is expected to work more strongly by spending more money. At this point, it is necessary to agree with the request for information on the guarantees and guarantees presented by the President of the Council of Ministers that the control of the rise in commitments for guarantees and guarantees is of particular importance for the security of public finances. And here we stand in the position that reliable entities, Polish entities, entities investing in the Polish market should be supported, except that those that will also be effective and active in the European market, having liquid assets in the country, and those that present real business ventures with innovative technology. And now we have to pay attention to one thing. Here, with the help of the Ministry of Development, in full cooperation with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the established Polish Investment and Trade Agency, it is necessary to create conditions for investments to be supported by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in amounts from PLN 10 Not much, however, we still have to pay attention. to such a thing that expert assistance widely understood at this point in the coalition, which I have already mentioned, of the Ministry of Development, BGK and PAIiH, should be allocated to this entrepreneur so that business projects are supported more smoothly and quickly so that these funds reach him, and this will be addressed repeatedly, for the benefit of entrepreneurs, and for the strength of things, for the citizens, and for the Polish state. At this point, however, it should be noted that BGK is, of course, doing its job, but it is still necessary to support these activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u65	Thank you. As corrected, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. You're welcome, my fellow Member. I was joking with that hamster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. The Member did not understand my words about sealing the tax system. However, indeed, Mr President, I forgot to mention the lottery receipt, a project that I co-authored and which I am very proud of. Let us remind you that this project received two international awards and made the awareness of Poles about taxes significantly increased. On the other hand, I did not really understand what Mr Sitarski... [[That's not what we're talking about.]] ...he meant by hanging a strange voice. I just wanted to let you know that if you wanted to accuse me of dishonesty, I am directing it to the ethics committee. And I want to tell you that councilman PiS, who dared to accuse me of dishonesty, will have a court case on 28 September at the District Court in Częstochowa. And I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[How does that fit in? What's going on here?]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome, half a second.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u68	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if there was an audit at the Ministry of Finance, whether there was an audit of the lottery receipt and if you have full knowledge...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u69	Member, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u70	...on this subject, or the receipt lottery... [[That's private business. What does that have to do with anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u71	Thank you kindly, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u72	...was a good and honest project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u73	Thank you kindly already, Member. Please leave the podium. Mr Sitarski, mentioned by name, also in the correction procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! So, as a corrigendum, actually, the receipt lottery was an outstanding achievement. However, it is important to consider who was the recipient of the main prize. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u75	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For decades, millions of Poles repeated the truth mocked by the elites of the Third Republic. This truth, often repeated by simple but also life wise and honest people, was: it would be enough for Poland not to be stolen and for all to live better. Such words were spoken with contempt. The current government, including the Minister of Finance, showed that simple people were right, not self-proclaimed authorities. The government prime minister Beata Szydło proved that Ww. the opinion was justified. He proved that it was enough not to steal enough for everything that should always be enough. But it was also enough for the first real pro-family policy, for the program of the Family of 500+, to raise the standard of living of almost all Polish citizens, to increase the level of security of Poland by funding the Polish Armed Forces. And all this with the failure to properly increase the budget deficit, and even with the stopping of Poland's debt. The implementation of the budget is an event of great, truly historic breakthrough. Previous budgets were powered by proceeds from the sale of further components of Polish national assets. Sell everything and less about the price from Poland - this was the real essence of the policy of the predecessors of the present government. This anti-Polish policy will sell everything Polish, including Polish Cable Railways, Polish Recordings, Polish banks, Polish trade, Polish energy companies. [[Applause]] A long time could be exchanged. This financial policy of selling everything Polish has finally been stopped. It was the current government which led to the fact that Poland not only ceased to be sold in pieces, but also that Poland began to regain Polish property. Our position towards budget implementation is clearly positive. This is the first time we've been dealing with budget implementation since time immemorial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which means building Poland, not selling it out. And we fully support this policy. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of the report on implementation of the State budget for 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u77	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Maria Zuba, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Madame, the lottery lottery, but the tax arrears looked like this in your day and so they grew. And as for happiness, happiness favors a better one. So you have to keep that in mind, too. When the crisis in Polish families increased for almost a decade, unemployment was growing, youth migration was behind work, and thus - Poland was depopulation and poverty was growing in Poland. [[In your time, in the years 2005-2007, most people left.]] Then, 3 years ago, we wrote down in our party's programme Law and Justice that we would prepare a multi-annual programme of family policy, a national strategy for family action. Family policy can't just be the answer to solving current problems. Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the exposé stressed that a comprehensive and systemic pro-family policy is our priority and a strong family is a strong nation. Today we evaluate the effects of the first year, i.e. 2016, the rule of law and justice. I would like to remind you that the state budget for 2016 was prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. To this budget our formation Law and Justice due to statutory deadlines could only make adjustments. They were necessary to be able to carry out key tasks arising, among others. from the social programme announced during the campaign. The government of law and justice keeps its word. This is the first government to implement the commitments made to society in the election campaign. The government's economic, economic and social effects are confirmed after a year. Unlike the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the government turned its back on the Polish family, the government of Law and Justice restored normality and incorporated Polish families into the distribution of the gross domestic product developed by Poles. Last 2016 we spent over PLN 34 billion on social policy. As compared to 2015, expenditure in this area increased by 133%. Today, our country ranks 4th in the 28 countries of the European Union in terms of family support. For the Government of Law and Justice, investment in the family is the best investment in the future of our nation. 4 months after the declaration was made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the government introduced the 500+ family programme. Contrary to the critical views of opposition politicians that the programme is unrealistic, I would like to inform the honourable opposition that we are implementing this programme and that we will implement it. The opposition says it's a waste of money. No, you're wrong. In 2016, more than PLN 17.5 billion went to Polish families, thanks to which poverty decreased by 50% and extreme poverty among children by 94%, i.e. practically ceased to exist. This is a great humanitarian achievement and it is unacceptable that you could allow this to happen so many children in Poland live in poverty. So many kids. How could you let that happen? [[You're full of shit.]] Nearly 4 million children, including 2/3 children in the countryside, benefited from the programme. This program is the biggest investment of the Polish state in rural families. Thanks to the programme, it decreased by 12%. the number of people benefiting from state-paid nutrition has decreased the number of applications for family allowances. In the view of the government, the decision to have children should not put parents before their choice: either children or work. More childcare facilities must be created up to the age of 3. In 2016, almost PLN 140 million was spent on nursery, children's clubs and daily carers. In 2018 PLN 0.5 billion will be spent for this purpose. The changes in social policy introduced by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are not only noticed by Poles. They are also appreciated by the European institutions, as demonstrated by the award of the European Confederation of Large Families to the Government. In 2016, the cost of living of social services homes increased by 13%. expenditure on support centres for people with mental disorders and more than 11% on the organisation and provision of specialised care services by municipalities in the place of residence for persons with mental disorders has increased. Our formation believes that families and mentally ill people cannot remain alone, that the state should take care of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Krystyna Skowronska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u80	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If Mrs Zuba had spoken when she ruled the Freedom Union, she would have praised the Freedom Union as the Vice-Vote of Świętokrzyskie, and today you condemn what happened earlier. If it hadn't been for the strong foundations of the crisis... [[For eight years.]] ...for 8 years she prepared the Civic Platform, it would not be a success, because it left, I will remind you, the payment of the profit of the National Bank of Poland, PLN 8 billion, and transferred PLN 9.5 billion from LTE emissions. So, to begin with, 20 billion were paid, the best economic growth among the European Union's countries during the crisis was the foundation. Did you use it? No, I'm afraid not. The biggest increase in public debt, 88 billion, the largest since 2002, and therefore the success of the state - an increase in debt. What's your success? Use of resources... [[But not as big as yours.]] ... The European Union is the lowest possible and stopping investment. What's causing this? That's what makes life on credit. [[Not so much success.]] Of course. Whoever borrows credit can party can live like this, but someday this credit will have to be paid back. Once again, I would like to remind you - the lowest growth in investment, the lowest growth in road investments, and I would like to compare life on credit. You can - you can, but if you came to the bank with this, no one would give this credit because you need credit. You can still do various tricks - in the Constitution, increase the possibility of debt, but of course. Maybe that's the next step. With this budget, which in general can, with regard to numbers, seems, looks good, there are problems - local roads, a week ago taxing, petrol+. Unfortunately, you don't build these roads. New road investments are the least, because in 2016 only 124 km of new roads. There are no new calls or projects, we are seeing the lack of European funds. What are the threats the NBP president was talking about? Among other things, unfulfilled electoral promises, which may result in a budget, regardless of what solutions would be adopted. So-called. outstanding loans, foreign exchange loans - unsolved problem. Unfortunately, you do not build apartments for young people, because this is also needed for young people. Our project, an increase of 800 million expenditure for 2016, the state rejected, and the money ended with the beginning of 2016. Repetition, 2017 same. You don't build apartments, you promise, and you stick a shovel in when there's no project yet, there's no plan, there's just a contract. Somehow it's very strange. Life on credit is a bill for the future, and the state is billing for the future, but you're making it pay for the young generations. And then the young ones turned their backs on you because most of them emigrated, 2.5 Millions of Poles, during the PiS government of 2005-2007. No programme, only well-prepared ones allowed you to implement this budget. Threats remain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u81	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Mr. President of NBP! Mr. President of the NBP spoke about foreign currency housing loans, about statutory translation, and I have a question for you, President of the NBP and the Ministry of Finance. In fact, it comes out of all of this, it's 700,000. families who have taken the so-called. housing currency loans, caused Poland to flow into francs, because I will no longer talk about the euro or the dollar. And I have a question. How many francs and how many movements were recorded on the foreign exchange market during the 2005-2010 period? How many francs have been paid into citizens' pockets as part of the currency housing loans you were talking about? No gold, ladies and gentlemen, because the franc that the citizens got was Władysław Jagiełło, I'll just remind you. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And this Jagiello is a threat to financial stability for your NBP president. So I ask how to convert the Jagiellonian franc into gold and how it will cause a financial threat to the state budget. Because the President of NBP is the President of the National Bank of Poland and he is concerned about the financial stability of commercial banks which have messed up, messed up in Poland and caused 700,000. Polish families have problems today. I ask why the President of the National Bank of Poland is concerned about private banks, because there is a question of how much money has come up so far, for 10 years, to the banks of mothers abroad. Does the Ministry of Finance know what the declines in GDP are in the state budget? These are the doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have a question: Is the state theoretical or practical? For citizens or corporations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u83	Thank you. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2016 report on the implementation of the state health budget contains data to hope that there has been an improvement in meeting the health needs of Poles. In 2016, the government allocated as much as 20% more from the state's health budget than in 2015, i.e. more by PLN 940 million. The expenditure of the Minister of Health amounted to PLN 5.6 billion. We are very pleased with this data because health policy in recent years has been characterised by underfunding, especially basic health care and outpatient care, low spending on preventive care and long-term care, which is most affected by low income families, multi-child families, incomplete families, as well as retirement families. Therefore, the increase in budget expenditure on health care during the year by as much as 20%, i.e. by PLN 940 million, indicates that the current government is courageously taking action to solve the health problems we inherited from the predecessors. High Izbo! The increase was mainly due to the start of several new tasks: primarily the financing of free medicines for people after 75 years. and start the implementation of the National Health Programme, but also with the allocation of additional resources for health policy programmes, the purchase of preparations for compulsory preventive vaccination and the treatment of uninsured persons. As part of the financing of medicines for people after 75 years of age. funds of PLN 84 million were transferred to the National Health Fund. The list of free medicines for seniors was based on available data on medicines which were refunded from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2016 for patients in this age group. The first list of free medicines included 1129 preparations that included 68 active substances. The list lists medicines used to treat older people, mainly chronic diseases, e.g. in the case of heart disease, cardiovascular system, Parkinson's disease, osteoporosis, diabetes, asthma, depression and dementia. The second list of medicines refunded was extended by 20 preparations representing 87 equivalents of medicines on the list from 1 November 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 almost 2.4 million people benefited from the refund, i.e. PLN 84 million remained in the pockets of Poles, regardless of how you calculated these rates. Another important task financed by the state budget is the National Health Programme, which was established by the Council of Ministers Regulation on 4 August 2016. And there are the following objectives: improving the diet, nutrition and physical activity of the society, preventing mental health problems and improving the mental well-being of the society. It is known that social relations are changing and there is an increasing problem of mental illness, the reduction of health risks arising from physical, chemical, biological risks in the external environment, workplace, residence, recreation, science, the promotion of healthy and active ageing. Although relatively few funds were spent in 2016 due to the implementation of this programme only in the fourth quarter, since more than PLN 4 million in part 46, it should be stressed that these are very important tasks for health protection. It was also very important and significantly co-financed in 2016 to purchase preparations for the implementation of the preventive vaccination programme, which increased the plan by PLN 295 million during the year, which allowed for the full security of the programme, the renewal of safe storage conditions constituting a 3-month supply of vaccines and the purchase of vaccines in order to secure the vaccination schedule for the entire population of children born after 31 December 2016. Moreover, from the budget of the Minister of Health, the largest expenditure was incurred on grants for didactics and material assistance to medical institutions. In 2016, 65 thousand were educated in medical universities. students, in stationary studies - 56 thousand. persons. Medical universities completed 13.5 thousand in 2016. full-time students, 2,000. - non-stationary studies. The implementation of health policy programmes is another task and expenditure for this purpose from the state budget. And here are: the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, the Antiretroviral Treatment Programme for People with HIV in Poland and the National Programme for the Treatment of Haemophiliacs, etc. Further, the financing of high-specialist services to the extent that we had huge shortcomings. In total, 18 thousand were financed from the state budget. High-specialist benefits for the amount of PLN 446 million, for benefits for people not covered by the health insurance obligation - PLN 632 million, including PLN 312 million, were allocated to cover part of the liabilities for the years 2013 and 2014. Investment and multi-annual programmes have also been implemented. In 2016, six multi-annual investment programmes were implemented for which the amount of over PLN 352 million was spent. Here are some examples, i.e. Białystok, Medical University - reconstruction and extension of the clinical hospital, reconstruction and extension of the clinical hospital UM in Lublin, as well as the University Hospital Kraków-Prokocim, the Pediatric Hospital of the Warsaw Medical University in Warsaw, where over PLN 50 million were spent, the reconstruction of the University Children's Hospital in Krakow - once again in Krakow - PLN 23 million and the construction of the Centre for Non-Invasive Medicine of Gdańsk Medical University - PLN 45 million. High Izbo! This is the most important information and the most important tasks carried out by the Minister of Health last year in order to improve health and the associated very high quality of life of Poles. They point to the fact that the Ministry of Health has not only a vision, but also consistently and courageously undertake to implement the electoral programme of Law and Justice also in the field of health protection. No matter what cassandra visions the opposition presents, with what rage, with which hits here on this platform, regardless of the eruditional display, I would like to say here that in every area, but also in health care, the current government will be consistent. I hope that the past will go away when 25% Polish families, 1/4, could not benefit from specialist consultations for income reasons, that to the past situations would go away, that specialized consultations could not benefit several percent, even up to 17% Poles with families of many children, as well as with advice on specialists, on dental advice, here I am talking about families of many children. In this respect, we have taken a very ungrateful place, because the percentage which, for profit reasons, indicated that health services were not available in the European Union, was not 17%, but 49%. I hope that here consistent implementation, which we will very much respect, will cause that situation in Poland will not recur and there will be a clear improvement also in health protection, which I wish all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u85	Thank you. And Mr Czesław Mroczek, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state budget, the implementation of the state budget is not just the implementation of expenditure. In some cases, the execution of expenditure can be a major offence or even a criminal act, because the state budget is a tool for the implementation of specific tasks and these tasks must be carried out under such conditions as legality, purposefulness, reliability and economy. Against this background, it is worth looking at the implementation of expenditure in Part 29: National Defence. Here, on the one hand, we are dealing, as I am going to say more broadly, with the failure to carry out tasks, with the incurred expenditure and the failure to achieve material effects, but we are also dealing with obvious wastefulness, that is to say, infarct and mismanagement. Such an example can be the purchase of two-day projects, NATO summit in Warsaw, 37 limos: audi, bmw, cars that were needed only for this two-day project and which later came... e.g. Bartłomiej Misiewicz received such a car. He was also paid. From the money spent by the Polish taxpayer for national defence he received a remuneration of 12 thousand. gross zloty, higher than the salaries of all the Vice-ministers in this department. And speaking of those hamsters, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u87	One.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u88	...you were talking about, the one you have at home, those hamsters in the Treasury companies, such Misiewiczs, such hamsters, there were a lot of them. And hamsters, and cars, and wages. They're homicidal all the time. And that's the effect of your governments. [[Applause]] On the other hand, when it comes to a much more serious case, because these 37 limos are the amount of PLN 13 million spent on national defence money unnecessarily, now I want to tell you what the tangible effects have been achieved by spending billions of zlotys. The Armed Inspectorate, with a technical modernisation plan of PLN 7400 million, spent PLN 5200 million in the form of advances. 70% That's the plan he spent. So what if he spent it? There's no money, there's no equipment. There's no physical effect. And you are about to say - my colleague in the Committee on National Defence, Mr Soboń - there were also advances in your day. Yeah, they were. At 2 billion a year. And last year, these advances from the Armory Inspectorship plus the modernization fund are PLN 5200 million. Total outstanding advances at the end of 2016 is over PLN 9 billion. But there is one thing about the implementation of this budget, which will atone and be a symbol of your authority: dishonesty, dishonesty in public procurement. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, and now listen to me for a second if you don't know that. Because it's a terrible burden for you. You can never claim honesty in your actions until you explain what I'm about to say. Purchase for PLN 2.5 billion of three aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country, no helicopter for the army with military money, while five aircraft for the carriage of power, including three aircraft purchased in violation, gross violation of the law. This is the largest public contract in Poland, where there has been a gross violation of the law. The regional, not regional accounting chamber, only the Chamber established for the assessment of public contracts - the National Board of Appeal, the government body established for the assessment of public contracts, concluded that the contracting authority, the MON, had acted as part of the pre-emptive intention of ordering the contract to one contractor, although it knew that there were at least eight tenderers who could perform the task. This information was in the documentation he had on his own. The judgment of the National Board of Appeal confirmed the District Court in Warsaw. If you want to talk about honesty in public finances, explain this. This issue will burden you. Unfairness, wastefulness - that's what you spend on your budget. [[Applause]] [[What do you say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u89	Mr Artur Soboń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The dynamics of events in the vicinity of the security of Poland are now the largest since the collapse of the Soviet Union. We are seeing more and more rapid changes, not only political but also economic, social and cultural changes. Thus the global context of Poland's security describes the Strategic Defence Review - initiated by the head of the national defence department in July 2016 - closing the necessary stage of analysis and recommendations. Of course, in the past documents of a strategic nature were created, but they were based on a wrong or unrealistic assessment of the Polish safety environment. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where we have prepared a comprehensive and modern Strategic Defence Review defining the Polish security environment in the context of, among others. the aggressive policy of the Russian Federation, the unstable neighbourhood of eastern and southern NATO flanks and the threat of terrorism. Given the recommendations of the review, I can say with all determination today that the government's policy on national defence and state security in 2016 has increased Poland's security both on an ally and on a national level. Basic figures. In 2016 expenses were realized in part 29: National defence of PLN 35 304 million. Property expenditure in part 29 of the State budget was implemented in the amount of 9813 million, which represents 27.8% all expenditure carried out in this part of the budget. Together with non-extinguishable expenditure and national defence expenditure included in other parts of the State budget, the amount of defence expenditure implemented was 35 744 million, which represents exactly 2% of GDP for 2015. In 2016, Poland took part in 15 international missions of NATO, the European Union, the UN, in the coalition system, maintained military quotas, observers, participated in the global fight against the Islamic State, our ships were on the Aegean Seas, Mediterranean Sea, Black Sea, we took part in trainings, carried out 657 exercises in the national system, anakonda exercises, the largest, 28,000. Exercising soldiers, including 13,000. soldiers from Poland. 2016 is the year of technical modernisation in the Polish Armed Forces, based on the potential of the defence industry in Poland, supplementing the operational military component with the territorial defence army, NATO summit, the presence of American soldiers in Poland, cultivating the tradition and glory of Polish weapons, worshiping those whom the Polish state has for years forgotten about, i.e. the cursed soldiers, and finally the real professional development of soldiers. In part 42 in the field of home affairs, the expenditure of the state budget was planned for PLN 20 186 million and was realized in the amount of 98.8%. The plan. These funds were spent on salaries and increases in salaries for police officers, salaries in the fire department and fire department work. The year 2016 is in the field of internal security, the restoration of PO-PSL-decommissioned police stations, the law establishing the.Program of modernization of uniformed services by 2020, more than 9 billion PLN for modern equipment, infrastructure expansion and salary increases, it is a created map of threats, the tightness of Polish borders, the headquarters of the Frontex agency in Warsaw and foreign missions, responsible migration policy, effective anti-terrorism policy, increase of wages for police officers and reduction of pensions for esbeks, it is finally the safety of participants of the World Youth Day and record high resources for voluntary firefighters in the amount of 109 million PLN. I will refer to the votes that have been cast during this debate, ladies and gentlemen. It's a VIP plane case. If anyone today disputes the purchase of aircraft for the most important persons in the country, he himself bears witness to the responsibility for the security of the state. If you, Minister, are speaking to Minister Czesław Mrozek today about dishonesty, then I would remind you that when you announced a tender for helicopters, you ruled out two offers of defence industry in Poland as unselected, and that you considered the supplier's offer to import helicopters... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But she was a choice, Minister, just because you reduced the number of helicopters from 70 to 50 and increased the expenditure planned for this purpose in the budget. This is your honesty. [[But there was a bid.]] It's an advance case. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone wants to develop the defence industry in Poland, advance payments are an essential instrument. If anyone thinks that the defence industry in Poland needs to be closed, plowed, destroyed or given to the international EADS group, then I understand, but we do not go this way. Limo case - two days. It wasn't just two days, and you know it. This was the NATO summit in Warsaw and this was the most important of the Polish security arrangements for the Polish state. It was a 6,000-dollar decision. American soldiers in Poland, these were strategic from the point of view of the security of the Polish state decisions, but also the need to secure the basic infrastructure for this kind of event, which was realized by us. Unfortunately, I cannot say that this has been taken over from our predecessors to the extent that it would allow this summit to be organised. I can say with full responsibility today that both part 29 and part 42 of the state budget have been implemented in a responsible, correct way... [[Voice from the courtroom: But illegal.]] ...was also properly assessed by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Please read the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the county court?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u91	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Cichoń, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've heard a lot from your mouths about tax collection and improving the efficiency of the tax system. A little bit of a day for that. Firstly, tax arrears increased by more than 30 billion. This is an absolute record. Empty invoices, which, let me remind you, you defined as the scale of fraud, fraud and loss of the state budget. I will remind Minister Ziobra of this. 80 billion in 2015, so far were the findings, in 2016.104 billion. That's what you let me steal. A fraction of the percentage was paid to the state budget. A percentage fraction - that's embarrassing. As far as the VAT you are proud of is concerned, GDP is at the same level as in 2015.8.8%. But I would like us to look at this budget quickly through the prism of the Polish family, because it is the first year of your own governments. For this we have a year of unfulfilled electoral promises. We have 500+, but half, because it's supposed to be for every child and it's got no demographic effect. Bank tax, higher fees, lower interest rates, OC and other insurances - growth on an unlisted scale for many years. The higher PIT, the higher income tax on individuals despite the electoral promises, because you didn't touch the thresholds because you didn't touch the cost of obtaining, you tampered with the amount of free money, so that it affected many taxpayers. VAT - you promised to lower it. Still, despite our promises, we have increased VAT on clothes, and that was also your flagship promise. It's 23%. In addition, the higher energy prices, the transitional fee you introduced in 2016, the retirement rate, 1,4% growth, symbolic dimension, and also paid, even in spite of your electoral promises, drugs. No, practically, improvement in health care, in some areas significant deterioration. Here cardiology can be an excellent example. If we want to look at this budget from an economist's point of view, I can say that this is a budget of wasted opportunities. That's how the economists will remember this year 2016. Slowing down [[♪ The bell ♪]] from 3.8 to 2.7% , the collapse of investments, contrary to what we have heard here, is really due to the inability of your governments, management institutions and paralysis that you have caused, among others. in local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There was a hailing.]] And the hailing, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u93	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try without emotion, quickly present the implementation of the budget in the field of education and education, educational care and implementation of the budget of the Ministry of National Education in section 30: Education and education, which is presented as follows. The planned expenditure from the State budget for 2016 amounted to 45 740 214 000. PLN, including: Education and upbringing 3 760 161 thousand, in the section: Educational education 483 101 thousand. PLN, while in the heading: Different settlements in the educational part of the general subsidy amount 41 496 952 thousand. zł for educational subsidy. The planned expenditure was realized in 89.8%. Compared to the previous year, expenditure from the state budget and European funds for education and education and educational care increased by 2%, i.e. 908 166,000. PLN, and closed 45 885 541 thousand. zł. Of which 90.5% constitutes the educational part of the general subsidy of 41 496 901 thousand. zł, which Mr Jacek Sasin has already mentioned. The remaining expenditure from the state budget and from the budgets of European funds amounts to 4 388 640 000. zł. The educational and educational care of the local government unit spent 22 305 208 thousand. zł, which represents 32.7% Total expenditure for this purpose in 2016 and closed at 68 190 749 000. zł. This amount is higher by 1,523 623 thousand. zł, i.e. by 2,3%, from the amount spent in 2015 In 2016, education, education and educational care objectives were pursued on the basis of strategic documents and current government policies. The main objectives are set out in the documents: "Basic guidelines for implementing the State's education policy in the 2015/2016 school year' and in the same document for 2016/2017. Allow me to mention the main objectives of these documents for the 2016/2017 school year. These include: dissemination of reading, development of reading competences among children and young people, development of IT competences of children and young people in schools and institutions, shaping attitudes, education to value, improving the quality of vocational training in upper secondary schools by involving employers in the process of adapting vocational training to the needs of the labour market, preparation for the implementation of the new programme basis from the 2017/2018 school year. In addition, volunteering was a priority identified by the Minister of National Education in the school year 2016/2017. The tasks identified for the 2015/2016 school year were also continued in the framework of an open school, implementing interdisciplinary education, open interdisciplinary education, among others. for new teaching and thinking courses and cooperation. During the discussion on the implementation of the 2016 budget for education, education and educational care in the Committee on Public Finances, the most emotional changes in the school network, and in particular the fact that in 2016 the total number of schools decreased by 91 to a total number in the 2016/2017 school year. 28 279. The changes in the school network involved the transformation of schools, the creation of branch schools and school teams, the inclusion and exclusion of teams, the dissolution of teams and their decommissioning. These changes are mainly due to demography, because birth growth occurred only last year, after the implementation of the programme, the family 500+ and its effects will be visible in a few years' time. 2016 is the year of work on preparing the reform of the education system, including work on a comprehensive change of the basics of general education for the various stages of education. The work was completed by laws which were adopted on 14 December. 2016 is also a return to school duty for 7 years instead of for 6 years. In 2016, there was an increase in average salaries in schools and institutions run by government administrations by 1.7%. Expenditure on personal salaries in schools and institutions run by local government units, according to reports, accounts for 56% current expenditure incurred by local authorities. The report on the implementation of the State budget and information on the implementation of the basic tasks of education and education, educational care and the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of National Education in Part 30: Education and education present and describe in detail the implementation of the planned 2016 tasks and amounts for them compared to the plan and implementation 2015. There's no way to describe it in such a short time. The Supreme Audit Chamber has welcomed the implementation of the budget in this respect. The Committee on Public Finance did not comment. The 2016 budget in this respect has been implemented in the best way possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The implementation of the state budget for 2016, including agriculture, European funds, the environment, as Jacek Sasin, chairman of the committee said, was positively assessed. European measures in 2016, as in 2015, were not fully implemented. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development achieved very good results in this area, where the planned measures were implemented. We congratulate Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel and his subordinates. Nearly PLN 10 billion was paid in advance for direct payments for 2016. These advances were paid for over 1.3 million Polish farmers. The reasons for the under-implementation of European funds in some parts of the budget are due to the poorly prepared financial perspective for the years 2014 to 2020: the blockages in regulations and strategies, the errors in the functioning of the voivodship environmental and water management funds, the poorly prepared tenders and the making of bad choices in the years 2014 to 2015. This has given rise to the fact that it is still ricocheting on the use of European funds in 2016, especially in the first half of that year, because the second half of the year, especially the fourth quarter, is already a full start in this area. In 2016, we started a thorough reconstruction of the state, ways of thinking and action towards a strong use of European funds towards the economic development of the country. In 2016, we began to change fatal assessments of environmental phenomena that led to tragic effects in Polish nature. An example of this is the Białowieża Forest, in which its active protection was neglected. [[Thank you, Minister Szyszka.]] Only in 2016 was the active, active protection of the Białowieża Forest during the visit of the environmental committee... [[It's devastating.]] ...with which there's a good chance that we'll save this forest. It's gonna take a long time, but we're gonna save it. In 2016, we started to remove blockades preventing the full use of European funds and more effectively allocating funds to protect the environment than has been the case so far. One good example is the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management as opposed to the same voivodship funds, where they are simply managed by the voivodship włodarzne, you can say. In 2016, the highest amounts were allocated to climate and atmosphere protection, water protection and water management. Since I have to stop, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u97	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Murdzk, please take the floor. [[You don't start, you'll thank Jarosław Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was good for the National Bank of Poland, and next year it will be even better. Active management has made the financial result more than 9 billion, of which 3.3 billion is the way in which the reserves are managed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] foreign exchange - a very good example of good governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u99	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Józef Lassot is the first question to be asked. One and a half minutes to the question. There's no envoy. This is Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. [[Two minutes.]] 1.5. [[One-and-a-half, Mr. Marshal? Thank you.]] [[No.]] We're centrifugated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The monetary equivalent for the coal debt paid to pensioners is one budgetary commitment from the State. It is received from the budget by employees, former employees of the Mining Restructuring Company, it is also received by former employees of mining companies and persons entitled to do so. I would like to ask how much this equivalent has been achieved, and I would like to remind you that the government has still failed to fulfil its obligations today, because it does not pay this equivalent to miners who have worked hard to their last days, to retirement in the mine. One more question within this coal equivalent. It is also received by former employees of Polish railways. I wanted to ask how many people made use of this monetary equivalent last year and how much money was allocated to this purpose in the state budget. Dear Minister, PLN 8 billion in the Law on the Functioning of Mining PiS has allocated to the decommissioning of mines, as well as the decommissioning of jobs in mining. I would like to know how much money was spent in relation to the planned funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u101	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! An important link in public finances is the self-government sector, often underestimated by the current government. Meanwhile, the local government sector in 2016 contributed significantly to the reduction of the public finances budget deficit. When the government deficit amounted to PLN 55 billion, i.e. 3.1% GDP, thanks to the surplus reached by local governments of 7.6 billion, the overall result of public finances was 2.5% GDP. Almost 80% municipalities and 70% cities on the rights of the county reached a budget surplus in 2016 - these are facts. At the same time, the debt of local government units decreased by 4% compared to 2015, contrary to the opinion on local government debt. Why does the government underestimate the enormous work of local governments? Why is he taking away their powers? Why is it making it difficult for them to function, for example the Regional Audit Chambers Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u103	Thank you. Mr Killion Munyama. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u104	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! In 2016, under the economic conditions in the world, under Brexit's conditions within the European Union, what is the need to have the ability to reduce investment compared to 2015? It is well known that Brexit is looking for other countries to invest, and Poland, being one of the largest countries in Europe, in the European Union, should attract those investors who will no longer want to invest in the UK. What factors in 2016 had a decisive impact on the decline in these investments in Poland? Is raising the standard of living, better social situation or greater public security, so desirable by society, the result of only economic factors? Why Poland fell from the top ten countries with the lowest debt in 2016, for the first time since its entry into the European Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] public in the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u105	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! 2016 is the year of the missed opportunity. Although Prime Minister Szydło has announced the programme "For Life," it is the 20 million we have allocated in the 2016 budget. - and it was a miracle, because it was the only amendment of the opposition which was supported by the majority of the parliament - it was not used for the needs of hospice patients in the Łódź voivodship. You said there wasn't enough material law to use that money. The Civic Platform has prepared an amendment to the Act on Medical Activity, we have prepared solutions, and you have rejected these solutions at committee level and then frozen them. You didn't have the courage to reject this law in plenary. 20 million is a fortune, given the suffering of hospice patients, those who suffer, waiting for a worthy death. And the question to the Minister is, what am I supposed to tell these hospice patients? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u107	Thank you. Mr Marian Zembala. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2016 is also a year of shame from the point of view of human rights protection. This is the first year when the government and parliamentary majority lowered the Ombudsman's budget. [[And we're gonna bring it down again.]] The Ombudsman is the institution, the constitutional body that guards, upholds human rights and civil rights. The reduction of the Ombudsman's budget by 3 million compared to 2015 and the reduction of 7 million compared to the proposed project also had consequences in the number of visits to social assistance homes where older people are staying, whose rights are often violated. A smaller number of visits to places like prisons are also the possibility of violating civil rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Seniors were not the priority of 2016. Let me just remind you that the noisyly announced free medications are PLN 6.90 per person over 75 years of age per month. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u109	Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u110	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question will concern the multi-annual programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure. It's a multi-annual programme for the years 2016-2019. The budget for the next 4 years was PLN 4 billion, but it was adopted in the 2016 budget, unfortunately not 1 billion, but 800 million, to save this 200 million. But what is characteristic, apart from this pre-planned savings on investments did not use these funds, 17 million PLN was not used. We know from the implementation of this programme that there is a great deal of interest, that usually willing local governments are twice the resources available to the voivod and still 17 million have not been used. I believe that the Minister of Finance has not shown sufficient care or flexibility in the use of these funds. My question is: Why? Why wasn't it used? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u111	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Baszko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Mr. President! My question concerns the "Senior - Wigor" programme. It is a multi-annual programme which was introduced by the previous government by Minister Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. In 2016, 10 729 thousand were spent. zł, which gives us 67.9% implementation in relation to the entire annual budget. Why is the execution so low and why is the name changed to "Senior+"? Why is it that the government does not encourage associations or institutions to make better use of their funds, which would increase participation in the agenda of older people and improve the lives of older people and their families?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! I'll be monothematic and boring, but 500,000. families who still have so-called. currency pseudocredits in the pseudo-franchise, in euros, dollars, and really in zlotys, demands a lot of important answers. And the questions and the Ministry of Finance, and the NBP. First: Do you know what amounts in 2016 came from banks in Poland to central banks abroad? That's my first question. Second: What are the security amounts of each bank that have provided so-called security for the day? Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Personally, I don't think there's any collateral, there's no currency, there's no gold, maybe there's bonds. Here I'd like to ask you to lighten this up and explain to me what it looks like, because I understand that someone who borrows has collateral. The question is, do they really have that kind of protection? Another thing: Did you check what was the loss of Polish GDP in 2016 due to these loans and so-called. Social problems? What does this have to do with the state budget? That's what I'm interested in. And one last question, to your NBP president: What algorithm do you want to use to convert the gold into gold? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u115	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what about the promises to reduce VAT and, above all, to reduce VAT for children's clothing. This is one of the flagship promises of Law and Justice. You can't see it in the last year's budget. But we have an increase in tax arrears by more than PLN 30 billion, which is quite a record level. Except that implementation of the budget is not only a tax issue, but also a question of assessing legality and integrity, as well as the cost-effectiveness of spending funds. And here we also have a number of examples of quite shocking mismanagement, such as the purchase of 37 limos for the amount of over PLN 13 million in connection with the NATO summit or for example. purchase of three aircraft. We have here an amount of PLN 2.5 billion and we already have a ruling from the Board of Appeal, which stated that MON favored one contractor there, and the National Board of Appeal also challenged the procedure of the decision, the procedure of free hand in this proceeding. Will this type of action be a standard in the implementation of budgetary tasks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u117	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question from the education area. Mostly I'm talking about improving teachers. To be an effective teacher, you need to constantly update your knowledge. Teachers are the professional group that needs to learn, they know it, they do it. They also want to have training at a very high level. And it is education that universities, self-government centres and non-public centres run. I wanted to ask: What money, what financial resources were allocated in 2016 to improve teachers, and what priorities were adopted in the spending of these funds? I'm still interested in teachers abroad. Was there any money spent on improving Polish teachers abroad? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u119	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a brief question about health care, specifically health contributions. Two important indicators translate into a health contribution. This is the unemployment rate and it was 9.3 at the end of 2015 and 8.3 at the end of 2016. In addition, the average monthly salary is an important indicator and progress has been made here in 2016 for 2015. For this reason, I have this question: What increased revenue was made to the state budget for the health contribution, what was the amount and how much was it sent to the National Health Fund? I mean, of course, taking year-to-year, i.e. if the funds were increased by the National Health Fund budget in 2016 for 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u121	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one brief question. To what extent does Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in cooperation with the Ministry of Development intend to increase the financing of projects submitted by Polish companies, native? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u123	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were charges of overeating, of borrowing the state. So I have a question for you. One of the components of the debt is the operation of the so-called. a flexible credit line in the International Monetary Fund, where, as everyone knows, not for borrowing, but because of its willingness to provide this credit, it is necessary to bear high operating costs. Whether it is true, that in 2009, under the government of the predecessors, the costs of handling a flexible credit line only in 1 year amounted to PLN 182 million and systematically increased to PLN 363 million in 2013, i.e. so many of us, taxpayers, all Poles cost the service of the so-called. A flexible credit line? And is it true that today, this year, in 2016 the cost of handling a flexible credit line is only 69 million PLN? So whether it is possible to conclude from this that the current government is looking for all possible savings so as not to burden Polish taxpayers, the Polish society, for example, through the fact that - maybe despite less of its own comfort, less of its own sense of security - it has reduced the amount of this flexible credit line, it has decreased, so we pay only 69 million PLN instead of 363 [[♪ The bell ♪]] A million zlotys? Thank you. I had another question, but thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u125	Thank you. Mr Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about expenses under the general reserve. The general reserve for 2016 was planned in a fairly high amount, because almost PLN 170 million. In previous years, probably with the exception of one year, this reserve was usually half as low. The general reserve is intended primarily for unforeseen expenses, for random events. There were no such random events fortunately in 2016, but this reserve was made in 95% and at least, according to my observations, a significant proportion of these funds were spent simply by Members of Parliament on local expenditure, on regional expenditure, of course through the Council of Ministers, through the Minister of Finance. Perhaps some of these expenses were very needed, but I have doubts as to whether the general reserve should serve such purposes. I have a specific question, Minister. I would like to know what funds were spent on under the general reserve by the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. It was almost PLN 5 million. I know it's a question. Pretty detailed, and I'd like a written reply. What was the amount spent on? How was it spent? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u127	Mr Jacek Sasin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this Chamber, the opposition politicians and, above all, Mrs Leszczyna, false statements, e.g. such a statement that the 500+ programme in 2016 was financed by the government budget deficit... [[It was Morawiecki who spoke.]] ...that there was no money for this program and no money. I would like to ask the Minister, who represents the Ministry of Finance - actually to ask rhetorically, because I know these numbers - is it true that this deficit, which was planned by the government by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in the draft budget which the Council of Ministers adopted on 29 September 2015, was planned at PLN 54,6 billion, and without the 500+ programme, because such expenditure in this project was not? The budget, which was submitted to the Sejm and adopted by the Sejm, including the government's already revised Prime Minister Beata Szydło, has set the deficit at PLN 54,7 billion, which is a little higher, but it already includes the 17 billion PLN. So where's the deficit funding here? The notabene performance was even lower because it was 46.2. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like it to sound like Mrs Leszczyn and other opposition politicians would finally stop lying and accept the truth that it was not financed from the deficit, but we just found the money. In the future, there will also be money for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u129	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u130	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question about the Polish Space Agency. The Polish Space Agency is supervised directly by the President of the Council of Ministers. The financial plan shall consist of an entity grant. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 5 July, I asked about the agency's economic activities and financial results, because the Supreme Audit Chamber has shown a number of reservations about the agency's activities and a number of irregularities. It goes on, among other things. about the fact that the Public Procurement Act was being violated in the course of purchases, there was confusion about employment, recruitment of employees, conclusion of contracts. I have a question because I was personally involved in the establishment of this agency. There were noisy announcements of the benefits of the agency for the economy, defence, state security, science and entrepreneurs. I would like to know from ministers: What tangible benefits did the Polish Space Agency bring? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u131	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you listen to the government's statements, every time you see success. Success, success, success - the propaganda of success is known to us. [[Voice from the room: All success. I'm glad you appreciate it.]] But at the same time, there are some doubts if you go into some specific issues. And so on. According to information from the Supreme Audit Chamber, Poland is 27th in Europe when it comes to innovation. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] I don't know if it's about attachment to 27 and 27:1, right - in any case, it's 27th place. This is very disturbing. Prime Minister Morawiecki tells us all the time about the bright future, about the strategy for responsible development, about the fact that we will drive cars It's just electric, and the army's probably gonna be flying drones, 'cause we're not buying helicopters. I would like to ask, has this issue - precisely this position, as far as innovation is concerned - been analysed in some way? Where are the causes? What action will be taken to change this situation? Because the state-making of companies alone will not result in this, it will be the opposite, which can be seen, of course, after the decline in investment in the last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u133	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year brought surprisingly low growth in gross domestic product, because only 2,7%. Compared to 2015 it was a decrease of 1.1, so that means that the Polish economy did not grow, decreased, this increase was less 20 billion compared to 2015. We are at the peak of the economic economy, we could expect after what Poland's GDP growth was like between 1997 and 2007, i.e. in this 10-year cycle, it oscillated around 7%. Last year, we could have expected to exceed a very clear 4% Maybe we'll get close to 5%. Let me remind you that at the moment the economies of the Baltic countries exceed 5% They're approaching 6. In the Czech Republic it is planned for this year, e.g. 5.3. That means we've suffered very clear losses. I'd like to know the Minister of Finance's diagnosis. What mistakes did Poland make in politics, macroeconomic policy, maybe also at budgetary level, that this result was so modest? It is worth recalling that in GDP the state budget is between a dozen and 20%, so every percentage of unrealised GDP, in fact this lack of GDP growth, amounts to 4 billion in the budget less. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u135	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] And in what way, my fellow Member? [[In corrigendum mode. Mr Sasin accused me of lying. He didn't understand my speech.]] [[It's hard to understand you.]] Oh, Jesus, I haven't heard of a lie, Member. Please, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Sasin, remember, first of all, I never lie. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Secondly, determine with the finance minister whether 500+ was financed by debt or not, because Minister Morawiecki said, quote: in his own group we can say openly - for 500+ money there is no money, we finance it from debt. [[That's what Rostowski said.]] Find out with Prime Minister Morawiecki. Finally, the thing that a student of the first year of economics knows. Mr Sasin, one-off income such as LTE and the NBP's profit, multi-annual expenditure, cannot be financed. You have to understand that someday. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, now I haven't been understood.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u137	Sir, please... [[But briefly, really.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! But I have to explain to you, Minister, because I don't think I've been properly understood either, and I have to correct it. As Minister of Finance in the Civic Platform Government, she does not know the numbers, as it turns out. Maybe that's what the standards were during your reign. You planned a deficit of the state budget for 2016 without 17 billion at 500+ at 54.6 billion and a deficit of 500+ in the budget of 54,7. So, what deficit was this financed from? After all, if it were from the deficit, this deficit was 17 billion more than you planned. Simple? Simple? [[Check out the performances.]] Simple, ma'am? Simple, ma'am? Numbers need to be known.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u139	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I am resigning from the correction because Mr. Sasin will not understand it anyway.]] Member, good. Thank you. [[You can't understand anything.]] It's okay, thank you. [[Nor is Mr President able to understand it.]] Mrs Krystyn Skowrońska... [[Unfortunately, President Sasin did not understand.]] Yes, thank you very much. I understood. Yes, please take your seat. [[Your logic is beyond comprehension.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. In view of the above, you have asked for the floor of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The President has another point in the Sejm and we will therefore allow Mr President, President, I apologise to Mr Kwiatkowski for his reply in the first place. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Only one question has been asked at the Supreme Chamber of Control by Mr Blaze Parda from the Kukiz club15. It concerned the execution of post-control applications. When controlling the implementation of the State budget, we also check each time the implementation of the audit proposals of the previous years in the budgetary unit concerned. I can say that in 2016 and earlier years, these irregularities, which were in particular organisational units, were most often repeated. The magnitude of these irregularities was also similar in 2016 and in previous years. As regards the State budget in 2015 NIK formulated, sorry, in 2016, for 2016, 294 post-control proposals, of which 118 have been completed, 111 are in progress and 65 are still not completed. For us, every examination of follow-up proposals is also an impulse to prepare planned controls, where we are possibly deepening these issues, which are repeated as irregularities. An example of such an audit from the area we are talking about today is the audit, from which we have recently presented information on the results to the Sejm on the transparency and transparency of public finances in the framework of budgetary reporting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this order, you have asked Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I answer Mrs Tokarska's question, I must refer to the statements made in the Citizen's Platform's club speech stating that there was a halt to housing, rail and road investments in 2016. I do not know if you are sorry, but these are undoubtedly false claims, because in the area of housing the number of apartments - for the first time since 2008 - has exceeded 150,000 in 2016. Sixty-six thousand were paid back. housing and single-family homes, i.e. as much as in 2008 but there has been a significant increase in spending on social housing, because this is growth almost 57% of the MdM you're talking about. After all, in 2016 more expenditure of almost 180 million was planned in the budget and this was almost entirely spent. Since the expenditure rule, which you know has unfortunately failed, we have corrected this year to spend in full the funds planned for this year. A further 68 million will be able to spend this year, i.e. build around 4,000 in this and next year. Apartments additionally, or rather give loans for the purchase of apartments or construction of houses - about 68 million PLN. On the other hand, all expenses related to housing or construction in the broad sense have been realized either 100% Or almost 100%. Sometimes the spending rule, when there's a grant, doesn't make it possible to spend 100 percent. As regards roads, there is an increase in expenditure by 37% compared to 2015, i.e. over PLN 4 billion, ladies and gentlemen. True, it was built, you can say, only 150 km of national roads, but it is always the beginning of the perspective... It's about the same railroad. The previous perspective ended, and in 2015 we were still finishing this perspective, just as it was, you also remember it, in 2012 and 2013. In 2013, of course, there was also a decrease in relation to 2012 expenditure, because in 2012 there was the end of the perspective, and always at the end of the perspective, expenditure is increasing significantly, because it needs to be realised so that it does not go away. The same was true in 2015, when there was a great deal of this expenditure. In 2016, these expenditures are necessarily often less expensive. In terms of rail, it is regrettable that many tenders, which you have even started, unfortunately cannot be executed because - so to speak very colloquially - there was simply no material in addition to the empty covers to carry out these tenders. However, in terms of budget expenditure of the National Railway Programme there has been an increase, i.e. over 60 million, and investments that were made in 2016 covered more than 422 km of roads. As far as rail maintenance and renovation are concerned, spending is more than 2.7 billion. This is more than twice as much, ladies and gentlemen, twice as much as in 2015. This year by the end of June we concluded contracts for over PLN 11 billion. By the end of the year we still want to conclude contracts for 9 billion, so that this year contracts for 20 billion PLN will be concluded. There must be absolutely no interruption or cancellation of any tenders. If it was not necessary, because it was not possible to implement it, there were no cases where investments which had previously been planned would have stopped or not been realised. In each of these three areas, both housing, rail and road expenditure, 100% the planned expenditure has been realized or has not deviated much, 97.98%. On the other hand, referring in detail to Mrs Tokarska's question as regards expenditure on local road financing - of PLN 800 million was not spent 17 million, right? Ladies and gentlemen, in the spending rule, it's really not much, it's just 2%. If we have a grant rule, these things happen because there are savings. Secondly, every expense must be completed by the end of the year. 17 million is a really good result and there is absolutely no wasted task here. 850 tasks were completed, 1500 km of roads were rebuilt, 300 km of new roads were built and 254 km of roads were renovated... [[You've executed our tenders.]] ...that's over 2,000. We realized the kilometers. Then why are you saying... [[It started the Platform!]] [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] But I'm not saying who started it, I'm just referring to your statement, because you said the investment was stopped. [[Thousands of sketches.]] No investments have been stopped. [[You've made your own zero.]] Mr. Marshal, may I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u143	You can, of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u144	...a polemic to drive? Okay, thank you very much. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u145	Please, Mrs Skowrońska, Minister Grabarczyk, allow me to speak calmly and to the polemics I would like to invite you to the cloughs. [[Tell the Minister the truth and don't take advantage of our success.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. I've asked you very kindly to respect this request. [[I answer very warmly.]] Then please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u146	I'm just realizing... I would like to present to you the facts to which you have misappreciated. I'm not saying who was the inventor or who was... We did it as the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło, just like you. you have successfully accomplished many of the things we planned in 2008. I'm referring to the facts. [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u147	Madame, I really... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: I'm referring to the facts, and please don't argue with the jury... [[Joy in the Chamber]] From the bench, I'm sorry, barrister's habit, forgive me. Please speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and lead this polemic from the right place. I repeat once again, there was no interruption of investment, they were made 100%. Where this was impossible, of course such cases are, as if these 800 million, of which 17 million were not used, are the expenditure of local governments. Self-governments did what they could. [[We're not gonna give up the schematics.]] All expenses were made so as not to mislead the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm just politely explaining.]] Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Energy, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am replying to Mr Krzysztof Gadowski on monetary equivalents for pensioners from mines placed in liquidation before 1 January 2007. In the past 2016 the Social Insurance Institution paid 151 171 thousand. zł. 13 588 thousand were paid out to persons entitled to free coal from mining works. zł. In 2016, cash equivalents were paid for the right to free coal for 9057 persons entitled from mining works companies. Those who got paid out of the Social Security Office were over $9,000. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u149	Thank you. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzenna Drab.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question addressed by Mrs Michalek on improving teachers both at home and abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, teacher training is implemented in three ways. Firstly, by means of measures which are of an amount of 0,5% up to 1% This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, That's what they do to JST. Last year it was an amount of PLN 282 million. Uh, expensive, voivodship budgets. The Voivodeships had 5 million to improve their teachers. On the other hand, the third route is the MEN budget, which secured and spent PLN 22 million, including the European Union's funds. In terms of training and professional improvement, ORE, the Centre for Education Development, carries out vocational and continuing training, while ORPEG carries out methodological training for Polish teachers. In terms of opportunities and entities, both universities and certified centres carry out this improvement. As far as priorities are concerned, the most important thing is that the plans are drawn up in line with the needs of the school. Teachers make their offer, directors look into it and make plans for it. The approved plans shall be implemented. Of course, we are very interested, determined to make this improvement and education of the highest quality, because we want schools of high quality to be safe. In order to achieve these objectives, teachers must be well prepared. As far as general teacher improvement programmes are concerned, an amount of 1803 thousand was allocated. zł, of which 917 thousand. was allocated from the European Union and 886 000. PLN of national funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kazimierz Baszko asked about the In 2015 the use was 67% , and in 2016 it was 67.9% The plan. This execution, even though we reduced the amount, was still at a low level. This was due to several reasons. The first reason was that running day-to-day help homes or day-to-day support homes for older people is the task of their own municipalities. Of course, the Ministry could not transfer investment funds, only current funds. Thus, in 2016 the proposals of the municipalities, which had dedicated buildings after the busts, after kindergartens and after nursery schools, were financed mainly. Only modernizations and equipment of these buildings were financed. We thought the Ministry's funding of this programme was wrong. We moved the funding of day-to-day senior support centers to voivodeship level in this new program, which was called "Senior+" Voivodeships can also finance the construction of new facilities. We were accused that in those municipalities to which the programme was addressed - the programme was directed mainly to those weakest, poorest municipalities - often there were no suitable buildings to create a senior home, while there were plots on which it could be built. At the moment, since 2017, we also have the opportunity, first of all, to make the diagnosis and funding go through the voivod's budgets. Secondly, we also finance investment expenditure in addition to current ones. Thirdly, in addition to day-to-day residences, senior homes, we have given the opportunity to create senior clubs, which also offers greater opportunities to meet local needs when it comes to elderly people. I repeat once again that in 2015 in 67% was implemented plan - in 2015 it was 67% - in 2016, 67.9%. We agree that this was not sufficient, hence the change of the programme, which caused this programme to offer three possibilities: the possibility of funding by the voivod's budgets, not by the Ministry, the possibility of financing also the construction of daily houses and, the third possibility, the possibility of creating not only daily houses, but also senior clubs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u153	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Katarzyna Głowala, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u154	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to Anna Kwiecińska's questions, in 2015 the proceeds to the NFZ from the ZUS plus KRUS amounted to PLN 67 billion, in 2016 to PLN 70 billion. As far as ZUS itself is concerned, the proceeds from contributions to the NFZ were previously rounded up by PLN 64 billion, in 2016 - PLN 66 billion. In accordance with the Social Security Fund's Public Benefits Act, the Social Security Office pays 0.2% on the sum of these revenues for the cost of service. And these service costs amounted to PLN 126.5 million in 2015, and PLN 133 million in 2016. That's the answer. With regard to Mr Grabarczyk's questions about hospices, I would like to reply that in 2017 the President of the NFZ has contracted benefits for perinatal hospices and since that year, payments will be made to all perinatal hospices under the Life Programme. On the other hand, the draft law on medicinal activities was then rejected by the Health Committee and it is difficult for me today to comment on the decision of the Health Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u155	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of a member of the Council of Ministers, head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, by Minister Beata Kempa. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to answer two questions from your fellow Members, Mrs Szydłowska and Mr Arndt, if I have read them correctly. Now, with regard to Mrs Szydłowska's question and the issue of the space agency, unfortunately, I would like to say that the President, whom you have appointed, by Prime Minister Beata Szydło after not receiving the activity report - the results of this activity, which have been confirmed, could not be accepted by the President of the Council of Ministers under supervision - simply was cancelled. So the question is... [[Must have been Misiewicz.]] But he was created by the Civic Platform. He was appointed by the Civic Platform. The report was not adopted because of those irregularities, of which, among other things, was not adopted. here you have said, they have been defined. So this is the country. a summary of the activities of the man appointed by you. And in surveillance mode, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, once again... [[That's what I'm talking about.]] ...she could not accept this report and called off the President for, for example, the issues that you spoke about. Hence, it is impossible to speak of any particular achievements. It's like the answer to the first question. On the other hand, as regards the Member who asked about the general reserve from the state budget, this reserve was granted to the Wielkopolska Voivodeship in the amount of 4998 thousand. PLN exactly, was intended for the district of Gniezno to finance the implementation of the task: Improving the quality of health services and increasing access to medical services, including electronic services of the ZOZ Gniezno to increase the efficiency and availability of medical services provided. This assistance, in fact, because of the catastrophic situation in this hospital in particular, should be carried on, I think that together, by the effort of all, not only Members of the Law and Justice, but also other people who have sought it, because the situation was not, as I recall, cheerful and should also be the subject of concern of the Civic Platform, which left all this behind in this and not another state. As far as the General Treasury is concerned, full agreement is being made, Mr President, that it is the so-called one. the effects that may be extraordinary, but if you look at them, you will see that there are also a lot of tasks in the field of health protection, and that is extremely important. Health alongside work and safety in every citizen's life is, I think, the most important issue. There is a great deal of expenditure in terms of funding for very important health-related elements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u157	Thank you, Minister. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Teresa Czerwinska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to respond to your questions and to some of the points that have been raised here. I will answer the questions together, because some of them concerned very similar issues in fact, and these issues were not addressed by my previous speakers because they were the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the rhetorical question has been raised here by Mr Sasin, who is concerned about the size of the planned deficit. Well, I can only confirm. That is, in terms of the figures that we have in the budget, the planned deficit in this 2016 budget law was significantly higher than the deficit implemented. But it's just a matter of confirmation, and I don't want to go into that anymore. [[And maybe you shouldn't do that, because it's not right, it's not right.]] I'm going to address the issues we're discussing... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u159	Mrs... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: ...here many times, namely public debt and service of public debt. I am sorry that I do not refer by name to each of your Members because I have aggregated these questions, but I hope that I will complete this list of questions. If one question is not answered or, in particular, if one of your fellow Members feels that this is not a decisive statement, then of course I also serve in writing. First of all, I refer to the question of the increase in public debt in 2016 and also to the service of debt, because such questions have been raised, as I have noted. Namely, the issue of access to a flexible credit line in the International Monetary Fund. First of all, with regard to the Treasury's debt, it actually amounted to more than PLN 928 billion at the end of 2016. And this is where I want to talk about two things. With regard to these statements, which resulted in this debt, of course it stems from the priorities of the government and the borrowing needs that have emerged. Here I would like to talk about two issues, namely the deficit of the state budget, which is PLN 46.2 billion and the deficit of European funds in cash is PLN 12.6 billion. Therefore, of course, these are, I would say, the thick ones, the big ones. In addition, I can say that the increase in debts was influenced by such non-systematic factors, which were also mentioned here - perhaps it did not sound so sufficient - namely exchange rate differences, because there were indeed exchange rates differences and there was a weakening of the gold at the end of 2016, that is about PLN 15 billion, and of course an increase in the level of liquid funds, that is PLN 14.6 billion, that is, what serves budget security and potentially such measures to reduce debt emissions in subsequent periods. So these are the main things about increasing debt. Indeed, with regard to this debt in 2016, when we take the Treasury's debt alone, this is an increase, here the number of 11.3%, the government's public debt is an increase of 10%. However, I would like to add to this picture, because many times here there have been statements about the need to look at the public debt, in general on the whole of this issue, from a time perspective, to say that in percentage terms, if we take this increase in the Treasury debt, it was higher in 2008, when the debt increased, so I have calculated at the moment, 13,6 in relation to the previous year. The growth rate of public debt was higher between 2008 and 2009 when... [[But the crisis was, why don't you just say it?]] ... was in the range of 11,6 and 13,3%. Government debt, on the other hand, grew faster and could also be found such periods, i.e. from 2008 to 2011, and that is from 10.5% to close to 14%. With regard to this need for a country that has sounded to look at these loan needs and the question of debt in the long term, of course we also have this data and we serve it as much as possible. [[But you're manipulating the minister. We're sorry. You're manipulating.]] On the other hand, when it comes to what is involved in this debt, here is the question of how to handle debt. Indeed, as far as the amounts that have fallen are concerned, I can only supplementally say that the cost of access to this flexible credit line at the moment does not apply, in fact, to the 2016 budget, but at the moment I just want to point out that this is a decrease to 69.2 million PLN, while in fact the cost has fluctuated since 2009, i.e. since the release of this credit line, until today. I would also like to say that he is, of course, connected with the availability of the resources that are assigned to this line. Indeed, in January this year. at the request of Poland there has been a further reduction in the value of the line and at the moment this value of the line is 8.8 billion dollars. [[Voice from the hall: And in your opinion, the minister did not need this line at the time?]] So when it comes to the cost of accessing... [[But there's a comment.]] Excuse me, Minister. Don't argue with the jury, Minister. You were also the finance minister... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...you know how hard it is to answer questions if someone's interfering... [[But we do know how the Minister manipulates the data.]] ...as Mrs Skowronska and Mrs Leszczyn do. [[But he's manipulating, Marshal.]] Please do not disturb and conduct polemics from the Parliamentary benches. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: So, as far as the cost of debt service is concerned, I can also say that a reduction in the cost of payment for the availability of this very flexible credit line, which must be said that it is indeed such an element, I would say, the security of public finances... And I can add, indeed, that when it comes to the cost of issuing tax certificates, these costs are also, of course, lower. Right now it's 0.2%. the total cost of domestic debt service, i.e. we try to reduce these costs of debt service. They are likely to decrease next year as well. As regards handling, here too several times, ladies and gentlemen, you have discussed Poland's falling out of this body of the first 10 seats in terms of debt-to-GDP ratio. Indeed, as I have checked in the meantime, Poland is in 11th place at the moment, so it is still important to stress that we are still in a very good place... [[And the growth?]] ...in countries where the debt-to-GDP ratio, if we consider both the euro area countries and the countries of the European Union as a whole... Here, I'd say... [[Is this because of you, Minister?]] ...we have good achievements. As regards the question which was raised here, Mr Romecki's question, which asked how Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego supports Polish entrepreneurs, asked for an increase in the level of aid, here I can say about the programme, which we call de minimis guarantees, which was launched in 2013. This programme is being continued, and it is very interesting. And here Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego on behalf of the government implements this program to support entrepreneurs using guarantees and guarantees. To this day Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has opened guarantees of over 39 billion PLN for credit obligations of Polish entrepreneurs. On average, this is about PLN 9 billion per year, including a billion of these are turnover loans, the rest are investment loans. Here I can say that these guarantees would generate funding for 124,000. entrepreneurs, and the credit action that went in connection with the mobilisation of the guarantee, that is over PLN 68 billion. Another issue that concerns the state of the local authorities and the statement made by your Member on the debt of the local authorities. Indeed, the situation of local authorities in 2016, if we consider the implementation of the budget, is very good, namely that we have PLN 7.6 billion surplus, which we can say is something to brag about. On the other hand, as far as a little bit is concerned, I would say a more in-depth analysis, of course I can agree with the fact that in the case of local governments, the area where the implementation difficulties arose was the absorption of European funds. This has been the case since the beginning of the perspective, and this has been pointed out on several occasions here, namely the difficulty of absorption of European funds - for various reasons, which also sounded in the Committee on Public Finance, because they were mentioned by individual ministries. However, I would say, given the statistics we have for 2016, that the situation was very good in terms of debt levels. I can also say that local authorities, where the level of debt excluding commitments to European programmes and projects is above 60% It's 1.7%... [[Then why the RIO bill?]] ...are 1.7% all local government units. [[Indeed, you did it for a different purpose.]] This situation, like I said, with this execution, looks like it. I think these are all the questions that have been addressed to the Minister of Finance. When it comes to questions concerning franc credits and the size of the credit shares, as well as financial data concerning bank transfers, these are, of course, questions at the National Bank of Poland. Here I do not have such information as I could give to the honourable House today. As I said at the beginning, if any of the questions... if one of the ladies and gentlemen has such a need, we will complete our written answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Jacek Sasin, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u160	Thank you very much, Marshal. Very briefly on one point only. High Izbo, during the discussion, the issue of the increase in these tax arrears was raised and this was presented as evidence that during the rule of law and justice in 2016, the effectiveness of VAT collection did not increase as the figures show, but on the contrary, was worse than in the times of the Civic Platform. So I think it's worth referring to this, because it's worth it to have real information in this Chamber, in the Chamber of Parliament, in the Polish Sejm. [[It's true.]] Well, in order not to be literal, I will appeal to the Supreme Auditorium's report. Reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber I don't think you're gonna question that, after all, the House is not headed by a politician or a former politician of Law and Justice, but by Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Minister in the Government of Donald Tusk. So I guess there's no reason to include false information in the reports... [[They're here, ……]] ...information good for the government of law and justice. The Supreme Audit Chamber published the results of the audit in 2017. The title of the report is to respect the interests of taxpayers by the tax authorities and to safeguard the interests of the Treasury when carrying out administrative executions. We can learn from this report that the tax arrears due in total at the end of 2016 and recorded in tax offices amounted to 68.9 billion and VAT arrears of 59.6 billion. The conclusions of this report show that in 2016, i.e. during the rule of law and justice - I quote the conclusion - have been implemented by the Minister of Finance by changes in the effective action of tax and fiscal authorities on the collection of VAT arrears; the changes made also resulted in increased detection of irregularities and tax fraud. And further: the Minister of Finance, by making efforts and setting strategic targets, has increased the effectiveness of administrative enforcement of tax obligations, acting in the interest of the Treasury and the taxpayer. They're words. And the numbers? Because this report also results in numbers. The rate of effectiveness and collection of tax arrears for 2016 was 34.2%. Due to the execution, the budget of PLN 3230 million was received. This result was 8 percentage points higher than that for 2015, because then the effectiveness rate was 26,8. [[That's a big difference.]] Jumping, Minister, Mrs Jumping, yes, because, as you were Minister, this increase - I'll tell you how much it was then - was 2.6%. [[And you understand that these times are impossible to compare?]] You were then Minister of Finance, and then Mrs. Ministry of Finance, where you were a member of the management, was able to use the actions you allegedly took, as you argued, to make such an increase: 2.6%. On the other hand, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło was able to increase its office in just one year, the first year of its office, this rate of efficiency of downloadability by 8%. [[Our decisions have come to fruition.]] If you want, you can. If you didn't notice the problem... I showed this graph today. For eight years, you haven't seen... [[But you're lying again.]] ...the problem of the growth of irrecoverable tax arrears. [[We had a crisis at the time.]] Crisis, Minister... You're not trying to convince us that the crisis has made you unable to collect taxes? Taxes could have been lower... [[The crisis made it smaller.]] ...through the crisis, it's basic knowledge, while tax collection has nothing to do with the crisis. [[Check the company's payments.]] It's just efficiency, it's just the ability to create the right laws that prevent fraudsters from stealing public money that should affect the state budget. This country has run out of time in your governments, and indeed it is time to admit it at the moment, because really your claims that you allegedly fought tax fraud effectively, unfortunately have nothing to do with reality and in the face of the hard figures that are contained in the report of the NIK, which I recall... [[104 billion.]] ...in the light of this report too, they have nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But who introduced the uniform control file? Tell me honestly.]] [[104 billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u161	Thank you, sir. Thank you, too, Madam President. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on discharge in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm accept information about guarantees and guarantees given in 2016 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for information. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2016. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on National Property Resources (print No.1726). I ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present today from this speaker a draft law on the National Property Resources, a project submitted by the Government of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The housing problem is a problem that seems to be unsolved by generations. It will already be a truism to remind you that one of August's demands has not yet been met, and this request of August 1980 was a request for housing availability. After a few decades. This availability is much easier, but unfortunately it is only for those, for the part of society that has either sufficient financial resources or credit capacity, which also translates into funds to buy housing, and the prospect for those who work, who maintain families, but their income does not allow them to borrow, the prospect of taking up their own apartment is moving away for several decades or even impossible to realize in their lifetime. Many attempts have been made, many projects have been undertaken, and when effective ways have emerged, they have been blocked, and when there have been support methods, they have proved to be support only and only very limited, dedicated, for example, to a group of developers dedicated to those living in large cities dedicated to those with specific income. The report drawn up by Polish professors, by the scientific community, in the 2005 report on the state of housing in Poland points to a demographic problem, mainly the development problem of our country. And so one of the professors who participated in the work of this team, coined a statement, a saying, which I often use: No nest, no chicks. There are no apartments, there are no young families who will look for their future in Poland. There's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, there's no marina, According to statistics of the Central Statistical Office, most Polish families, more than 70% Polish families consider the housing problem to be one of the main ones, considers the housing to be one of the main objectives of the family, and 50% depends on living conditions. These are very laconic terms, but how meaningful and very profoundly affecting the perspective of our country in this generation and in future generations. Today, housing statistics in Poland are devastating for us. Even today, during the debate on earlier points, I heard a reference from one of my fellow Members to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The Supreme Chamber of Control constantly considers the housing situation of Poles to be even dramatic as a bad one. And it is not surprising, because Poland in various European statistics occurs at the last places. Today in Poland, on average, there are 1 000. The residents have 363 apartments. In the European Union the average is 435, Austria - 528 to our 363, Bulgaria - 528, Hungary - 442 apartments, Romania also has more apartments of 1 000. residents. Today in Poland the housing problem is related to the lack of apartments for rent. At present, the rental market for apartments is very, but this is very limited, it could be said, in sizes that are not comparable to European averages. Unfortunately, nothing has happened in recent decades that would change this relationship. Today only 4% of Poles rent apartments on market conditions. I will compare this with data in France, where it is 36%, in Austria - 43% , in Germany - 48% , in Switzerland - 55% Swiss rent apartments on market conditions, just on the commercial market. Unfortunately, nothing has happened recently, which would change this situation in Poland. Because no one said that today a young man wants and must own an apartment. No one said the young family had to own the apartment. Of course, it will probably be their purpose in life, but today the young family is waiting and hoping for an apartment that can be rented, maintained, and decently lived, and at the same time think about children, think about the future, and not that the rent ruins the house budget. Today, there is virtually no market for such apartments in Poland. Today, young people with this product, this number of low rent apartments, this market can only dream about. Today, we are putting the High House under discussion, consideration and - I hope - after a thorough analysis of the draft law which, in its assumption, will solve these housing problems of Poles in a large part, will reduce the housing deficit, which today amounts to 970 thousand. apartments; today, according to data, according to research, 970,000 are missing. apartments. This housing deficit, we hope, will be managed by means of various instruments, not only those included in this project, but also other instruments that stimulate the housing market. This housing deficit will be eliminated by 2030, but it should also be... Because someone will say: after all, it is so easy; if in Poland it is being built, just as last year, 2016, 164 thousand. apartments - earlier years are about 146, 143, 148 thousand, 135 thousand. apartments, different in different years - that's 10 years, that's 1.5 million apartments. But today we must also remember those who live in substandards who live in dwellings, in dwellings that do not correspond to this technical minimum, the minimum standards in which a man should live in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, today according to statistics 5.3 million people live in a substandard. 5.3 million people, 5.3 million Poles live in a substandard. These activities are also dedicated to those who live in apartments where there are no sanitary hubs, where sometimes water supply facilities, collection points are somewhere in the halls. In any case, they do not conform to the technical conditions that apartments should meet today. This project fulfils the programmed obligations of Law and Justice. Over the past few years, we have been talking about the problem of housing deficit in Poland, the problem of the future of families, not only young families, but also those who have been struggling with the housing problem for several years or dozens of years, must be solved. Today we are proposing an instrument that will radically contribute to this. It will contribute to increasing the availability of housing for moderate income groups, those social groups which, under existing market conditions, do not have sufficient financial opportunities to rent apartments for their own use - not only for the purchase of housing, but often for the rental of this apartment. Draft Act on National Resources Real estate is the answer to the conclusions arising from the diagnosis of the housing situation in the country made in the context of the work on the National Housing Programme. Now it is worth pointing out the main aspect of our actions. This is an increase in access to housing for people with income currently preventing the acquisition or rental of housing on a commercial basis; an increase in the capacity to meet the basic housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion due to low incomes or particularly difficult living conditions; an improvement in housing conditions by improving the technical state of housing resources and increasing energy efficiency. The project I am talking about introduces solutions to increase the supply of rental apartments with moderate rents by using property owned by the State Treasury. We propose the use of these properties for realization of housing investments. The National Property Resource set up under this law will not only serve as a real estate institution of the State Treasury and gain revenue from it, but will also contribute to the creation of stable and efficient financing conditions for the instruments adopted under the National Housing Programme. It is created whether it will be created, we hope, the National Property Resource, which will not be an institution that will take over the property of the State Treasury. I dedicate this information to all those who have otherwise understood our intentions to the provisions of the bill in relation to the National Property Resources. The National Property Stock will have a list of real estate and this list will be drawn up on the basis of information provided by the State institutions. Today, a horse with a row of people who will answer, how much property we have in Poland of the State Treasury, e.g. located within the cities which are included in the spatial planning plans as those that are possible for housing or are included in the study as housing, housing. There's no such information, ladies and gentlemen. You won't find such information, you won't reach into the directory, you'll find such information. The National Property Resource will be the institution that will hold the same real estate list. When I say: a horse with a row to find such information, I refer to those who would like to invest in housing and would like to know in one day or in one hour where, what resource, in which the government has - what resource within the administrative boundaries of the city, which resource beyond the borders of the cities included in the spatial planning plan. Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what appears in the media space, the National Property Resources will not be the institution to which the real estate will be transferred. It's going to be a land bank where these properties will continue to rest. [[How? The bill says it.]] They will continue to be in the National Property Resources land of the Treasury as its potential still untapped. Because the lack of use of the possibilities that the State has, with land assets, assets in the form of areas where housing is possible, this is not a sin of negligence, this is not a sin of omission, this is more than that. And we have this potential and these opportunities and we want to use it. The National Property Resource will take over those properties for which specific plans will be made, specific concepts of their buildings, and those properties which will be able to be used directly for housing purposes. The National Property Stock will be tendered for, made available in perpetual use of these properties for housing purposes under certain conditions, which will result in us dedicating these projects, as I said, to this social group, to Poles who do not have the credit capacity today, to those who will be able to rent apartments with access to property. Rental of those parts of apartments built in multi-dwelling buildings in areas where perpetual use will be transferred by tender to the entity, to an institution which will present the best, most favourable conditions... These persons will be protected in a special way against excessive rent, against the possibility of prior sale of these apartments, than is specified in the Act, and from other activities of the housing operator, the managers of those properties, which would change the status of the tenant, the tenant who will fulfil his duties and obligations. And these obligations and obligations we understand as the timely payment of certain rents, rents defined in the revised regulation of the Council of Ministers every year. Someone might ask where the profitability of such an undertaking is. We propose that in each of the buildings, some of the housing units, the developer, should be able to use for commercial purposes, to dispose of these housing units, to establish in them a rent according to their own calculations. We also propose that parts of the premises outside the common parts be separated, if necessary, from commercial premises. We're assuming 50%. the area outside the common parts will be reserved for rental with access to the property, with the protection of the tenant, while the second part, i.e. the remaining 50% , will be used by the builder for commercial purposes. Someone will ask why archaic perpetual use. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the entity that will participate in the tender will not have to spend money on the purchase of real estate, but will cover it, otherwise: it will pay about 20% of the value of the property valued earlier, before the tender is announced, while the remaining parts will be paid in instalments. And this is the benefit for the business, which we believe to be convinced of, makes these proposals attractive in business. The National Property Stock will also be able to sell the real estate in a tender procedure, but each time it has to obtain the decision of the competent minister, the Minister responsible for construction, the consent to sell, the sale of the real estate in a tender procedure, the transfer of the property in a tender procedure. The National Property Resource will ensure that protection is established for tenants who will rent apartments with a specific rent, that is, regulated. He will ensure that the housing operator - here we introduce the concept of a housing operator - whether it is the original entity that has entered into the tender, has built a multi-dwelling building, whether it has settled, sold parts of these properties, whether it will be another entity which, in the purchase transaction chain, is the ultimate owner of this facility, each time he has to comply with the statutory obligations in the context of the protection of the conditions that were specified in the contract: rent and later access to ownership, i.e. transfer of ownership to the tenant. That's a huge guarantee. This guarantees that these properties will not be removed from the property stock of the State Treasury in an uncontrolled manner. Someone asks: Why is the archaic formula of perpetual use used here? Because we have written in the draft law, there is a provision in which it is clearly defined that in case of failure to fulfil obligations penalties are first imposed, and it is severe punishments, because it must always work in two directions. On the one hand, we offer great opportunities to our business partners, but we also expect them to meet the conditions. And it's never going to be worth not meeting the terms of the contract. And if there is ultimately a drastic breach of the contract, it will always be possible to terminate the agreement with the beneficiary of those properties on which we have transferred the right of perpetual use in the tender formula. National Property Resource is a guarantee of the purchase price of the apartment, also after years. These are guarantees based on our in-depth economic analysis. And now the question arises about the conditions that future beneficiaries of this programme must fulfil. We're talking about those, we're talking about those who have become victims of a natural disaster, we're talking about those who, as I said, do not have the possibility to borrow for the purchase of an apartment or - at the moment when they're applying or applying to rent an apartment - they weren't before. and are not owners of a legal title to an apartment or a residence. There will be preferences for those who have children, for exterminated persons, for those who have lost their homes because of - I think I have already said - natural disasters or natural disasters. Those wishing to be beneficiaries of this scheme must also fulfil the basic conditions, and such a basic condition is the ability to pay rent, even the low, lower than the current market. The National Property Stock will also be in tender mode transferring perpetual use to future users of parcels on which single-family homes will be built. We propose that in those areas where single-family housing is possible and there may be no need for multi-dwelling buildings, in the tender procedure, transfer the property in which single-dwelling houses will be built according to certain criteria. The beneficiaries will be persons fulfilling conditions similar to those of renting apartments with regulated rent. The National Property Resource in its competence will have the possibility to prepare real estate for construction. What does that mean? If today the property of the State Treasury has an area of approx. 2, 3 ha - I give examples of completely theoretical - these 2, 3 ha located somewhere within the city boundaries have their value. In turn, if this property is divided into plots with an area, as we assume, about 7 acres and will be armed, a geodesic division carried out, a tender announced and the National Property Resources will lay out an architectural and construction project for a particular type of building, then we hope that all those who will perform in this tender, and that they will be families whose status I have already mentioned, will be able to enter into the perpetual use of these properties and often the economic system, as it is still being carried out in Poland today, because the economic system has not passed into history - and by the economic system we understand the construction, where the main elements are carried out by professionals, while many auxiliary works, works that do not require professional knowledge, are carried out by the investor himself and his next family, by colleagues, acquaintances, neighbours - will be able to carry out a lot of work themselves. This way it will be very interesting, as I believe, an offer for those who, for various reasons, will not want to live in a multi-blocked environment, but will want to be the owner of their own house on their own plot. National Property Resources - as I said - will organize and prepare real estate for construction. This resource will be able to combine its potential with the potential of local governments. This is a very important element, I do not hide, which we count on very much, and we already know today in connection with the pilot implemented by BGKN, that local governments are very much counting on cooperation, that they will be able to carry out housing projects together with the institution supervised by the government. These housing projects will be carried out in the conglomerate, the buildings implemented in agreement with local governments will be built apartments, will include social housing, municipal housing, they will also be able to be built depending on how the parties agree, and this law allows, in part, commercial space. All this depends on how the two parties agree on the location of these future housing investments. We hope that the National Property Resources in agreement with local governments will optimise these projects. In the Act we have written down that local governments are the only partners of the National Property Resource, partners with which the national resource will be able to establish special purpose companies for the realization of housing projects. Ladies and gentlemen! The mechanisms set out in the proposed draft law, print No. 1726, are very brief and contain solutions to protect the State Treasury from uncontrolled real estate flows. This is the advantage of this project. The advantage of this bill is that the National Property Resources as an institution with a full database of information on the properties on which housing can be carried out, as an entity directly pursuing housing policy, using tools such as special purpose companies or stimulating in part of the housing market - in part limited to the property on which perpetual use will be disposed of by tender - gives hopes and chances that we will break the housing impasse in Poland. As I said at the outset, the proposed bill is not the only project to stimulate housing in Poland. Today, we also have high hopes for the law that has recently left the Sejm and has been addressed to the Senate, which is the subject of work in the Senate, the Housing Cooperatives Act. Housing cooperatives have long signaled that they have hidden - i.e. untapped - potential for housing. It is our duty to create a variety of material conditions or to change the legal environment in such a way that the potential of all entities that operate or can operate in the housing market can be exploited. They also include housing cooperatives whose potential as part of housing investments, precisely in such a very simple lease mode with access to property, because it is considered to be the tenant's right to housing, this lack of housing, this housing deficit can reduce. Today we point to the need to support local authorities directly in municipal construction and social buildings. This is also a necessary action. Here we must activate this activity very strongly. We hope in the operation of these provisions, which are contained in today's draft law. This bill contains solutions that can accelerate - we are convinced - will accelerate municipal construction and create better conditions for social construction, because in Poland social construction He needs backup, too. This is beyond discussion. When all these actions are supported - we assume that this will be soon, at one of the next sessions of the Sejm after the holiday break - a complex project to simplify and speed up the procedures in housing, because this is also a very important element that needs to be included in this large project, which is the National Housing Program... So we hope that this synergy effect, achieved through the use of these various instruments, will allow us to take Europe's place in the number of apartments per thousand. residents, a place in Europe with a housing market for rent, a place in Europe with a number of apartments for rent at moderate prices, which we will not be ashamed of. Unfortunately, today, our reality puts us in a place in Europe that at least embarrasses us and certainly embarrasses us. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are putting this project under debate with the hope that it will be accepted by the High House and that it will be a project that, in the form of a law, will change the lives of many millions of Poles to a much better one, certainly to a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u163	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 5 minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to refer to the draft Law on National Property Resources No. 1726. What is the main problem solved by this project? The basic objective of the proposed law is to increase the supply of available properties for residential construction, in particular the use of the National Housing Programme as part of the achievement of the objectives of the new housing policy in Poland? The government adopted the National Housing Programme on 27 September 2016. Just the properties belonging to the State Treasury and the construction of available apartments for rent with the option of obtaining property by the tenant are most desirable. What main measure do we use to achieve the goal of making housing available to low-income people? The bill introduces solutions to increase the supply of flats for rentals with moderate rents by using property owned or used by the eternal State Treasury. Who will pursue the goal of housing availability for low-income people? This objective will be pursued by the State legal person Mon. National Property Resources. National Property Resources is intended to contribute to the creation of stable and efficient financing conditions for the instruments adopted under the National Housing Programme. What are the most important legal solutions that will contribute to this objective? Thus: establishing rules for the qualification and transfer of immovable property owned or used by the perpetual Treasury to the National Property Resource, establishing and defining rules for the functioning of the National Property Resource as a state legal person, further, determining other tasks of the National Property Resource and defining specific rules for the lease of housing by housing operators. What will be the expected effect after the implementation of the project? First of all, increasing the supply of available land for housing, resulting in an increase in the number of investments that will result in housing for rent, as well as ensuring stable and efficient financing of housing that stimulates, in particular, the development of the rental market. This problem is analysed whether it was analyzed before the adoption of this bill also on the basis of comparison to the situation when it comes to renting apartments in Poland and in other countries. The Minister spoke more widely on this subject. I will refrain from passing on the information that the Minister has already mentioned. Anyway, the problem is very serious. We have very few apartments on the sublet, for rent. And this is the situation that in particular causes that we should reach out and notice the huge problem that families have to deal with, who can't afford to take credit, to buy an apartment, because just such abilities They don't. So, ladies and gentlemen, draft law on National Resources Real estate is the answer to the conclusions of the diagnosis of the housing situation in our country in the context of the National Housing Programme. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I strongly support the transfer of this project to further seismic work, to rapid seismic work, because people, unfortunately poor people in this case, mostly poor, poor families, are waiting for housing to be built, waiting for local governments to be able to help them. The State must not be indifferent to this problem. Therefore, I am asking the High House to proceed absolutely quickly and to further work on the bill, because it is very desirable, especially in poor environments. Unfortunately, such people are not lacking in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u166	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Honestly, I would expect more details on the bill after your speech for so long, and less on topics that are not relevant to it. We all support the construction of apartments for Poles. We do not need to be persuaded to do so, because we will support as an opposition every step of yours that will serve to increase their number. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present an opinion on the draft law on National Property Resources. The project concerns the establishment of the National Property Resource (NZN) in order to increase the supply of real estate for residential construction in the rental or rental formula with the option to access property, i.e. M+. It provides for automatic - not so, Minister, as you said it would only be selective - the acquisition by this company of land and premises belonging to the Treasury, currently managed by local governments, PKP, military, agricultural agencies and State Forests throughout the country. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act it is stated that the estimated value of the land which is to pass under KZN is PLN 9.5 billion. Is that one of the reasons for this project? The project foresees that the construction of M+ apartments will be financed from the state budget of 25 million in 2017, 125 million in 2018, 50 million in 2019. This is too little money to cover the number of apartments promised by the PiS. This is probably why the project is talking about the possibility of selling KZN land for this purpose. Are you also planning to privatise the State Forests - approved by this project - in order to finance the M+ programme? The Act also provides that the National Property Resources will be able to borrow and take loans. So it's another credit show. You're going to build apartments in the places you've designated, for the people you've identified, and you're going to borrow our common land property. Of course, you are using such a procedure that KZN will be a company, so its debts will not increase the budget deficit. You think the Poles won't notice? You plan to sell the assets of PKP, Poczta Polska and other subsidiaries of the State Treasury using this law. You give Poles cheap apartments from the M+ program. And yet according to the regulation to this law for a 50-metre apartment e.g. In Gdańsk without a buy-out option you will have to pay PLN 542 per month rent. This is a higher price than currently in cooperative housing. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You convinced us of the importance of the apartment. We know that housing is a basic good. We support that, but why is the complex project so bad? It's a legitimate goal, but it's controversial, to put it mildly. You plan to set up a super company, a state pier for the next Misiewicz. [[Applause]] It is to take over all the state areas on the list of voivodeships, and if one of the companies or agencies tries to leave some area in its control, then your minister will have to agree to it. They're corrupt assumptions that strengthen guys. [[Applause]] The supervisory board of this supercompany is to be made up of their own. The Chair and the five members shall be appointed by the Minister of Infrastructure and by one candidate to appoint ministers: finance, agriculture and national defence. The President of this company is to be appointed by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister of Infrastructure. This is defined as a competitive and open call, i.e. each Member of the PiS with a higher education meets these conditions. I am also afraid that this bill will destroy some state-owned Treasury companies. Due to many reservations about the draft law on National Property Resources, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club applies for the rejection of the project in its entirety at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Discredit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u167	Thank you. [[Voices from the room: Discredit!]] [[Yours, yours, not ours.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame! Shame! Shame!]] [[You don't want apartments.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor. [[Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk: Remind you of the names, one by one, how were you Minister?]] [[You'll have time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u168	Dear Marshal,
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u169	Minister, you're welcome to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the government's draft law on National Property Resources. The draft Act on the Establishment of the National Property Resource sets up this institution to carry out the function of managing state property, especially those that can be used for the construction of housing. [[Game in the O.R.]] Introduces solutions to increase the supply of apartments for rent... [[Discredit, you don't want apartments.]] ...of moderate rents by using property owned by the State Treasury. The bill introduces solutions to increase the supply of flats for rentals with moderate rents, including the option of gradual acquisition of property by the tenant. The properties of the State Treasury will be transferred to the National Property Resource by entities which manage them on behalf of, for example, in their current legal state. military agencies such as the Military Property Agency, State Railways, State Forests, Old Towns or City Presidents on the rights of the county, as well as companies controlled by the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The bill introduces regulations on three sides of the development of the housing stock: the tenant, the Treasury and the investor. The tenant will obtain a clear, transparent way of recruiting apartments through a simple system, real protection of the rent, only statutory conditions for termination of the lease, guaranteed purchase of the apartment by the tenant, if he so wishes. The State Treasury will not be deprived of ownership of the property, will have control over the use of the property, will also have control over the amount of the standard rent, the operating fee and the amount of the instalment. The residential operator, the third party to the process, will only bear 30% of the value of the property when the land is transferred to the perpetual use contract, and 100% when the investor buys the land for ownership. When determining the amount of normal rent... It's still important here that 50% of the premises will be for rent, 50% for the developer, of which 20% the surface of the developer can be allocated to commercial surfaces. What's important? What the National Housing Programme says - that in the future, in order to achieve it, it is necessary for people with income that are currently preventing the acquisition or rental of housing on a commercial basis in a clear way to increase access to housing. This regulates, including the help of the National Property Resources. National Property Resources helps to complete the National Housing Programme also for people at risk of social exclusion. It will also significantly improve the housing conditions of our society, which is also very important. What the Minister has already said, our programme, the National Housing Programme, says we need to reach 435 apartments in 1 000. persons. Today it's 365. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we have 540 premises, in Austria 500 premises, Germany has 499 premises. This shows that we have 1/4 fewer apartments in stock and we should get to this level over the next few years. Finally, as such an antidote to complexes here part of the hall, the city of Vienna has similar solutions. The Viennese generally rent apartments. This city of Vienna manages its land, this city of Vienna distributes land, orders projects, orders construction and then the housing stock regulates and allocates it to the Vienna people. The Viennese have learned to live in these resources for the last 100 years. This is very important information for those who often refer to European standards, as well as our Polish complexes. What else is important? Of course, this program will cause the whole front of the construction works, infrastructure, that the whole trade will begin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] construction materials. Therefore, the Kukiz Members' Club15 will vote for this proposal to be sent to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, sir, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the club Modern about printing no. 1726, the government draft law on National Property Resources. I will not hide that all actions aimed at making more housing in Poland need to be supported. There's no doubt about that. However, I would say that in our view, the greatest profit would be if these activities were to increase the number of apartments for rent above all. In Poland, the structure of employment and changes in the economy cause that very often, unfortunately, young people change their place of residence in order to find the right employment and choose the best job. Therefore, it is not so far that when someone was born in one place, he later studied and worked only in the same city. Now that's changed. And therefore there is indeed a large need for apartments to rent to improve this mobility of people so that they can have access to apartments, because when it comes to young people who start their first job, sometimes the best pay, they cannot actually afford to pay commercial rent. What other comments do we have? The project is part of the National Housing Programme, i.e. the necessary complement to the Living+ programme launched in October 2016. However, it appeared on the government's website of the Legislative Centre in December 2016 and became the subject of a very accelerated public consultation. Only seven days have been spent on consultations. Then for six months he disappeared from the view and appeared now, but appeared in a much larger volume, covering a much larger range of impacts. On the other hand, this project, much wider, has unfortunately not been consulted. It has not been consulted, and it seems natural that both representatives of local governments and the party that is supposed to be the entity to be building, that is, developers, should speak on this subject. This would seem to be the right thing to do. It is also not yet clear how the transfer of land belonging to the State Treasury companies is to be established, because the company may, but does not have to. It would also be good to clarify that. Why? Because if the State Treasury company, whose majority shareholder will be the State Treasury, transfers such land, there is a concern that this is not a little damage to the company, because this company could sell it better on the free market, on the tender and may gain greater benefits from it. The question is whether this is to the detriment of minority shareholders in such a company, because they are, because some companies of the Treasury are companies that are on the stock exchange. As far as this whole bill is concerned, as I said, for us, the point that is not entirely acceptable is that it is with the option of redemption. Why? Just what I said at the beginning - but first of all we should focus on apartments for rent. As for companies, supervisory boards, presidents, I assume that, Minister, this will be the first example that you are trying to match the right people, i.e. managers who know what this business is all about, so that it's for the benefit of both. I also miss this project, and I hope that this will come up, the references, how exactly this program will affect the free real estate market, because it can in some sense disrupt it, because there are towns where, it turns out, the amount of land is large enough to satisfy all the needs of the inhabitants. And what happens if one of the developers there tries, I don't know, sell their apartments, and it turns out they won't be able to do it because all the apartments will be cheaper to buy from the Treasury? We therefore have a lot of questions. It's there, for example. a certain maximum operating cost of PLN 10, but we do not know how the rent will be shaped. It may turn out that the rent [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's not attractive, because a communal apartment can be priced cheaper.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u173	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u174	In general, this is going in the right direction, which is why we will give this project a chance. If we can correct it on the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u175	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u176	...we'll be happy about it. So we'll be in favour of handing him over to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u177	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Discrediting the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u178	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party has always supported and wants to support all these activities that serve and will in the future address important issues concerning our society, and without any doubt the issue of meeting housing needs is a priority issue that can help solve many problems, not only problems of living of individual families, but also problems of widely understood demography. I listened very carefully to the speech and justification of the Minister, as did my previous speakers. I believe that, as a club, we will be in spite of comments, doubts and reservations - and I hope that during the committee's work many more issues will be clarified and clarified - in favour of a transfer, like the chairman of the committee. [[Applause]] He asked, a project for further work... [[Thank you. Constructive attitude.]] It's our pleasure. ...so that we can talk about many things in a constructive way as soon as possible, because it is not that we should always be unanimous and nod to each other, but that we should create, in discussion, such statements and write them down so that in the finals we can have the satisfaction appropriate to the merits. We can undoubtedly wonder and ask ourselves whether the transfer of these properties and the creation of an entity such as this company is absolutely necessary in order to achieve this very legitimate objective. I think the Minister will want to go back to that in committee. It can be emotional here. the value of the assets to which the company will own. Here I leave on the side issues of later formulation of organizational structures, personnel cast. As a matter of fact, the dominant party, the group that won the elections, has certain rights and has had and is difficult to disagree with, and to argue with, not to prolong these issues. Nevertheless, Minister, there are such remarks. I came out of the local government and grew up there. Were these consultations, which my previous speakers mentioned, wide enough for the local authorities to comment on this issue? Let us not hide, some of the land that these local authorities managed, managed, will go to another entity, some of the values that remained due to the settlement after the annual period, will be somewhat depleted by the budgets of local governments. Next, will these self-governments, and this applies to the districts, be able to prepare any documentation in the assumed period in time to fill out the record that we will include here? I think that we can still consider this, and I would ask that this issue also be clarified in order to avoid later these comments, objections, objections or allegations that it was carried out without the local government party and disrespect for it. I think that the chairman of the government committee will also be equally inquisitive in this matter. So that I think we will discuss further issues at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u179	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to speak up again? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. I'm asking you not to exceed the time, because we're a 1.5-hour delay. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that it introduces solutions to increase the supply of rental apartments with moderate rents. You spoke to the Minister today about the fact that there is a great deal of interest from local governments, and that is why my question is: Does the Ministry see such risks, or have such analyses been carried out, that the solutions proposed by this law will constitute a kind of competition, and that from a monopoly position, for social housing companies whose owners are local governments and which successfully build apartments for rent on their land? And one more question. If, following the initiation of the execution of an apartment which is the subject of a lease agreement concluded under this law, the entity acquires ownership of the apartment, it will enter into at the same time the full rights and obligations of the existing housing operator and, in particular, whether the buyer of the apartment will be obliged to comply with the provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] lease agreement and regulation of the National Property Resources Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u181	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u182	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Excellent bill, perfectly fits into the National Housing Program and in the continuation, in the implementation of the Living+ programme. I'd like to ask you something, Minister. I am a representative of a district where there are no big cities, there are medium-sized cities, and recently I participated in such formal, solemn signing by the local government, by the mayor of the city of Wieluń, contracts for the realization of the apartments + and I know that there are other local authorities interested in it, including Sieradz and other cities. I would like to ask: How many such agreements have already been signed on a national scale? When will the first apartments from this program be put into service? And because colleagues from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform are malcontents and do not believe that this program is or can be implemented, I would like to ask if it is true that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The city of Łódź, where no one from the Law and Justice is president, has also joined this programme or will join in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have the so-called law. a land bank that aims to improve the operation of the housing+ programme. The National Property Resource will recruit potential tenants and will also monitor the compatibility of individual investments with the programme's assumptions. He'll also be able to punish himself. I wanted to ask you what the punishment is. I also wanted to ask briefly about the costs of setting up and operating a new entity and the budget allocated to the housing+ programme for 2018. What is the budget for this? How much is the rent for each apartment? How will this be calculated from the subway? What are the rules for renting apartments? And who's gonna be able to apply for these apartments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I do not want to ask about the housing programme or the forms of this construction, as I believe that any form of such construction makes sense because housing is needed. On the other hand, I have doubts and questions about the National Property Resources, the appointment of a new state legal person, and especially this part of the income in this respect. In the current state of law, the seniors and city presidents on the rights of the county, who manage a significant part of the property of the State Treasury, may not all, but a significant part, transfer to the state budget through the voivodeship budget. For example, the district of Jelenia Góra and the town of Jelenia Góra transferred 6 million PLN last year. Why can't this money be used to implement the programme? They are. It'll be cheaper, faster, and more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u187	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like an explanation. For years we have fought through a patronage bill, so that Poles live on their own, so that the land is owned by Poles, but this solution, where we have eternal use, is a good solution. I just wanted to ask you if you're expecting a possibility in the future, for example. the tenant who bought the land for perpetual use, in the future, once he has put up the house, will regulate, for example. All his credits, he could pay for this land and get it on his own? So that we Poles would live on our own land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are all aware that there are no cheap apartments, especially those available to young people who do not have high income. Draft Act on National Resources Real estate is a tool that will allow you to implement the I have a question for the Minister, here earlier such questions have been asked, just about security, because these property values are sometimes very high. Is there really going to be a security system, so that if you sell it, for example. Could the real estate be enforced that this was supposed to be the housing purpose, or was it possible to just terminate the contract? And maybe a second question, because I see I have some time left, Minister. Why is this institution, such an important and large one, not located in a place other than Warsaw? Surely, then, the costs of functioning of this institution would be lower. Maybe. Katowice, Częstochowa? Please consider this possibility of change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u191	Thank you so much for that question. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u192	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask if it would be better to support the social housing associations which have been set up for this very purpose, which I support as much as possible. What Mr Meysztowicz said, that housing should be built for the hire of less wealthy people who cannot afford loans, also in order to ensure the mobility of these people who follow work, we support it as much as possible. But wouldn't it be easier and easier - we have a special bill, after all, there will be such crazy costs of setting up this super company - wouldn't it also be better to continue the MdM programme, which, as you know, enjoys such great interest and support for young people? The only reason you're eliminating this is because it was organized and implemented by the PO-PSL government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u193	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked 29 city councilmen in my constituency whether they would join the 500+ programme and also asked questions about the housing needs of their localities. It turned out that from my constituency only three cities joined the 500+ programme: Toruń, Włocławek and Kowalewo Pomorskie. [[Accommodation+.]] Accommodation+, I'm sorry, of course, yes. However - and it was my concern, I am not hiding, especially because I know that a huge number of families are waiting for an apartment - I wanted to ask myself: Is there any chance that after the introduction of this law there will be a greater willingness of local governments to participate just [[♪ The bell ♪]] On this show? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What number of apartments will be given annually to tenants in the coming years and when this process will begin, i.e. When will the first apartments be given? Has the impact of the implementation of the programme on the economy been estimated? In the early '90s, I was hoping that housing would become a flywheel of development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u197	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Housing Programme is a comprehensive project addressed to all Poles struggling with lack of housing. Indeed, as the Minister said, we are on the tail of Europe in terms of the number of apartments per 1000 citizens. No nest, no chicks. Undoubtedly, the housing+ programme fits perfectly into the priority of family policy of the Government of Law and Justice. Minister, does the bill allow for the transfer of land to municipal authorities and, in certain cases, public benefit organisations in connection with the construction of municipal and protected buildings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u199	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law recognises the issue of regeneration and municipal regeneration programmes, and that is good. On the other hand, I would ask here to determine whether the National Property Resources will be able to participate financially in the implementation of the revitalisation programmes, because I had the impression that they would not. The Minister spoke of substandardity, which applies not only to the interiors of the apartments, but also to the environment. And here in your solution, there is enormous potential for supporting projects and urban regeneration plans. It would be worth taking advantage of. And by the way, attention. You are talking about the distribution of real estate - art. 5, then art. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, but in Article. 20 are also referred to as merges. It would be worth it just to be consistent that you're destined [[♪ The bell ♪]] money to split and merge, because these two things have to go together, the more that we also have a large deficit well prepared from this side of the property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Why is it that the housing program, which the government proposes, does not introduce a housing allowance - one, once in a lifetime - for those who can build their own house or apartment on their own land with the help of their own family, or expand the house that this family has settled in? In Poland today, every way of expanding the housing stock is actually a reason of the state of the Polish nation - we have to remember that - because having an apartment, the prospect of having an apartment or a house is simply a prerequisite for family development. We've known about this from research for at least 20 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u203	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u204	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The National Housing Programme is very much awaited by Polish families and here I would like to thank the Minister and his team very warmly for preparing a project that will enable it to be implemented and for preparing this project in such a way that he has received at least a preliminary positive opinion of the majority of the opposition. This is very important. Yes, thank you, Minister. But this project also raises doubts, which is why I have this question, Minister, because this project will increase the supply of land for housing and National Resources. The property will be located, among others. State Treasury resources. Please tell me: Will the land that will be transferred to the National Property Resource be used only for the construction of apartments for rent? Will it be possible to build all this infrastructure on this land? [[♪ The bell ♪]] surrounding, e.g. schools, kindergartens, shops? And can they be disposed of if they were not used to build these properties? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u205	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u206	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Government draft law on National Resources Real estate is a long-awaited good change for young people waiting for their own apartment. I have a question for the Minister: What are the elements of the tenant's protection and how long will the rent be guaranteed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u207	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice are optimistic, but in order not to exaggerate with this optimism, because I would just like to remind you that when it comes to the first housing program of Law and Justice, 3 million apartments, I remember it was not realized. Here I see the second party of optimism, namely that after 4 years the National Property Resource will continue itself. Given that the first real estate that will go to the stock and which may be put up for sale, it will be necessary to arm, if not armed, these expenditures in the first period may be significant. Therefore, I have a question: Is this well calculated, or are you convinced that in the fourth year the National Property Resources will be self-sustaining? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u209	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The existing legislation and the situation on the real estate market limit the possibility of housing for hire by people with moderate income. The main barrier is the high price of land in the real estate market. While the material situation of Poles under the rule of Law and Justice is clearly improving, the number of people who currently cannot afford housing is still high. Without external support, it is impossible to build residential buildings dedicated to people with such limited financial capacity. Such buildings may be built in peripheral areas where land prices are lower, but this could lead to a deepening of the socio-economic marginalisation of such people. And that is why I ask: Will the proposed bill, which allows the use of the property of the State Treasury for the implementation of housing investments, lead to an increase in the supply of available real estate for residential construction and consequently to lower their prices? And second question: Is the National Property Resource appointed as a State for this purpose [[♪ The bell ♪]] the legal person will guarantee such management of the State Treasury's real estate resources in order to support housing construction at prices appropriate to the above mentioned. groups of Poles? [[Applause]] [[Write those speeches a little bit shorter. You almost suffocated.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since we have not actually seen any calculations on how the National Property Resource will self-finance itself, we would like to see some data as to whether there is really a chance that it will be a self-financing project in the perspective of these few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I wish it could be realized... [[Voice from the room: Then why do you reject it?]] ...the national housing program, because there is a need to actually have more of these apartments than there is. I have doubts and questions, of course. Maybe a more specific question first. In the case of the preparation of land, the arms of parcels, etc., as well as the issue for tender, the Act provides only for perpetual use, where this future resident would like to build himself. But shouldn't this also be turned into property? Second thing. This pier, which is created, the National Property Resources - I understand that it is some message, but this centralization, every decision to tender a plot goes to the minister. Isn't the Minister gonna choke on that? [[We are counting on President Lassota's voice.]] [[Voice from the hall: You can always count, you know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u215	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the draft law, it is among others. Starosts, city presidents on the rights of the county, National Agricultural Support Centre, Military Property Agency, State Forests will be obliged to keep lists of the properties they manage and will transfer them to the National Property Resources. Should they give the land in the form of a donation or on the basis of a sales contract? Especially since in the draft law for 2017 the planned expenditure from the budget for the operation of the National Property Stock is at the level of PLN 25 million. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u217	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr. Tomasz Żuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u218	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to these numerous questions, as well as the statements of the clubs, at first I wanted to point out, however, that I should read the draft law well and with understanding, and then draw conclusions, because I appreciate the substantive discussion very much and, unfortunately, I must say that some of the wording was incorrect, to say the least. [[Voice from the room: What's the point?]] So I'm gonna start with the question of statements. First thing, KZN is not a company. As we know, the legal person is not a company, the company is k.s.h., the Commercial Companies Code. The legal person is not a company, it is - like today - the Military Property Agency or the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury. That's the first thing. So at this point, there's no company created. As far as I'm concerned, this company and the passwords that were coming here, we are creating an entity that will effectively manage assets in the form of State Treasury real estate, so it is the good of all of us. We're talking about a team of 50 people, maybe 50, depending on how many of these investments are going to go. That's another line. If you're talking about what the impact is, what it's going to look like, it's going to be self-playing, it's going to be an instrument, it's going to be a market mechanism. We're not setting up another entity here, a state-owned company that's going to build. We define a residential operator. The apartment operator is anyone who wants to build apartments under statutory conditions, half of which can be sold immediately and, in short, get a market price today, and half is to be allocated to those people who do not have an adequate salary for rent with a normal rent, that's what we call it. The lease is the basic formula. It was also here that we didn't define the lease. Of course, we define the rental even in the dictionary at the beginning, both the rental and the rental with the option of access. So every tenant for a period of 15 years has the protection of the rent guaranteed by the state. At the same time, any tenant within 15 years of lease, if he decides that he is comfortable with these conditions, may decide to convert this lease into a lease with the option of accessing the property. Then he becomes actually a user, the owner of this place. And for 30 years of lending the statutory system - you can say: the state through this entity, the National Property Resources - guarantees it the rent and redemption of this apartment. So this mechanism is preserved, we have this market mechanism. This was the case here with issues relating to the rubble of developers or economic operators today. There is no such mechanism, this is an additional tool. You want to build on your own territory that you have. You want the state to launch a mechanism for building apartments on the State Treasury land, that is, on the lands that are all of us today, are our property. If we find that there is a housing deficit, what is more, the construction of apartments is our national good and a lesson from history to be done, I think - also from the point of view of your speech, it has been declared - that we are giving these properties to the State Treasury in perpetual use so that none of them can be found, so to speak, a clever entity who will acquire this property and then build nothing on it. And then there's no holding. Then we can count only on God's providence that, in short, he will do whatever we want. In a situation where we put in perpetual use, we have a hold. You can't do what needs to be done, we're taking the real estate. So we keep the goal and this goal is at this point the 30-year period, when those who rent or decide to rent with the option of access to the property - half, because the first half can be disposed of on the trunk, more so, attractive issues concerning e.g. The size of apartments or equipment... This is a market mechanism and this country guarantees. Here - that is also what Mr Khrushcz asked - after this period it will be possible to transform perpetual use into property, and this mechanism has therefore been preserved in order to have this statutory maintenance and influence of the legislator on the possible actions of an unreliable entity, which at this point will commit itself to enter this programme, of course in the form of building apartments. That's another line. There was a talk at the beginning, as I also mentioned, about the transfer of apartments. There's nothing going on here from the vending machine. The first thing for me is: any entity holding the State Treasury's land today should have a list, which is logical for me. I have a list of what I have at home. I know how many furniture I have right now, how many cars I have, how many properties I have. And that's the same thing. The entities that today hold the State Treasury's property entrusted with the management, let them show how many of them are, with a focus on their use for housing purposes. So we point out the administrative boundaries of cities or local plans or studies that are being transferred to housing. So we don't want, in short, any other terrain, we show you what we have first. Then it's Art. 13, Art. 15, Art. 20 of this law, I encourage you to read, say explicitly that the entity, i.e. the President of the National Property Resource, which - as indicated - must be an entity consisting of experts who know the real estate market, says this: from this list XYZ I choose the properties I would like to get. And only as he points out with his finger - this, this and this property - after analysing the economic conditions, location conditions, the conditions of the potential clientele, i.e. buyers, are present to the entity that collected these properties to pass on these properties. So there is nothing from the vending machine that will in any way take away from local governments that have real estate for perpetual use, or from these three entities, I am talking about the State Forests, the Agricultural Property Agency or the National Agricultural Support Centre, from September 1st will be the name, and the Military Property Agency. This formula is clearly written. Secondly, just as you put the property into the resource, which I say doesn't happen from the vending machine, you can take it out the same way. There's no formula at this point that's gonna cause that once you put it in, you're not gonna take it out, and everything you show us, we're gonna take it away. Here is the logical point. This is also to be a good tool for efficient asset management when it comes to building housing. There were also questions about the location. Ladies and gentlemen, as it happens, if we look only at the administrative boundaries of the cities, it's 350,000. ha, as far as the State Forests are concerned, and more than 50,000. ha agricultural real estate is within the administrative boundaries of cities. And now that we have this potential at this stage of knowledge, I think it's definitely from this potential, of those over 400,000. ha we will choose several dozen hectares, which will be suitable in the first approach to localization - I note, in a good place - these housing investments. Because the essence of this program is not to build on the outskirts that we build on a good case today without communication, without access to the necessary infrastructure etc. There was a question about using these properties to build apartments. We clearly point out that on those properties that will be transferred to the resource, we will also want to build accompanying infrastructure, i.e. basic media, which, for example. There isn't any today. Often there is no such correlation despite existing local plans for housing and it turns out that the so-called. Water pipe or sewer pipe doesn't work. These issues will also be pointed out in this formula. One of the information that was duplicated here, which I would like to correct, was information on the increase in the number of apartments per rent. As I'm pointing out, this rental is defined here - what is an apartment for rent, what is an apartment for rent with an option to access property. So we're balancing this market. Of course, we are looking at the labour market because people are today, so to speak, mobile and often moving from the city of X to the city of Y. We want the housing portfolio to be as wide as possible for everyone. The next thing you know, it's the rent thing. As mentioned here, the regulation of the Council of Ministers will determine the amount of rent depending on the location, whether it is a voivodeship city, whether it is a metropolitan area or a capital city or a district. We indicate maximum rent barriers - maximum rents which must not be exceeded and for which the entity will be cleared if it decides to exceed them, by imposing an administrative penalty which constitutes the revenue of the State Treasury and not the legal person. And these rents are kept. The example here is the city of Pomerania. This rent, as we look at, would be about 500 PLN according to our calculations. That, I think, for at least 50 meters apartment isn't rent, so to speak, sounded. Another question, too, was the question of the developer, his possible bankruptcy. We have all kinds of safeguards that speak directly of it. If there is an entity today who reports bankruptcy, then his successor enters into his shoes, in full, with all kinds of sharpenings, with all kinds of promises he made, so that there are no such situations that we have often observed that the building entity is falling, and then people are either left without anything, or are often doomed to lose property that they have purchased for hard-earned money. There were questions about TBS. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a matter of communication. Today, this programme does not apply to rent and social housing. The Social Construction Society, TBS, and market construction should complement each other, each of which will be supplemented. Moreover, I think, pointing to this mechanism, that the normal rent and the ability to sell to those who today have the credit capacity or have the money in their socks, will not create all kinds of so-called. Graduation of people - the better, the worse, the richer, the poorer, are to live separately. There's full cooperation here at the moment. Questions about the transfer of the land of companies - there is no provision that companies, today state, which are subject to the Commercial Companies Code, so they have to be profit-oriented, are to give something for free. There is a rule that they can pass without a tender, but at the market price of these properties, so there is no so-called at the moment. milking companies for housing purposes. Another thing about self-government. It's a similar situation. If you look at the involvement of local governments, it's very big. There was a charge that the project was not consulted. Ladies and gentlemen, a project called: National Resource Act The property had previously been named: the Law on the Land Fund of the Treasury. It's the same thing. After the changes, after comments he evolved, but evolved in the right direction so that, in short, the gradation of these mechanisms was appropriate and also gave the guarantee of its implementation. So I'm just going to say, this is the mechanism right now. The market, not controlled by the state, because that's not what we're after. In no way are we going to build this if we're taking over any manual control, it's just creating tools. Art. 52 of this bill will allow me to open at this point, because someone asked for funding. There is also the possibility of financing revitalization. We've got it listed in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, when the property may be transferred free of charge to the local government unit or brought as an import to the special purpose vehicle. And there are a number of cases that at this point also make it possible to finance revitalization and many other activities. [[That's where the land is.]] Yeah, you can bring the land as a fetch, but you can bring it at the same time. These land should be traded on social housing, social housing purposes if the National Property Resources have sufficient resources. With regard to the impact assessment of regulation and budget, 200 million PLN is foreseen in this budgetary perspective, as is also the case in the Act, in the impact assessment included: 25 million - the first year, the next year - 125 million and 50. The next point is that after four years it is really supposed to be self-playing at this point. It's supposed to be self-playing. That is what this model is for, in short, expert, to be a well-oiled machine, which will effectively manage the property of the State Treasury, while at the same time fulfilling the objectives we are talking about. That's the last line. There was also a case concerning division and consolidation. Here it is, ladies and gentlemen, I think, the following thing. Today we have a lot of good land that they have, let's say, a few acres. No one logically approaches as it is in the West. I had the pleasure of being in several European countries before I started working here, and I watched this model. It is, say, 10 ha, local government or legal entities that target this area, determine communication, arm high-performance media and display ready-made wires and then place these plots for sale, while indicating that from the point of view of inclusion, for example. the new neighborhood to the city will not be a problem. This is also how we want to look at this aspect, so that at this point we can make the right use of resources, split and merge real estate, so that then we don't have to fall into narrow throats, e.g. various types of derogations, inability to build sewerage, communication, etc., etc. So I think that at this point the High House will make a decision and the project will be addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure so that its role can be presented in detail. One last thing. There were also issues concerning the cities that are taking part in the pilot project today. I would like to point out that in the pilot project, so without the new legal instrument implemented by BGKN, we have at this moment more than 27 agreements with different local authorities and these are local authorities - as one of the parliamentarians asked here - regardless of the option from which a local governmentman, so to speak, exercises power. So the interest in specific cities, including these big cities, is very high. I hope that both the pilot project and the second step will give us the expected effect. We're not focusing on specific purposes, specific numbers. As I mentioned, this is to be one system element until the entire market economy is exhausted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I tried not to take into account any political, historical themes, references to what was happening in this House, otherwise: how the previous teams dealt with government programs. I have an irrefutable impression - forgive me, Member - that, above all, the project has not been understood. Because these arguments, which were raised here by the club, you raised on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, show that the project records were not understood. I patiently endure all these elements that relate to the issue of supervisory boards, to current conflicts, to political warfare. I have always been convinced here that housing will not be part of a political fight, Madam President. I had this idea. Therefore, when in 2010 the opposition together from this tribune of the Sejm in the team urged the rulers, i.e. the Civic Platform, to prepare the National Housing Programme, to prepare the National Housing Programme, to prepare the National Housing Programme, to introduce it to the High House and to implement it in order to eliminate the housing deficit, we did not pay attention to the fact that the Platform and PSL would do so. We have not noticed that the National Housing Programme requests Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the Democratic Left Alliance, yet one of the clubs - I no longer recall its name - or groups of Members. Today, it seems that the current political struggle also uses the programme and the debate on housing to do so. I can't face it personally. I am fully convinced that this is completely not understood by those who listen to us. I listened to the words of the representative of the Modern Mr Meysztowicz, listened to the words of the representative of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and other clubs... [[Kukiza.]] ...Kukiz Club, all the clubs and MPs who played here. And I'm really surprised that you're handling things this way. But I am also convinced that this is an affirmed surprise and this situation is also confirmed by those who follow our debate and debate today. For the sake of clarity, I would like to remind you that if anyone does not remember that MdM, the residence programme for young people, was adopted here against the resistance of the High House, replaced the family programme with its own. It resulted in the elimination of the VAT difference of PLN 1 billion, which was intended for residential construction. He introduced aid for those who use the purchase of apartments produced by developers only in about 70 or a maximum of 100 powiats in Poland, because there developers build. All those who want to realize their dream of living in other parts of Poland have been completely forgotten. It was the decision of the Civic Platform, the decision of the majority club, the PO-PSL coalition, that MdM was established until 2018. So I'm sorry, I don't allow such an argument that Law and Justice are eliminating MdM. [[You can continue like a good one.]] Again, we've prepared projects to replace him. I answer to Professor Hrynkiewicz. Professor, you're asking for the support of those who want their own strength in their share to realize the dream of their apartment. It's an individual housing account. This is a project that is in preparation and will be submitted to the High House. He will contain records that can be compared to the operation of the building counters, [[Applause]] That works in the West. This is one of those projects that are part of the National Housing Programme. But support for those who dream of their own home is just the possibility of buying real estate - no one said that it wasn't for property, but it was about collateral, because that's what was asked here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never referred to this, and today I will say it from the Seym Tribune. The reason why this process takes so long, the reason why - what the predecessors said here, Mr Meysztowicz - the project has already been on the pages, existed in the area of public debate, was consulted and has not happened for a long time... There's been a lot going on. The State Treasury's real estate security mechanisms were introduced because it was considered that at the level of 2016 the State Treasury's real estate was not fully secured. And as far as our experts, as far as my colleagues were able to include these security provisions in the project, so far as they are present in this project. One more thing. Minister Tomasz Żuchowski spoke here about the size of the property of the State Treasury, among others. forests, in administrative areas of cities. I think the grandmother is - I'm sorry for the term from this place - if on the one hand we are talking about apartments, and on the other hand we are being told that we want to privatize forests. Does the person who raises this argument know that 70,000. ha, which are in the resources of the State Forests, unwooded, unforested, is within the administrative boundaries of the cities? Has anyone pointed out that there is a record in the draft of this law that clearly states: if a property is intended for housing or a study in the local plan, then it is possible to take over such property? Does anyone - an architect, a planner, who is also here in the room - imagine that the zoning plan includes housing in the forest, in the forest? Ladies and gentlemen, please revise this proposal to reject the project at first reading. If we are to argue on the arguments, if we are to produce a product from this that will allow us to partially - because I am a moderate pessimist, that is my rule, the motto of life - to satisfy the hunger for housing, then it is simply worth not condemning this debate to the fate of the debate only and exclusively political: a fierce, often fierce one, often one which should not be here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u221	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns one of the provisions of this law, which refers to the written task to be carried out by the National Property Resources. Well, I'm thinking of doing activities that promote innovative solutions in the areas of housing, real estate, construction, planning and spatial planning and revitalization. And I ask: Will this happen again, that to popularize all these upper-floor activities will be chosen the best of the best foundations known to all of us, which carry out such tasks with great momentum, because it begins with prevention of breast and cervix cancer, through the organization of trainings called: The European Union's funds, which is how much, to whom and for what? - interesting nomen omen title - and ends with training entitled: Improving communication processes in the Polish justice system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u223	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 42 hours 17 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on conditions of employment in health care (print No 1648). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Tomasz Dybek to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that statistically, all of us sitting here listening to us Poles, Members, will die five years earlier than our colleagues in Western Europe? Do you know that we're gonna die in scratchy, ugly, outdated hospitals, that we're gonna be feeding them inedible mush, that we're gonna be, worst of all, asking someone to come and help us, to ease the pain, to give us a cup of water, because we're gonna run out of medical personnel? We'll wait months and years for the bed, for the examination, for the surgery. Sounds grotesque, too bright, unbelievable? Maybe for us, that's for healthy people sitting here, yes, but that's how a person who's leaving this world who's suffering. Then everything becomes black and white. Contrary to appearances, this is not the hardest for the patient himself. His helpless family and friends suffer most, seeing the conditions in which a loved one makes his last days. And family, and friends rhetorically ask: Why? 20 years of free Poland, the 14th year of our membership in the European Union began. Things have changed. We have better roads, better shops, better services and better homes. We're richer, better dressed. We've come close to pictures from American movies, where everything is colorful, tastes better and gives you the joy of life. But when sickness comes, when painful times of suffering grow, painful truth comes. It's not like an American movie anymore. We can't count on a single sick room, we can't count on the diagnostics of the state-of-the-art equipment, even when it's available. We can't count on a smiling, multiplayer team of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and paramedics taking care of us and letting us know that it's just us that we're the most important at this point. Advancement in medicine goes at a tremendous rate. Progress in Polish medicine is dragged by snails and is forced by peer pressure: scientists, medical professionals and citizens. Since 2004, they have seen what Polish medicine can look like when they travel abroad, but the essence is slow progress without a strategic vision. Who's gonna take responsibility for all this? Ladies and gentlemen! It all sounds very sad and sounds so for many years. Why, then, has it not been ensured for such a long time that the most important sphere of life, the health sphere, is well-maintained, thoughtful, prioritised? Is this the result of the incompetence of the authorities, or is it their arrogance? Is this the result of citizens' incompetence or weaknesses in the medical environment? Today, after many conversations, actions, meetings, reflections, we can say with great certainty that this is the result of each of these factors in turn, with the greatest emphasis on the incompetence and arrogance of the authorities, the successive governments, the people who are responsible for the skeleton and the structure of the space in which we live, the politicians. I will refer to each of these factors in my statement. Our latest history has been dominated for a long time by communism, restriction, regulation, propaganda, censorship. In 1989, after the change in the system, the door opened, which after so many years of limitations and the only truth we do not know where it leads. There were no patterns, and ideas that seemed good didn't come into force. The fact that Poles did not know what to expect from health care was used to queues, looking for a doctor, when there was a serious illness, avoiding the system to get to the hospital was exploited. And to a large extent, that's how it's been left behind. It's been almost 30 years, and we see the same problems. Many in the mentality of us, Poles, changed after 2004, when we started to travel for bread mass, to work for the countries of the European Union. We have seen how health care can look like, we have seen that it can be without queues, that hospitals are beautiful, adapted to the goal they are supposed to meet - these are places where we respect intimacy, where doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, diagnostics, radiologists take us with a smile, help us, translate, have time for us, where we do not get lost in the system, knowing what to do next, where everything is transparent and simple. We've come to the conclusion that it might be different, that it's possible that it should be like this with us. It should, but still, almost 30 years, it's not. We didn't take the chance, but at least we know we want change for the better. In recent surveys Poles are clearly telling you, politicians, that they want change. According to the CBOS survey, 74% citizens believe that Polish health care does not meet their expectations, is dissatisfied with it. 70% believes that it is impossible to perform all, and without problems, diagnostic tests, and almost 90% Sees that the queues to specialists are huge, long and that it is very difficult to get to them for help. At the same time, Poles believe that health professionals are competent, know what they are doing. Therefore, citizens do not blame health workers for the shortcomings of the system, which the next governments were cynically trying to pass on to us workers. Interestingly, in a recent study carried out by Polish Employers as much as 77% Poles believe that the expenditure on health protection is too low for it to function satisfactorily. Poles see that the system is grossly underfunded. As many as 90% of Poles believe that more money for health care should come from public funds. Quote from the CBOS report: Over the last 2 years, the percentage of respondents has decreased quite clearly, believing that problems with availability and quality of benefits under general health insurance are mainly due to inadequate distribution of health funds, from 42 to 28%, while those who believe that these difficulties are due only to too little expenditure on health care - from 12 to 17. So what else do you need, honourable politicians, members of the government, honourable Prime Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, to do what the citizens expect? Citizens are telling you clearly that health expenditure is low. If you care about us, your constituents, then you have a clear signal that we, citizens, want these changes, radical changes and felt changes. We cannot continue to be blinded by the introduction of apparent changes, we do not want to see the rulers who are throwing themselves in the wrong direction, because they do not know what to do with it. We have competent health experts, we have competent patients and their representatives, we have competent medical staff, competent managers, employers, who unanimously, consistently say what should be done and how should be done. Listen to us. It is increasingly the patients who ask for changes and give concrete solutions, such as those submitted by 50 patient organisations on 26 June in the medical room, patients who do not need to know about the system, who do not have to, or should not even enter, its meansders. Patients want to heal quickly and get back to normal life as soon as possible. And this is one of the most experienced patients, because cancer sufferers, are alarmed that half of the drugs recommended by scientific societies in the world as a standard of treatment for specific cancers is not available or refunded in Poland, more than half of these medicines. We have great specialists, valued in the world, with great knowledge, who cure outdated methods or spread their hands because they don't have money for drugs. Is this what a modern country is supposed to look like? Both patients and employers and workers speak with one voice, have common calls for health care to be repaired and increased funding. In the last few years, it has been the doctors who have decided to take on their shoulders an attempt to convince you politicians to change health care. A big event took place two years ago when young doctors joined the residents' agreement and began to run social, media campaigns, to inform citizens, as it really is, they began to denounce false and harmful opinions circulating in society, they went to citizens and patients. Young doctors with physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, paramedics, nurses, radiation technicians, psychologists and pharmacists, nutritionists and speech therapists have established the Medical Profession Agreement, which I have the honour of representing here today. ♪ And great ♪ Thank you for this, because you needed such an impulse, you had to unite health workers to bury the deep argument quoted at the beginning and misrepresented about the weaknesses of the environment. Today, all medical professions stand in one line, united in one agreement. We stand together stronger because we're the same problems. Today, medical workers came to Warsaw to protest once again against the marginalisation of Polish health services, against the treatment of us unworthy, against the depreciation of our professions. Protest on behalf of our patients and ours. These workers should be here today... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u225	You're welcome to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u226	These workers should be here, but they weren't allowed into the gallery in the Sejm meeting room. They're in front of the Sejm. And I ask that you go out and talk to them after the meeting. [[Applause]] You'll hear what everyday work looks like. You will hear the voice of medical rescuers fighting for human life in the streets, in homes, in shops for three days in a row. They're fighting for every minute of sleep to leave for the beep in a minute. And they do it for 1900 PLN per hand. They work 300 hours a month to support their family, pay their bills. Is this normal treatment of human labor, working with a sick person? You will hear the voice of laboratory diagnostics and electroradiology technicians, without which the work of the healing team would practically go back to prehistory, without which the concept of diagnosis and therapy would not be right. These diaphragms, technicians are being brought to the test tube mixers or taking pictures today. Unappreciated, marginalized, earning the lowest national as if someone didn't understand that without their expertise, the entire diagnostic and medical process wouldn't make sense. You will hear physiotherapists and rehabilitators without whom putting a man on his feet after a long hospitalization would be a dream. Rehabilitation reduces the patient's time in the ward and thus reduces the cost of living in the hospital. How many physiotherapists use the help of physiotherapists? Not much. Why? Because they don't want to generate extra costs because contract funds aren't enough for basic treatment anyway. The rulers forget that there are three treatments: surgery, pharmacology and physiotherapy, which is not available. After 5 years of hard studies, 6,000. hours of physiotherapy masters are offered a minimum salary of 2400 PLN gross. Is this what Polish health care is supposed to look like? You'll hear the voice of psychologists who are completely unseen by the system. Not only do they earn unworthy, but often they can't get a job at all, because the system doesn't predict that in human illness apart from physicals it's also important to be psyched that without psychological support all even tedious therapy can go to waste, because the patient will surrender, he will still feel sick. You will hear logopeds, specialists who are virtually no longer in hospitals, generally considered to be dealing only with pronunciation defects, while they have powerful tools and should be members of medical teams dealing with e.g. Reconnaissance of people after strokes, accidents that have lost their ability to speak, verbal communication with the world. They teach the sick to swallow again, breathe, eat, too, and perhaps above all, children with cerebral palsy, autism or premature babies. And the system doesn't see them at all, it doesn't see how important a link in the healing team should be the logofeds. If they're already working, it's the lowest national. You will hear the voice of dieticians, other specialists completely expelled from the orbit of public health institutions. In an age of obesity epidemic, eating disorders, the system does not anticipate their work. Nutritional treatment of hospitalized patients is often the key to successful recovery. Look at the hospital reinforcements. It's already a legend. Those inedible mush I was talking about at first, it's not the dieticians' fault. They just don't exist. If you already hire a dietist in a public facility, you don't give him the tools to do his job. Frustration, underappreciation, minimum wage work and part of the job, this is how nutritionists are treated in Poland. You will hear the voice of clinical pharmacists brought into the role of people who issue packaging with drugs, mixing powders and liquids. The voice of people who build an era of modern therapy, advise the healing team, know the most about molecules. They all have the same problems: underappreciation, unworthy, low salaries, which are often minimum salaries. Listening to nurses and nurses, you'll find that because of a huge shortage of staff, they don't know what to put their hands in. They run from patient to patient all night, all day long, and after work at the hospital, they go to another job at the clinic because they get less than 2,000 for such hard work. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Do you realize that in Europe and in the OECD countries, the recommended number of nurses and midwives per 10,000. The population is 90, in the richest countries of the European Union - 170 and in Poland - 50? Next year, the retirement age will reach 1/3 of our nurses and midwives, about 80,000. persons. Soon there will be no one to serve a cup of water to our patients, let alone complex nursing procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a drama. It's a world-wide drama. We're at the last rankings for the number of people employed as nurses and nurses. It's not better with doctors. For 10,000. The population in the European Union is 44 doctors, in the OECD countries - 34, in Poland - only 22 doctors. In 2035, despite the increase in doctoral admissions, the number of doctors will still decrease, as the average age of doctors is almost 55 years. If it weren't for retired workers, the queues would have doubled today. Doctors fighting for our lives and health literally die on duty, as in the case of a Dr. Whitegard anesthesiologist. They die of endless shifts that often last four or five days in a row. The directors and managers of medical facilities are calling and begging the doctor to take a job with them because there's no one to treat them. Medical studies are not chosen by people with the best SATs, because what is the perspective of working in Poland? A young doctor earns in Poland from PLN 2200 to PLN 2500 per hand, EUR 500. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a young doctor in Poland earns 14 PLN per hour - 14 PLN per hour to save human life. And are you surprised that young doctors, young nurses, rescuers, physiotherapists, diaphragm, psychologists, pharmacists, speech counselors or nutritionists are leaving? It's natural, isn't it? They're intelligent, they're proficient, they're able to learn hard work, they're fearless, they're speaking languages. How can they not leave when their own homeland treats them worse than they imagined? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we're training staff for foreign countries, for Germans, English, Norwegians, we're spending billions of dollars. The next governments simply want to produce the right number of pieces without looking at the quality, and when they finish their studies, they are offered drastic working conditions and totally unworthy salaries. It is the pathetic low salaries that are the narrow throats of the system. Is that so hard to understand? That is why, thanks to the various medical workers who have the same problem, the Medical Profession Agreement, an agreement supported by patients and employers has been created. The only opponent remains the government. And it's completely incomprehensible to us, and it's also incomprehensible for economic reasons. I will tell you about this in the last two arguments regarding the collapse in health care, which I outlined in the beginning, i.e. the incompetence and arrogance of power. Ladies and gentlemen, I could start with the famous text: for the last eight years... but I won't start. Why? I would have to change this password to: for the past 28 years, because since 1989, when it had to be thought on a macro scale, no government has dealt with a comprehensive health care system. Therefore, despite perhaps bitter words, this appeal is rather a request and a positive stimulus for the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and President Jarosław Kaczyński. You have the chance to be the first government in the history of Poland, which can change the face of Polish medicine. We're serious about this. We believe that the arguments that we have already made hundreds of times will reach your consciousness, and these arguments are very much. Here I address Prime Minister Morawiecki and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. It is completely incomprehensible to us why economists who are the highest in the hierarchy of the state, who are finance ministers, are completely foreign to the concept of health economics. We've had a lot of conversations, including recently at the Ministry of Finance, and the conclusions are alarming. Politicians, and even worse, economists, continue to view health care as a bottomless bag that is not worth adding money to. They do not understand that health care is a long-term investment. There are many examples, but please note one thing: no modern country, no competent finance minister or prime minister is taking up economic planning, the economics of your country without planning in the field of health economics. How does Prime Minister Morawiecki want to pursue his great plan without investing in social capital, without investing in the potential of healthy citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, as Poland, we spend the least public money on health protection. The country's health expenditure was taken into account for the percentage of gross domestic product. Poland is almost the last place. We only spend 4.5% GDP for health, the average in the European Union is 8% GDP and Western countries spend between 9 and 11% their GDP. I say: their GDP, because 1% of their GDP is many times more than our 1%. And yet we still, even looking through interest, spend the least. It is a global shame, it is completely incomprehensible, complete ignorance and total lack of understanding of the economics of health. Because of the gross underfunding of the queue system in our country, they are extremely large. According to official data, a woman with breast cancer has to wait 37 weeks for a definitive diagnosis. Waiting for an MRI in case of suspected brain cancer is 32 weeks. A mother with her child who is suspected of having heart disease will have to wait for an appointment with a specialist for more than four months. I'm not talking about waiting for hip endoprosthesis to be implanted or cataracts to be removed that are counted in years. All of this makes our country lose huge funds, even if it is purely economical. To go to a doctor or to rehab, you have to stand in line and take a leave of absence. In the case of the disease, the entire diagnosis is extended so much that Poland spends as much as 10 billion PLN per year on sick leave. According to the analysis of independent economists, indirect costs, i.e. loss of income, lack of productivity of workers, replacements, teaching new workers is up to PLN 80 billion a year of losses for the state budget. And it's all because of the underfunding of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is a big company. So let's see how typical companies do. It turns out that large corporations in Poland have introduced resolution packages in case of sick leave by buying health packages in private institutions so that their employees do not wait in queues, provide their employees with comfortable working conditions, help in finding babysitters and save an average of 30%. They invested and saved much more because their workers were less likely to go on sick leave. On a national scale, this would be between PLN 3 and PLN 24 billion per year. Investing in health protection, improving its state are multi-billion-dollar savings in the future and a healthy society, which further improves and enriches the economy. These examples can be multiplied. The question remains open. Why don't economists in charge know about this? Why does he continue to repent that health care is a bottomless sack? Even if we cannot determine how much money is needed and how to distribute it, let's look at the countries that have succeeded: Holland, Germany, France - they spend from 9% to 11% GDP for health. Looking at the spending of wealthy countries, it seems that the optimal interest rate is just 8.10% GDP. At that time, investing this money was in the form of life expectancy in health, productivity at work or even satisfaction in life and influenced the election decisions, because it is probably for you politicians that is the most important thing. Incompetence, because that's how we understand the embarrassing lack of knowledge, you can always make up for it. Just ask, listen to the sound of the wise people our country has many. But there is something worse than incompetence - this is the last point that I will talk about today - this is the arrogance of power. Ladies and gentlemen, despite various political sympathies, whether someone supported the Law and Justice or not, it was from the mouth of the representatives of the state of the party, the Law and Justice that Poles could hear in their speeches, pre-election slogans and just after taking over power that you spoke a little bit more about health protection than usual. President Kaczyński, referring to doctors, said: I want to emphasize strongly, the doctor should earn very well. Well, when it comes to young people and very good about those experienced people who are already doctors in the whole sense of the word. I know that because it's a very difficult, very responsible profession to prepare for for for a very long time. And we respect that. Today doctors, especially young ones, don't even make average money. Prime Minister Beata Szydło has repeatedly said that health workers must earn very well because it is a difficult and responsible job. In her exposé she said: I fully appreciate the role of doctors and I am convinced that they should be highly and highly rewarded. I also fully appreciate the importance of the work of nurses, paramedics and other health professionals whose income is too low today. And how does that apply to the government's offer to pay in health care? How does this apply to the maximum wage index of 1.27 national average for specialist doctors with over 20 national averages for employees of State Treasury companies in your law? Is that the right hierarchy? Do you value the health of Poles and people who fight for it every day? It was no different with the nomination for the Minister of Health. The medical community was hopeful when, after the victory of the Law and Justice, the name came up: Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł as a candidate for the Minister of Health. Was that a conscious choice? Did the Prime Minister know the Minister before? Did she know his views and activities so far? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, this civic project that we are currently discussing, has written in a large part no one else, like Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł. Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł wrote this bill. I'll explain. Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł has been President of the General Medical Chamber for many years, has been in the medical administration for 20 years and has been saying exactly what we are saying now. It was Minister Radziwił who signed the appeals at the General Medical Council that an indicator of 2 and 3 national averages should be introduced immediately for young doctors and specialists, respectively, in order to restore social justice, prestige to this profession and encourage people to take up this difficult profession. A week before the Minister of Health, Dr. Radziwiłł said that 6% The GDP of public health expenditures must be implemented in a maximum of 3 years. If the Czechs succeeded, why should we, Poles, fail? It was Minister Radziwiłł who in his column encouraged him to immediately abandon his job in primary health care if there were no radical increases. At the time of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł became a politician, not a doctor, unfortunately. He turned into a pejorative policy, turned away from the medical society and from Polish patients. Minister! You've met many times with young doctors, young representatives of physiotherapy, nursing. Now look them in the eye. What example do you set for these young people? What credibility as a politician do you have in the eyes of Poles? Did the Prime Minister deliberately appoint a minister of the Lord, a man who was endowed with great trust in the environment, just to drag our rebellion and our protests through to deceive us, that what you said before the elections would really come into force? Ladies and gentlemen, we, medical personnel, have engaged in the fight against hypocrisy, populism, demagogy and fraud in health policy. With our own hands, we have collected a quarter of a million signatures under the citizens' bill on employment conditions in health care. We collected a quarter of a million signatures without the help of any political party, no party structures. We personally talked to Poles who unanimously supported us because they understand that people saving their lives must have decent working conditions, that this is one of the elements of the health reform that should be started from. That's the law to begin with. Because without HR policy, restoring peace, bringing a sense of social justice, health care will never get back on its feet. Our bill appreciates all health workers. Not selectively, as the Ministry of Health did. Our bill gives a real improvement to the situation of employees, which our patients will feel. Our project is - I remind you - a reproduction of what you know well, what Minister Radziwiłł said, because the highest ratio is the one for which Minister Radziwił fought for all these years. Law and Justice quickly passed a law that did not satisfy anyone in 36 hours. Neither employers, because they have no source of funding, nor employees, because it does not give real improvement, nor patients, because it is the consolidation of poverty in health care. That is why this citizens' project has a chance to be a really good change and a vote on this project will show the true intentions of the government. Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Mr. President! Despite the bitter words, we ask you for the last time. We would like to ask you to change the face of medicine in Poland: firstly, to adopt this citizens' bill, under which a quarter of a million Poles signed, secondly, to create a post-political team, which will prepare a law in a maximum of three months to increase health expenditure to the level that most European Union countries have set - 9% GDP over 10 years, while, as Minister Radziwił once proposed, 6,8% GDP up to a maximum of 3 years. It's going to be a civilization leap, it's planning a development policy based on health economics. Thirdly, the establishment of a post-political team of experts, which will prepare a project of great reform based on analysis, facts, expertise and not on populism and demagogy until the end of the term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! We medical personnel have had enough. We're tired, humiliated and sad. The burnout in our competitions is extremely high - up to 60% employees after 10 years of work. We have already taken all possible diplomatic, peaceful steps to bring about the changes we are talking about. We realize that there are three ways to make these changes: either we convince politicians, we show facts that are undeniable, and politicians just do what they are supposed to do - from that we started and we had, we still hope that it will be effective and politicians will do what they have to do. The second possibility is the social attitude that will give politicians confidence that the poll posts will increase after these changes, the social attitude that will clearly tell politicians that these changes are needed. But what are the indicators to convince you? What indicators? 100% ? After all, we quote the study: more than 70% Poles think they want change, 90% Poles are dissatisfied because they see underfunding for health care, and they also want change. So what else do you need? The third option we wanted to avoid, which medical workers never want to put into practice and treat as a last resort, is force pressure, social unrest. And I have to tell you that every time we meet politicians, we get pushed onto these tracks. In fact, we are simply suggesting that without a strike, there will be no real changes in health care. We don't want that. We are to treat and the state is to ensure health security for citizens. But if reasonable and wise proposals, peaceful conversations, social actions do nothing, and politicians simply suggest that there should be a strike, that we should leave work and then something will change, otherwise health protection will never be a priority, then, ladies and gentlemen, remember those words when it comes to it. For we give politicians and government to Prime Minister Beata Szydło by the end of September to meet these three conditions that we have put in place, which will give Poles health safety and revolutionise Polish health protection. By the end of September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No Let me remind you: the adoption of a citizens' bill, under which a quarter of a million Poles signed. Secondly, the creation of a post-political team, which will prepare a law in a maximum of 3 months regulating the increase in health expenditures to the level which has been set by most European Union countries - 9% GDP in 10 years, and I will emphasise once again, just like Mr Konstanty Radziwiwiłł - quickly, efficiently, 6.8% GDP over 3 years. The Minister says the Minister has. The creation of this team overseeing by experts, citizens. Thirdly, the establishment of a trans-political team of experts, which will prepare by the end of the term of office a project of great reform based on analysis, facts and expertise. The establishment of the team by the end of September and the financing of its work so that the most outstanding experts can be invited. These three demands must be met. They must be fulfilled by the end of September 2017. If these demands are not met by then, from 2 October at the headquarters of the National Trade Union Doctors will start a strike, a hunger strike of health workers, mainly young doctors, physiotherapists and representatives of other medical professions, and we will transform the Medical Profession Agreement into a protest committee that will start preparing for the biggest protest that Polish health protection has seen. Ladies and gentlemen! Without our work and dedication, millions of Polish patients will not receive our help daily. Perhaps there will be very bad health consequences. Maybe the lines in the hospitals will go out on the streets, there will be no staff in the hospitals, no clinics. And we, medical staff, apologize to all Poles for this. Excuse us. We don't want that. But if this is to get the government to act in the interest of Polish health and patient protection, if that's what politicians want, then we will do it for the good of everyone, for our children and grandchildren. They're gonna hang dogs on us, burden us, blame us for everything. However, if only our rebellion and paralyzed health care are to produce long-term effects for all Poles, then we are ready to bear this humiliation, because people matter, not election slogans. And if these tragic situations arise, then come to Prime Minister Szydło, to the politicians, because they are and will be responsible. We can't do this anymore. We can't do this anymore. We've done everything we can do. There are only political decisions left, and it will be the politicians who will be accountable for that. We, the so-called. white staff, we respect and understand Polish patients, our patients, therefore the Medical Profession Agreement will do everything to finally have a Polish patient, a Polish health care worker treated with dignity, even if it requires extra-standard sacrifices from us. The decision is yours, the politicians, the government. We want and expect solutions and concrete solutions. The first is the adoption of this law, because medical staff and all Poles deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Applicants! I do not share most of the opinions that you have made, but the subject of my speech is the citizens' proposal for a law on conditions of employment in health care, Parliamentary Printing No 1648, and I will refer to this as the subject of our debate today. The project lists those forms of employment and occupations, which include a proposal for a change in the level of employment. The employment rate of the various professional groups was adopted in the draft law according to the labour rate - I do not really understand what that means - from three coefficients to one, and for those who do not require secondary education, the remuneration rate is set at 0.75. According to the draft, the minimum basic salary will be the product of the basic amount and the labour factor included in the Act. The basic amount used in the Act shall be the average remuneration within the meaning of Article. 1 point 3a of the Act on minimum remuneration in the year preceding the establishment of the lowest remuneration. It is worth noting that the average salary in June 2017 according to the Central Statistical Office amounted to PLN 4508,08. The draft law states that if a worker does not receive a remuneration of the amount specified by the law, the medical practitioner is to increase his salary to the minimum within 3 years, starting in July 2017, at 33,33% the amount which is the difference between the lowest basic salary and the remuneration which the employee is entitled to receive under that law. However, the bill has significant shortcomings, contains inaccuracies, lack of precision in defining professions and many key concepts. In the law there is no definition of the concept of labour factor, which is crucial for determining the amount of benefits. There is no reference in the draft to salaries in other non-medical professions, no reference to the scale of expenditure from public funds and from employers' health measures. In the project there is also no reference to the median salary, which is 2800 PLN, i.e. the salary most frequently paid in Poland in 2017, there are no comparisons with other professions with similar level of education and qualification requirements. The project does not contain an assessment of the financial consequences of the implementation of the Law, does not indicate the sources of financing for its implementation costs. The title of the Act - on employment conditions in health care - is very broad. However, the text of the Act itself concerns one of the conditions of employment, in the lowest declaration and in fact a very high remuneration. No one is questioning the need for changes in the pay system in Poland, including compensation in the health care system. I myself wrote books on this subject and have many publications, where I show that wages in Poland are on average 3 and 4 times lower than in the developed countries of the European Union. I would also like to point out that there has been a very tedious process of raising wages. However, it cannot grow suddenly and only for some groups. And now my request after reading this law, after a thorough study of the justification - I will not refer to it because my time is running out here - is as follows: the financial consequences should be assessed by the Minister of Finance before proceeding in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u229	Thank you. Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicants! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, it is my pleasure to refer to the complex citizens' bill. I would like to address three points. The first concerns the time, the date we are discussing here today in the context of this project. Well, I think you all know very well that it was not so long ago passed on a government project, which had already been submitted at the time when there was also a civic project in the Sejm. Members of the Sejm Committee on Health then requested to proceed together. It was a good time and a good time to discuss both employees' salaries and the whole system, about everything that our applicant was talking about here. It was that time. On the other hand, the government chose another way: quickly, in a hurry. I think a new law has been passed without real data, too. As a result, I have great doubt. Why are we talking about this civic project today? What will be the future of this project? 'Cause the road's really closed. The second element associated with time is also what the applicant said, namely, see: here are only a few people who signed this application, the rest is across the street because they were not allowed in, because this is the current order of the marshal. Should this be the debate on an important systemic solution not only to pay, but also, I repeat, to the whole health system? The second substance we also discussed at the Health Committee meeting, but this is also highlighted here by our applicant. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we know that we have an ageing society, there are new requirements and needs, and undoubtedly the young staff providing the entire health care system is extremely needed at this point. We must take care not only of doctors, but also of all medical personnel who will take care of sick people or elderly people. We need to build them a whole path of development, a career, motivate them, support them, so they want to work here. Undoubtedly, remuneration is one such element. That's why I listened to what you said about the Minister of Health, Minister Konstanty Radziwielł. We know that he is a doctor, that he worked in the local government for many years and that this is exactly what he had in mind. Therefore, we very much regret the fact that they have not been implemented. And the third element: finance, undoubtedly extremely important, because without increased funding in health care, we will not continue. Expenditure is increasing and will increase, for example, in relation to an ageing society. We have to talk about it. We must also talk about the fact that medicine is becoming more expensive because it is becoming more innovative. We are pleased that this is the case, but also for this reason we need to plan the whole system of health funding for many years ahead. Therefore, the talks with the Minister of Health himself in my opinion are unfortunately insufficient. There is a great role of government here and a great need for the Minister of Finance to understand. That is why I think we should raise and emphasize this topic strongly. Therefore, the position of the Civic Platform which I represent here is that the project, despite the previously adopted government project, should be addressed again to the Committee on Health, but when the Committee on Health will sit together with the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u231	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft employment conditions law in health care. The citizens' project is a response to a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Health a few months ago on minimum wages in health care, a project strongly criticised by the medical community. It is difficult to disagree with this criticism, bearing in mind the drasticly poor situation of medical personnel who operate in a sick health system. The remuneration of medical staff is drastically low, often at national minimum wage level. The rates proposed by the government are much lower than those demanded by medical workers. Minister Radziwiłł has declared increases that do not meet the expectations of medical staff. In addition, the increases are expected to reach the expected ceiling only in 2021. It is unethical to shift responsibility for the fulfilment of promises to subsequent governments, since the current Minister has in his hands all the tools to take appropriate action. Doctors maintain the demands of the last few years, under which Minister Radziwiłł signed as head of the General Medical Chamber. These include a proper evaluation of health benefits, a reasonable level of remuneration or a revision of the rules on waiting for visits to professionals. The current Minister Radziwiłł, once head of the Chief Medical Council, fought loudly and decisively for the implementation of the postulates that had been put forward at the time. Today's demands are constant and, according to the Minister, doctors' expectations are impossible to meet. In this law, the rules designed by representatives of medical professions assume that minimum salaries, among others. Doctors, nurses or paramedics and physiotherapists will grow gradually and the minimum level assumed in the project will be reached in 2019. Although the project deals with the remuneration of all medical professions, it is primarily initiated by young workers. Last year's protests by doctors during specialization made their situation loud. Medics demanded, among other things. reforms of residency rules and salary increases that have not affected since 2009 For similar reasons, medical rescuers are protesting today. The need for changes in the health system is enormous. It is not enough to make a cosmetic adjustment to the deteriorating situation in health care, tapeworm queues, humiliating pay of many professional groups in medicine and an increasing staff deficit. The wages must motivate workers to stay in the country, so they should be comparable to those in Western Europe. Poles should be treated at European level and health workers should be treated under conditions that do not differ from EU standards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u234	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We don't really have a choice. What was called today's health system a few times here, isn't really any system, because it's one big... it's a colossus. on clay legs, which is about to fall and you don't know how many Poles you're going to crush. We need to talk about the whole thing. We need to talk about the whole thing, but here, bow to your project initiators, we need to have someone to talk to. And if the last young doctors leave Poland, and the last doctors who are already retired will find that their time has passed, we will be left without doctors. I have a question. Our club's position is clear. We need to talk to those young people who have prepared their concept, and we really need to convince them to stay in Poland. The path from a medical student to a specialist doctor or a specialist nurse, or anyone in this whole collection of many professionals who care about our health and life, is very long. At any stage these people can emigrate from Poland. We need to take this seriously. The suggestion that this project be rejected so that the committee doesn't look at it seems outrageous to me. If a quarter of a million young people, young doctors, young nurses have an idea, we have a duty to get to know them, which I ask on behalf of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! Mr Fellowships and Members, Today I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care. I wanted to make it very clear that this is a citizens' project, the shape of which has been agreed by representatives of all medical professions. For the first time in history, they joined forces to present the real financial needs of Polish health services. The applicants were open to discussions on the deadline for these changes as well as the final scope, but at the same time expected their project to be conducted together with the government project. Unfortunately, a few weeks ago, the government project was adopted in a huge hurry, because what else is to call the process of law in less than 36 hours, practically without consulting the most interested. Unfortunately, this approach favours only further deepening of the collapse in which the Polish health system is located. The levels of remuneration adopted by the government law do not change virtually anything, but even freeze the possible increase in wages for part of the professions for the next few years. During my work on the Government Act, in order to allow the Medical Profession Agreement to be heard, I made amendments during the second reading which, according to the parliamentary custom, should be submitted to the Health Committee for opinion. Unfortunately, Members of the Law and Justice completely ignore good parliamentary customs. Having a parliamentary majority, they can of course approve almost anything, but they seem to have forgotten what it means to debate and work on the best possible solutions, because we are creating the right for citizens. The arrogance of Members representing only party interests is also borne out by the fact that the government project was only sent to the Sejm at a time when it was certain that the required number of signatures had been collected under the civil project. I would like you to have the courage to go to nurses, residents, physiotherapists, paramedics and explain to them what was the result of such haste in passing this vital bill. Unfortunately, I know that they cannot expect such an attitude from you, because you do not represent the interests of citizens and the interests of your party. I wanted to point out that as a doctor with a fairly long internship, I'm afraid that with such a government policy, there will be no one to treat my grandchildren. I would like to draw everyone's attention here to the right to health - everyone, whether he is a senior or still young and strong. Every citizen has the right to health protection, and at the moment, by acting as rulers, this right is limited. I'm not a manager, but I do know one very important thing: the most important resource of every enterprise is people, without them you can't build anything permanent. Your behaviour a few weeks ago, even a panic in the adoption of bad law, had no justification except to avoid confronting the authors of the civil project, which was still inevitable. At the moment, all you can see is how you treat the voice of the citizens, the people who create the system, fighting for the lives and health of your constituents every day. They often, just like medical rescuers now, will not stop doing their duty because they have a conscience that won't let them do it. However, in order to ensure a safe future for their families, they will not hesitate to go to Romania, where significant increases have been introduced in parallel for health professionals. In my opinion, it is amazing that Romania, which is one of the poorest countries of the European Union, sees the problem and knows that its only solution is to increase the expenditure on health care and Poland cannot decide on this step. I hope that national media will be sufficiently interested in the problem of health protection, which really affects each of us, and to which the governing party has no idea beyond the budgeting and increase of expenditure promised for 2021. Only that in 4 years to Poland it will be necessary to bring doctors from beyond the eastern border, because specialists educated at our universities will simply emigrate. I would also like to remind all the debutantes with whom they went into politics, how strongly they stressed the need to listen to the voice of the citizens. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are facing this opportunity. Modern, of course, supports the citizens' project, which is part of its programme to increase health expenditure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u237	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! Citizens' Initiative! The Medical Professor's Agreement! I am very pleased that we can discuss this project. It is a pity that we are talking at a time when the government has adopted a solution that is incomparably worse than that proposed by our fellow countrymen. Then all the opposition clubs asked us to look at these two projects together, which basically made sense. And that was the moment when we could listen to the voice of our compatriots. $250,000. signatures - you can't really walk past it indifferently. Then - I don't know why, I don't understand it until today - most of the Committee on Health didn't want to accept this solution. And we can hear even the best announcements, but today it will be much harder to put the citizens' project into practice. We have heard a very profound justification for this project, which is about demographic change in Poland, which causes Poland to achieve the greatest possible success, which is our longer life. This is the greatest for every country, for every community, for civilization. But in order for this life to be worthy, it has to be the right quality. So not only the length, but also the quality of life. The quality of life depends on many factors. Depends on economic, economic factors. But undoubtedly, the quality of life of people of dignified age depends on those who have come to this room today, on those who have not been admitted, on those who have collected signatures, and on those who have shown their trust, on the paramedic, on the physiotherapist, on the rehabilitationist, from the nurse, from the midwife, from the doctor, from anyone who is involved in the therapy and treatment process. Without a decent wage, of course, we cannot hope that there will be a lot of volunteers, especially in professions such as nursing. Already today, Polish medical universities are struggling with the problem of filling the places they offer for nurses, midwives, physiotherapists. That's our problem together. When There Was A Speech not so long ago about road accidents, about the road fund, the PiS Members pointed out how many people died on the road and why roads had to be renovated. Today, the applicant has shown how many people may not receive proper medical assistance as many people may lose their health or life if there are no adequate medical personnel, both in terms of their number and quality, and their satisfaction with their profession, the satisfaction that comes not only from helping another person, because it is always the basic satisfaction in the medical professions, but also in the satisfaction of the decent pay and good work that gives them a sense of security, because it is also extremely important. This is a huge problem today - lack of a sense of stability and security among Polish medical staff. Ladies and gentlemen, this law should be adopted immediately, which is why, first of all, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, following yesterday's proposal, I am applying for an immediate transition to second reading. [[Applause]] No job on the committee. Really. Yesterday you had the courage to work on the Supreme Court Act without sending it back to the committee, and there was a lot of doubt. Today there is a lot of kindness - I hope from all the clubs - so let's go straight to second reading. Perhaps this bill will still be passed at this meeting. Courage. [[Applause]] Courage and it's gonna be okay. Ladies and gentlemen, this is money, of course, and... [[Voice from the hall: What's the money?]] No. I believe in the principle that PiS... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: What's the case with the courts, the courts doesn't matter.]] ...preached in an election campaign. I think a lot of people believed that rule. You are the rulers today. You were supposed to be a good change. You're better, you've won the election. You always said there was nothing impossible. The Prime Minister repeats that from this platform every time. There's nothing impossible for you. There's economic growth, there's good VAT collection. So what are we going to invest in? [[You guys have as much support as the judges.]] You didn't want to invest on the road, so let's invest in health care. We ask for this on behalf of this group [[♪ The bell ♪]] A very large, 250,000. citizens. It is possible, let's go straight to second reading, let's adopt this law for the benefit of Polish patients and health professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u239	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Applicants! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present our position on the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care. The aim of the proposed law is to determine the lowest amount of basic salary available to medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. The projectors have determined the level of remuneration in the various professional groups based on labour rates, which can be subject to a number of reservations. There were none in the given professional groups, e.g. addictive therapists - instructors and specialists who are a large professional group. They were classified in the group: other professions performing work in medicinal subjects with a very low rate, although the training of a psychotherapist can be compared to the training of a doctor with the first degree of specialization. The creators of the law show that health workers are discriminated against by the way healthcare providers are financed by public funds. The very idea of the proposed legislative amendment is right in my view. Medical professionals should be adequately remunerated. I will say more: this should be the idea of the state's action so that all its citizens for decent work receive fair pay. However, I have doubts whether, in the context of positive changes in Poland, we should give privileges to another social group. Why can a driver or seller be subject to a uniform minimum wage for all employees and medical professionals should be subject to a special clause on this matter? Undoubtedly - I have mentioned this from this speaker many times, but I also raised it in the interpellations to Minister Radziwiłł - we need to reform Polish health care and take care of the right way of training and paying medical staff, because for him the temptation to emigration is still very strong. The work on the reform is ongoing, but before it is carried out, it will take some time. We must remember that, although the efforts of the Minister of Finance of Mateusz Morawiecki significantly increase the revenue of the state, it is very expensive to correct long-term negligence in health care, which makes it still underfunded. The imposition of further commitments on the government, which is in the process of reforming the entire system related to health protection of Poles, does not seem to be the right direction at the moment. Despite his objections to the bill presented, due to its civic character near Free and Solidarni, he will vote in favour of referring the bill to work in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u241	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. [[But I'm gonna have to ask you for a little longer. It's not like there's enough of us. The subject is important. What do you care? One and a half minutes.]] Ma'am, first of all, don't raise your voice. [[I just want you to hear me.]] Secondly, we're very late. The subject is very important, but... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...then an able-bodied Member, well-thinking, can ask a question within a minute. Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska has the floor... [[Some people can kill with a look. My father looked at me and I knew what was going on.]] ... Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u242	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Applicant State! There is no doubt that pay in the health sector requires some regulation. Many young, educated people, I agree, emigrate to the European Union countries, especially those in the Western countries. I listened very carefully to your proposal for a bill. However, I did not find concrete proposals for solutions. Therefore, I have a question for the applicant: Are all professional groups employed in medical entities included in this project and have the project authors estimated the effects of this regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u243	Thank you. And Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u244	Today's first reading of the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care is unfortunately pure courtesy and merely fulfilling the rules of procedure. Since 7 June 2017, after an outrageous and loud meeting of the Health Committee and after the rapid conversion of the government's draft law in 36 hours, it seems that no one in this Chamber has any doubts about the real intentions of the PiS government towards the civil project. Is it true that the PiS government doesn't want to give money for a real raise in health care and that's why they're pretending to be Greek? Is it true that, after the entry into force of 1 July 2017, the Government's proposal for a Law on the lowest remuneration of directors of institutions are obliged first of all with the money guaranteed in the budgets of those institutions for increases for nurses and midwives 4 times 400 gross gross to pay out commitments from the Government Act, and only second, as the financial resources are available, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, Minister Zembala 4 times the gross 400 gross? Besides, aren't PiS members cyborgs and sick and using the health system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u245	Thank you. Bravo, you've done a great job. You can fit in time. Congratulations, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act is a test for the ruling party. We have the voice of a sovereign backed up by 240 thousand. signatures under the citizens' minimum wage project in health care. The staff gathered in the Medical Competition Agreement are picketing tonight before the Sejm. Aren't you ashamed? People are demonstrating opposition to the actions of politicians and government disregarding the citizens' bill. On 8 June, the Sejm and on 29 June, the Senate passed a law prepared by the government on how to determine the lowest remuneration of medical workers. The citizens' project under consideration today is an environmental response that does not allow poor pay to be fixed in health care. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, will you ignore this vote? Where are your election promises? Have you forgotten? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have a very short memory. You promised to listen to the Poles, so show them you can, and keep your word. Let's move on to second reading. I suggest you do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u247	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that this project cannot be dealt with because there is no specific source of funding. I would like to remind you that there is also no specified source of funding in the Government Act, except, of course, the budgetary units, because this is easy to estimate. The same could be said here. I have a question for the Minister: Is it real and possible to increase funding in health care? Because otherwise, this project really cannot be completed. And you can't keep bringing the medical staff's environment against the heads of the unit all the time. I have a question for the applicants, because I see that here in these coefficients that you point out, there is a little confusion: once you talk about years of work, once you don't talk about years of work. But I think all of this is still to be worked out, so if [[♪ The bell ♪]] any profession It's either missing or, let's say, maybe it's misjudged... 'Cause why say once that someone's an older tech, and once they don't think that someone's an older nurse...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u250	...after five years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u251	Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u252	Thank you very much. My question is for the Minister. This question was actually provoked by the speech of the PiS Member who criticised the project as one which, above all, does not have an assessment of the financial consequences of the regulation. I would like to ask the Minister, to ask me specifically - it may even be in writing - to reply on which indicators, on which data you were based, setting out those indicators which were proposed in your government submission. That's my first question. The second question concerns the hospital network. Do you not fear that by introducing lump sums into public hospitals that will be online and in the future also the budgetary system, you will lead to an even greater deterioration in the financing of the whole system, to a lack of funding not only for salaries but also for health benefits, therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you didn't expect growth compared to 2015 levels? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u253	Thank you. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! Two years ago, Prof. Hrynkiewicz, Dr. Latos, actually at every meeting of the Health Committee, alarmed: health professionals make too little money when we get to power, we change everything. And what did it turn out to be? [[Applause]] It's been two years, no progress. You've been talking about an increase in health expenditure. In the country's multi-annual financial plan there is neither a zloty to increase health care benefits. It was supposed to be 6% by 2025, no gold. This is, of course, another electoral commitment that you wanted to fulfil, but it just doesn't work. Another thing is that today in this room, we are talking about health care in such a very quick, short moment, and doctors, Dr. Małecka-Libera, Dr. Ruciński and Dr. Latos are talking about it... No, Dr. Latos escaped because he didn't even want to talk about it today, even though he was the face of those projects. [[Kosiniak-Kamish.]] Kosiniak-Kamish or me, we understand it perfectly. Young doctors earn less than salesmen [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Biedronka or Netto. These young doctors will leave and we with our ageing society will be sick and deprived of care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u255	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! We all remember how Jarosław Kaczyński was Prime Minister and a white town was established before the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Fair working conditions and wages were demanded. That's when the range of protesting nurses was blocked, you escorted the police out. [[And then you started ruling, and you didn't...]] Today, medical workers were not allowed into the Sejm so that they could listen to the first reading of the civil project. How are you going to approach medical demands today? Are the announcements of the election campaign on civic projects always up to date - the point is that you will listen - or as you show every step of the way... [[You haven't done anything in eight years.]] ...will you disregard every postulate if it's not from Nowogrodzka? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u257	Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask a question addressed both to the representatives of the applicants and to the Minister, but I would like to give my attention earlier. I do not know whether the applicant's representative realises that he has given a very simplified message here, especially in the final phase of his speech. It has put a sign of equality between health care and wage increases. If it were that simple, health care would have been healed a long time ago. Incidentally, this bill is not about wages, it is about minimum wages, and these are two completely different cases. Minister! State of Representatives! This project has a significant lack, namely it does not contain a financial statement of the draft law. In view of the above, I ask the question whether [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've assessed the effects of this bill. In particular, I ask the Minister to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u259	Thank you. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question is addressed to the applicants. On 2nd page. explanatory notes: it is natural that the guaranteed minimum level of remuneration for medical workers should be higher than that generally applicable, without taking into account the above conditions. End of quote. My question is therefore: What do the applicants think should be the minimum but higher level of remuneration for this professional group? I would also like to ask what is to be the fair level of remuneration for you, because in the explanatory memorandum you write that you are being exploited, that it is simply unbelievable exploitation that this injury that is happening to you is to be corrected by the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask you to respond to this because this is the basis for an impact assessment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u261	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The title of the proposed law is: the citizens' draft law on employment conditions in health care. However, the content of the Act does not apply to all persons employed in health care, because medical personnel, and not all of them, in my opinion, from this staff. Why didn't applicants include all health professionals in their project? Is there no contradiction, or do they not see a contradiction between the title and the content of the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u263	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Applicant country! I would like to ask about social dialogue. The question is to both sides. What is the current dialogue between the government and the state? What did this dialogue look like in the past? Have you discussed these demands for eight years? Was anything like this happening? To be honest, I don't know what's funny. Maybe this dialogue hasn't really been in the last eight years. [[But you've been in charge for two years.]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: But there are already two more.]] By the way, these raises haven't been in the last eight years either. The previous rule of law and justice was probably insufficient, but some increases were. A little word for polemics. I'm a critic of certain things about the oncology package, but just as much as you wouldn't criticize, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to waiting a few dozen weeks. We have ensured that 6 weeks are respected within the package. You said it was a few dozen weeks of waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u265	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u266	I don't think so. Like the issue of the level of education... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[They turned your voice off, Thomas.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u267	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u268	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Question to the initiators of the bill: Is it true that this is the first project in 30 years that representatives of all medical professions have worked on? Is it true that so far, for 30 years, every other Minister of Health has extinguished fires, throwing some money into a certain group of doctors, nurses... [[Not everyone, because the last one didn't give money.]] ...or paramedics like this? Questions for you, these two questions. And to the Minister, that's a pretty specific question. I know you're a government representative. I know in this ministry, like everyone else, you think with a four-year perspective. Does the Minister have any idea what health care should look like in Poland in 20, 30 years? What happens when this demographic hole actually threatens the lives of Poles? Do you have any long-standing visions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Initiative Group! High Izbo! Health workers have been abroad for years. Many of my colleagues, many of my colleagues in medical studies, are already providing medical assistance in Western European countries, Canada, the United States. I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister know the level of these annual health workers' trips? And second question: What is the cost of training a doctor, a nurse, a physiotherapist, a rehabilitator or a paramedic? This is the real cost which Poland incurs, is borne by Polish citizens for the education of those who later go abroad and provide assistance there. Are you sure Poland can afford only to educate and not to give decent money to all social groups? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław, I am sorry, Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Minister! Dear Applicants! This situation we have heard about is not optimistic and requires response, action, and effective action. Therefore, it seems to me that the proposal to move to second reading is correct. [[Applause]] I, too, support this proposal. We won't meet until September, according to what the marshal has planned. Then we will already have a planned budget and all these declarations will be obsolete. That's why I have a question. Today the nurses are dropping, the hospital debt is rising, and we're in a lot of trouble with doctors too. Are you expecting more funding for health care next year? Without increased funding, we have had this discussion in the case of hospital networks, it will be impossible to solve these problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Minister: How do you see the solution to these problems? I support the proposal to move to second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u273	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. We were not honoured by Mr Szczerba. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have promised to increase healthcare expenditure and to increase wages. Unfortunately, it's been a while now, and we know what the pay in health care is, they're low. The proposed increases do not meet the expectations of the environment. It is worth recalling that once Minister Radziwiłł, when he was not a minister, also supported these increases, supported these changes. We have a good economic situation, we have more VAT revenue, so I think there's a good time to find a compromise on this. That is why I wanted to ask the question: What ministry sees the chances of increasing salaries in health care, so that remuneration conditions do not deviate sharply from the standards of the European Union? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thought tonight at the gallery we'd see physiotherapists, medical diagnostics, nurses. Unfortunately, they weren't allowed in here, as if they were threatening to rebel in this gallery. Therefore, Minister... [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] ... what exactly is the Ministry of Health's proposal for them? Such a memento for applicants is the question of what have been obtained by protesters medical rescuers making their specific demands. Do you confirm that 400 PLN will be received from 1 July 2017 and another 400 PLN from 1 January 2018? What is the matter with a small amendment to the Act on State Medical Rescue? Will, as you promised, be adopted in November 2017? Where is this project right now? Will this project be subject to public consultation? You also said, as far as medical rescuers are concerned, that the voivodships [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll find more money. Tell me if you've sent specific letters to the voivodships and indicated the source of funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u277	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u278	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a citizens' bill on conditions of employment in health care. At first, I will refer to this project because this is the subject of today's debate. These issues which have been proposed for regulation in this citizens' project are, as you have mentioned many times here, included in the Act on Conditions of Employment in Health, which was adopted in June by the Sejm and the Senate and is waiting for the President's signature. On the other hand, this current project, after such a detailed analysis, raises many doubts. The first significant question concerns the title of the Act and the scope of the Law. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: But is that the most important thing?]] Of course, non-medical workers are to be subject to regulation, e.g. non-medical personnel. I would like to point out that, in the process of the government project, legislators have also pointed out to us that they cannot be covered by such sector regulation, because it is sector regulation, all workers, i.e. those who do not provide medical services. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: And this is what you do in these laws.]] The argument which was used at the time was that workers who do not participate in the provision of benefits, unfortunately cannot be covered by this sector-specific regulation. What's the difference between work, e.g. accountant, computer science at the hospital from the bookwork or computer science at the office? Therefore, this raises constitutional doubts. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: The Constitution is your specialty.]] Another issue that was questionable in the in-depth analysis is the lack of cost estimates. In the Ministry of Health, the costs of this regulation have been calculated in detail and, ladies and gentlemen, within 3 years, because this regulation is due to apply in the perspective of 3 years, the effects of this regulation amount to 41 billion PLN. [[Government?]] On the other hand, in the 10-year perspective, the impact of this regulation is over PLN 388 billion. Would such a burden on the state budget, even with the increase in health expenditure requested by you, be possible? It's easy to calculate that you don't. [[Beat Małecka-Libera: You can do it, you can do it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of doubt here. also the question of those criteria which are mentioned in this Act. I would like to stress that this regulation on the citizens' initiative does not include those that you cared most about and the applicants also cared most about here, namely that it does not include trainees' doctors. So here, discussions about the care of young doctors' wages are a bit missing the goal. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: You are afraid of little things.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Mr. Marshal... Excuse me, Marshal, may I continue? Because the Member is bothering me. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: We listen, listen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u279	You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of comments on this regulation because, as the applicant points out, the regulation also covers persons employed in other forms, i.e. not only on the basis of a contract of employment, but also on the basis of a contract of order or a civil law contract. Here the Act does not specify in any way how this law should be implemented in relation to those persons, the more that we are talking about a basic salary and, in turn, persons employed on civil law contracts do not benefit from any allowances, but have fixed specific amounts for a particular unit of work. So that there is no such detailed regulation as to how this law should be implemented in relation to those persons. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, in replying to your questions about the possibility of implementing this law, I would like to stress one thing that the current Government of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Health are effectively implementing a strategy aimed at developing health protection and care, taking care of health professionals. There were questions about specific actions. As regards the increase in the number of medical staff, ladies and gentlemen, since last year the Minister of Health has increased and secured funding for education, increased the number of places in medical institutions by 20% and this is continued. [[But residency?]] In medical schools, which means when doctors leave medical schools, there will also be increased funds for residency for this increased number of students who will leave medical universities. Also, ladies and gentlemen, work is currently underway to increase funding in nursing departments. I would like to comment on Mr Kosiniak-Kamish's information, who said that there are vacant places in the nursing departments at the universities. Ladies and gentlemen, last year at several medical universities, there were several people at medical universities for the nursing department. That is why this year we have taken steps to increase the number of places in these universities, so that the number of trained nurses can be increased. There was a concern here to increase the cost of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we in the electoral programme have talked about the fact that we are going to take measures to increase expenditure, and this is what is being done. Specific projects are being developed, which will soon be submitted for public consultation... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Just like the courts.]] ...and which involve increasing expenditure on health care, as Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł has said many times, among others. in this House. Ladies and gentlemen - I would like to address the Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL - ladies and gentlemen, here you have repeatedly paid attention to what happened in 2007, in 2008, at a white town or a white summit. I would like to remind you that no one else, only Mr Donald Tusk in 2008 at the white summit, said that a minimum wage bill would be set up within two years. Where's the bill? [[There she is, now she's procedated.]] Then Mr. Donald Tusk said... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: But we are talking about the present time, not about the past.]] ...in 2008 that by 1% expenditure on health protection will increase from 2010. That's what Mr. Donald Tusk said. [[Put this bill on second reading.]] Did the effort increase? They didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, we speak and act. We have increased the funding, the funds for the raises, we are implementing the increases promised by the previous government, and it has not secured this in the 2016 budget. [[Voice from the room: These are not raises.]] The Law and Justice Government has found and continues these increases in the budget. [[With us, in our pockets.]] There was also an agreement with the paramedics yesterday. [[Voice from the room: with the solidarity.]] It is not true that rescuers will protest because yesterday an agreement was signed with rescuers, which shows that any strike is suspended and that the government will allocate PLN 400 from 1 July this year, and the next PLN 400 from January next year for an increase in salaries for rescuers. [[Voice from the room: What about the bill? What about the bill?]] The Act - one of your fellow Members quoted exactly the communication that is on the website of the Ministry of Health. That's exactly where we define it. The bill will be passed this year. Such an agreement has been signed. [[Thirty-six hours and she'll be passed.]] Back to social dialogue - ladies and gentlemen, it happens that on behalf of the Ministry of Health I am seconded to cooperation in the Social Dialogue Panel, and I would like to inform you that we have very frequent meetings, at least once or sometimes twice a month, with representatives of the social side, with representatives of employers, trade unions and we are talking. [[Voice from the room: You wanted a bill.]] Of course, conversations are difficult, because expectations - we realize that, otherwise, very right - are large, but the possibilities of the state are also limited. [[You can do this.]] And we're trying to develop solutions that are acceptable to both sides. And we're making this dialogue. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: You don't have much time until September.]] We are not running away from social dialogue, we are talking to all the professional groups who report to these talks. I'm gonna go back to some specific questions about this bill. What are the financial consequences of the proposed solution, I have already said, because Mr Dziuba asked - 41 billion in 3 years, 388 billion in 10 years. What's the idea of health care, that's the question here. I think that Minister Radziwiłł has repeatedly communicated in this Chamber what the Ministry is doing on behalf of the government. [[They'll assess the patients.]] These are the laws that have been made so far, i.e. a law on hospital networks, which is a flagship law regulating the health system. [[300 hospitals closing.]] [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Yes, the flagship.]] Also in the near future, the bill on basic health care was being examined - today at the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers. Further laws are being prepared to regulate the system and direct it to providing comprehensive benefits, not so far, to finance individual products or individual services that were not effective and had little to do with the economics of health care. So that these actions are being taken. At the same time, the Minister of Health is preparing a bill aimed at increasing health expenditure. [[He's paying through his patients.]] Such a project will soon be submitted to the public for consultation. The government's strategic documents state that we will seek to increase the expenditure on health care in such a way as to... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: How will you pursue if there is no budget?]] ... guarantees could be provided, among others. For example, the financing of raises. With regard to the bill that was adopted in this House a month ago - the cost of introducing this regulation is PLN 16.8 billion, that is big money... [[Which one?]] ...which will be transferred to health care professionals. [[But which one?]] You think it's a small amount, but the question was where the money would come from. Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented in detail an assessment of the impact of the regulation, if you do not remember, you can return to the source materials, and we have shown that, taking into account macroeconomic indicators, there will be an increase in the revenues of the National Health Fund. [[Which was supposed to be eliminated.]] From this growth we are able to finance these increases in the health sector. And so this year, not the budget costs, but the costs of the sector will cost around 16%. increase in income of the National Health Fund compared to last year. So that the funds are in the NFZ and these increases will be implemented. Of course, the perception of these increases will vary for different employees. But there will be such workers... [[Voice from the room: 20 PLN per month.]] ...who will receive a raise of approx. 1600 PLN with a minimum salary... [[Voice from the room: Who and where?]] ...so if we're talking about gross wages, that's it. even more than 2,000. zł. There's gonna be a raise like that, too. On the other hand, the purpose of this regulation was to correct injustice, the sense of harm caused by the unequal remuneration of workers. We know perfectly well what reward chimneys have been created in recent years, and that is why we have made such a preliminary regulation that would lead to... [[Okay, so, second reading, that's it.]] ...to eliminate these irregularities. [[Voice from the hall: You did not answer my question.]] Is that all, Minister? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: I tried to answer all the questions... [[What about my question about the so-called. Zembala raises?]] Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Well, you can't listen... ...I didn't give you the floor. [[But there was no answer to my question.]] But please, take it easy. Does the Minister still want to speak, or is that all? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Mrs Kołodziej asked if it was true that the PiS government does not want to give money for raises. It's not true. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No, I didn't ask you that.]] Thank you. Mr Dybek, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor. [[My speech was misunderstood by the Minister.]] You're welcome. Madame, you will kindly sit on the bench. [[My speech by the Minister was misunderstood.]] [[There was a name.]] You have not filed a motion for corrigendum. Have a seat... [[That's what I'm filing for a corrigendum.]] ...at this moment and please wait. I ask the representative of the committee to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u280	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Dear Messengers and Members, Referring to the words of the Minister: countries, Medical Profession Agreement - for the first time in Poland's history all medical professions speak with one voice. We stand in one line, and that's our strength. We're not a federation, we're not a big union, we're 90% They're young people. We're saying... [[The voice from the hall: What, you're scaring us, I'm sorry?]] Thank you very much, Member. No, I'm answering questions, I think you can. May I? [[Yes, you do.]] Replying to the Minister: letter from the Ministry of Health, Dr. Tomasz Dybek, Chairman of the Board of the National National Trade Union of Physiotherapy Workers, ul. Pruszkowska 76, building 9, Opole. Physical therapist, ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many raises he's gonna get? Specialist - 210 PLN. So I'm asking you, Minister, where are those 1,600 zlotys? [[Applause]] You see, six years from now, six years from now. This is the demagogy that the state of government is practicing, Mrs. Messenger, Minister... During the process of the government law we asked a question, asked a fellow resident and asked her. Beautiful response from the ministry: 1200. 1600. And the facts, in writing? There is 210 zł, I repeat, for a specialist physiotherapist, i.e. a person who has a master's degree has a specialization after 5 years, you know that, will get 210 zł raise. On the 4th of May, I had the pleasure of being the chairman of the national board of directors at the hospital in Tarnów. Mrs Anna Czech, Member of Law and Justice, is the director of this hospital. Do you know how much a physical therapist earns, a master's degree in gross physiotherapy, how much does he have? PLN 1700. And what kind of raises are you talking about? 1700 PLN, May 4th. The Minister and I, and you, are part of a trialogue, but there is a significant difference that I, from the beginning, have only been with you since February. Dialogue - of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is dialogue. What does it say? There's no sign of anything. Ladies and gentlemen, going further, I answer the question. We had many conversations, we were in Poznań with the Member, we were with many Members, we were talking in Krakow, in Warsaw, in Wrocław, we were at the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, I quote, is devastated by the Ministry of Health because they didn't get any project. Ba, these are the words that are recorded. They have no data on the basis of which the ratio from the government project was created. [[Applause]] And the Minister and I are on a trialogue. At the very beginning of this team's work, a year ago, Dr. Andrzej Smartala, Vice President of Polish Employers, asked one question - will there be funding. We in our bill - this is what the Marshal of the Sejm requires when the bill is filed with you, I will not instruct, because by education I am a physiotherapist, I am also an academic teacher - so we make a bill, please, a justification. Do you require legislation from doctors? No. Sorry, we can't do that. We, as citizens, did what we had to do. We've joined together and we're a force. Force. We collected a quarter of a million signatures, so, ladies and gentlemen, like I said at the beginning. This is where I refer to Mrs Hrynziewicz's statement. Perhaps this bill is legislatively underdeveloped. We don't need to know, but if you're in agreement with the U.S. Marshals, and you should agree with the U.S. Marshals Act... B, these coefficients 6 and 8% The GDP was not offered by anyone other than you, Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł. We know that our bill is 2.5 billion a year for the state budget, but this is, you know, how much, what conversion? 1.2 to 1.5 GDP. If GDP increases, as we call for in the second point, there will be more spending on health care. I would like to emphasise the answer to another Member, unfortunately I do not remember her name and surname. The preparation of this project was attended by representatives of all medical professions and representatives of all medical professions set a coefficient. You asked about psychotherapy, no, about psychotherapists. I would definitely like to emphasise once again. If the State of Law and Justice, Mrs Hrynkiewicz, who is probably the only one who has responded from the Seymary, has read carefully, do not require legislation from us, we give three months for you to do so. Let me see, you have a historic moment. Let me repeat: for the first time, there is a physician, a person who is not an MEP, who is present to you on the Parliamentary Speaker, a project. You have the support of a quarter of a million Poles. What more do you politicians need? You have great indicators, you have a great budget, what else do you need? [[Applause]] Let me see. Let's see, rise to the heights of everything and show it. I would like to thank you all very much for your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u281	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform, has tabled a request for corrigendum. You're welcome. Now, Commissioner, you have the opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u282	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Very briefly. Is it true that the government of PiS implements its government bill through increases from Prof. Zembala's money? That's short. How long has it been? If you still do not understand whether it is true that after the entry into force on 1 July of the Law on the lowest remuneration, the directors of institutions are forced first of all to pay out the money guaranteed in their own budgets for increases for nurses and midwives, at 4 times 400 PLN gross, to pay out commitments from your government law, and only in the second place, when the funds are made, they can pay the allowance to nurses and midwives. Is that such a difficult question? Please answer directly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u283	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u284	Madam President, if it is so difficult to understand my statement, I will read the provisions of the law which the Sejm has passed. An agreement or arrangement to increase the basic salary of a nurse or midwife shall take into account the increase in the monthly salary of the nurse or midwife concerned on the basis of the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Law of 2004 on public-funded benefits. That's the answer to your question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u285	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, requests were made for additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Public Finances and for immediate entry to second reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act (Prints No. 1733 and 1747). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, the first reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act took place. The adoption by the committee in the vote of the draft law took place after a long discussion and no amendments were tabled during the process of the draft. The amendment of the RES Act has been prepared to stimulate the green certificates market and to close down the certificates in the longer term in that market. In the proposed law, we change the amount of the unit substitute fee by amending the article. 56 points 1 and 2 of the RES Act. Point 1 introduces a new formula for the calculation of the replacement fee, point 2 establishes the need to publish an annual price weighted on the basis of the arithmetic average of the annual prices weighted where those prices have been published by more than one entity referred to in Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 RES Act. In Amendment 2 to Draft Print Act No 1733 concerning Art. 64 in paragraph 2. 5 a new wording is given to the first sentence, which is the consequence of the introduction of the above-mentioned text. an amendment on how to calculate the substitute fee. Art. 2 The amendment concerns the entry into force of the proposed regulation 30 days after the date of publication. The general objective of the amendment is to introduce solutions to the RES Act, which contribute to the more sustainable development of Poland in the area of renewable energy sources. Therefore, we propose to link the amount of the unit substitute fee referred to in Article. 56 RES Act, with market prices of property rights resulting from certificates of origin. Applicants take the view, and this is also the justification for the proposed amendments, that without additional intervention measures on the part of the legislator it is not possible to reduce the current surplus certificates, which is currently estimated at around 20TWh. This change seems to address the problem of increasing interest of RES generators in the stock market. The point is that the replacement fee currently set at the quota amount has already lost its ability to boost the regulatory environment and will potentially increase costs for end-users in the longer term, all the more so as the so-called increase may occur. the green obligation, in accordance with the RES Act, up to a maximum of 20%. Importantly, the proposed change in the method of calculating the replacement fee for the end-user is completely neutral. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the motivation of the applicants to submit an amendment to the RES Act, which we are talking about, which is the subject of today's debate, is above all concern about the final consumer of energy, i.e. the ordinary citizen, the consumer of energy. The aim is to encourage players on the market of certificates of origin to sell certificates in a transparent manner through a commodity energy exchange, while at the same time providing them with greater profits due to the creation of RES, while at the same time the long-term benefit that ordinary electricity consumers in Poland can benefit from in the form of guaranteeing them a stable price for electricity collection. I think that in a sufficient way - perhaps not - I have put forward the views of the applicants and their arguments behind the amendments to the RES Act. But if not, of course I am available as rapporteur for the committee, as are the representatives of the Ministry of Energy present here, who are well aware of the issue of the market for certificates of origin and who fully sign up for this draft amendment to the RES Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u287	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u288	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, print No 1733. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce a solution to facilitate the sustainable development of our country in the area of renewable energy sources by changing the way in which the unit replacement fee is calculated, which is an element of making the green certificates market more flexible and, in the long term, reducing the over-supply of certificates in this market. What's the status? In a certificate-based, i.e. property rights, RES support system, renewable energy producer in addition to energy sales receives a certificate for every megawatt hour, which is a property right and can be sold either on the stock exchange or in an individual OTC transaction, i.e. over-the-counter. The sale price is a support for the manufacturer. On the other hand, energy sellers for end-users must license themselves with a quantity of certificates corresponding to their sales volume, i.e. they must buy them. Alternatively, they can pay the so-called. a replacement fee of PLN 300,03 per megawatt hour, which is significantly different from the market prices of property rights. For example, the average price of property rights referred to in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Point 8 (2) of the RES Act, in force in June, amounts to PLN 31.56 and the average annual price in force in 2017 amounts to PLN 73.63. What do we propose? The fundamental change proposed in the project is to abandon the constant value of the so-called. the replacement fee and its link to market prices of energy certificates of origin from green RES certificates and blue certificates, with the assumption that the replacement fee itself will be calculated separately for these producer groups. It should be noted here that the green obligation itself is also separate for agricultural biogas and separate for other producer groups. The fee would be 125%. the average price of the certificates in the previous year but not more than PLN 300,03 per MWh. This means that the method of calculating the replacement fee is changing, but - what is important - it does not change the maximum possible value, which is constant and is 300.03 PLN per megawatt hour. Currently, surplus certificates of origin so-called. green certificates are estimated to be around 20TWh. At present, the surplus of certificates is so high that, without additional intervention by the legislator, it is not possible to close it down. The amendment will also constitute a structural element of the support scheme for RES producers based on the obligation to obtain and present a certificate of origin for redemption, including certificates of origin for agricultural biogas. The change in the method of calculating the replacement fee proposed in this project for the final consumer will be neutral. In the current model, the permanent replacement fee loses citizens, as nearly 60% of turnover in the market for certificates of origin takes place outside the stock exchange at a price of PLN 300,03 per MWh. The analysis of the price of certificates of origin just a few days ago is so that 97% transactions took place outside the stock market at an artificially fixed price of PLN 285.03 per MWh by the traders of certificates of origin, whereas only around 3% of the transactions took place at market price, i.e. 27 PLN per MWh. The final cost was certainly borne by the final recipient. They also lost RES companies and profit from RES producers who, on the one hand, complain that they are suffering losses due to the low value of the RES certificate and, on the other hand, artificially, because in a non-market way, they determine the prices of certificates of origin. It is therefore urgent to stabilise this market so that the end-user does not bear such excessive costs. The legislative solution analysed does not raise any objections in the light of constitutional conditions, EU law or international agreements obligations. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. It is proposed to enter into force 1 month after its publication. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u289	Thank you very much. I have been informed that there has been a change and that Mrs Sitarski will be the third and Mr Sitarski will be the second on behalf of the Kukiz club15. I understand that Gabriela Lenartowicz confirms this fact, and if not, I understand that she will wait. That was his promise to the Marshal before, so I won't change it anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u290	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I thank you once again for the opportunity to speak in this manner. So, yes: on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to take a position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. I am reporting on the work of the committee and the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 at this moment. So, yes: the project generally did not find recognition among some opposition parties, the representatives even requested to take it off the agenda. Public hearings were also requested. It was argued that there were no representatives of RES-related entrepreneurs. It was proposed that a public hearing be held first of the draft Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. I am a representative of Kukiz,15, a citizen's movement that agrees with the voices that the work on renewable energy production, distribution and sales must involve single-person entities and companies, of course, for the benefit of citizens, in order to find the right solution. In conclusion, the project was developed for needs and according to the assumptions of the Ministry of Energy. And here the bitterness of the industry environment may be due to the fact that the development of RES lacks a comprehensive formula and form. Here is a parliamentary project, but not a government project. I understand that the parliamentary project does not require this, but it would be appropriate to make such an important bill and to have the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office here. The draft amendment of the law is used to regulate trading of the so-called system. green certificates. I move on to the substance of the proposed amendment to the law. There is a position of the Ministry of Energy, the position of the government of the Republic of Poland is lacking. On July 26th, a meeting of the Conciliation Committee is to be held. The non-sessional turnover by green certificates is greater than the one on the market for continuous quotations in terms of volume and quota. That's a fact. It's been moved here before. The aim of the amendment to the law is to implement the price, so-called. market, green certificates. And here are the comments, Minister, to the amendment: adjusting the amount of the substitute fee to changing regulatory conditions; the concept that the substitute fee is linked to property rights prices is included; aligning the provisions of the Act with the requirements set out in the Environmental Aid Guidelines and energy objectives in 2014-2020. And here are some questions. Is the amendment compatible with the competition rules, which specifies that prices are open to all RES generators competing under the same conditions? Does the amendment provide for a reduction in grants? At this point, energy companies in Poland must demonstrate an appropriate share of green energy in the electricity balance delivered to final customers. Certificates buy companies like PGE, Tauron, ENERGY. This ensures the share of green energy in the supply to customers, i.e. the obligation of RES to participate in the produced energy, where conventional sources prevail. This regulated market regulates, determines the demand for certificates. And at this point, I am very much in favour of further work on amending the Act in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Here the project, as I mentioned earlier, was supposed to be proceded as a government - it is as a parliamentary. It is a question of whether, however, one can be tempted to create a whole new project, already government. As a result of the adoption of the proposed amendment, it is highly likely that the so-called height will be linked. a replacement fee with the price of green certificates. Here's another thing. Single parliamentary projects do not guarantee that renewable energy sources in which many entrepreneurs have invested are stable businesses. A big, important issue is the history of companies' debts, people investing in RES on existing terms. At the moment there is a hesitation, so to speak, and an attempt to preserve the liquidity of these companies in order to survive to the announced government project. And here, however, to give a helping hand to entrepreneurs who have invested some money, and after some conversations with the social side, also with entrepreneurs, so as not to turn over, so to speak, quite a lot of RES projects, which have been realized, I would propose an amendment on the replacement fee. In general, the point is that the replacement fee is no more than PLN 300,03 - this is the way set out in the Act - but it would have to be set a minimum, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not less than PLN 130. I'm making this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u291	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask you now, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. Thanks again for your patience, but you can start now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act. This is a strange project, ladies and gentlemen, and it is strange both because of the applicants who submit it, because it is a parliamentary project, strange because of the substance, because it is excluded from a wide range of issues concerning renewable energy sources, because of the time when this project was submitted, when it is being processed, it is prepared in the Ministry a large government project of comprehensive regulation, but also because of the mode - and this is the strangest and most disturbing - in which it is processed. As I have already mentioned, the sole object of this project is to link the amount of the substitute fee with the market prices of property rights resulting from green certificates. The authors of this amendment propose to link this value of the fee so that the substitute fee is 125% The annual weighted average price of green certificates, i.e. currently would be less than PLN 40 per MWh. According to the current regulation, the corresponding amount of the substitution fee was in principle intended to create demand for certificates of origin and prevent excessive price increases. The current value of green certificates is PLN 300,03 per MWh and the price of certificates has been below PLN 30 for many months. At the time of the reduction of the replacement fee to a level close to the price of green certificates, the incentive to promote renewable energy production disappears, and companies obliged to demonstrate the contribution of RES to their energy mix have no incentive to purchase it. They may as well be free of this obligation by paying a substitute fee. There is therefore a legitimate concern - and not only from the industry - that the introduction of this change will result in a breakdown of the support system based on certificates of origin. And in this support system there are almost 5,8 GW of existing RES installations. The industry has both reported it to the committee and publicly believes that the bill will be a nail to the coffin for existing installations, because they will not be able to sell their certificates, and they will certainly not be able to do so more expensive than today. Meanwhile, already in 2016 e.g. 70% wind farms generated losses, which amounted to PLN 3 billion in total. A draft bill prepared by a group of Members amending the rules in the renewable energy sector dramatically does so in no time. Until a few days ago, no one had heard of this project, yesterday was voted out on the committee, of course, refusing both to attend the public hearing and to invite interested parties to the committee meeting, while not everyone had limited access, for example. Mr Zawisza, who was also a representative of the industry, could attend the meeting and a few other people who were not answered by whom and how they were invited. Apparently, they didn't pose threats like other interested guests. At the time of the project process, Ms PiS Ewa Malik, representing the applicants, referred to the representative of the energy department present at the meeting, even though the Ministry claimed that she had not participated in the project, but assessed it positively. It is interesting that, at the same time, she did not answer questions about details and substance, explaining the lack of presence in the expert committee, which helped to write this law because she is abroad. I suppose it's not Dr. Berczyński, and there's hope he'll come back and explain. The question arises as to whether it is better to make this change within the framework of this comprehensive regulation, which is to be tabled, and that is the question we are asking. But from the president's side there were answers that this is a short, small solution, and I quote: some kind of amendment to the bill. Second, it's a natural thing, if someone has a good idea, they want to make it happen as soon as possible. This is not convincing enough, so you have to ask yourself what is really going on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because experts have already written that this is lex Energa, as well as the former lex Szyszko, which was also a parliamentary project, but raised the concerns of the Supreme Court of PiS, or that this is not a way to lobby. The question is cui bono? Because there's usually a source there, a real source of these types of laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u293	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u294	The Civic Platform does not share the views of the applicants that the proposed change is good of all means - I quote the Member - but in order to relieve applicants and remove their doubts, which I have raised here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u295	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u296	...submits a motion to reject the project in its entirety, which I am submitting to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u297	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Zbigniew Gryglas to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. At first, a procedural remark, which was also mentioned by my previous speakers. I would like to draw attention to this surprising or extraordinary procedure for this amendment. This extraordinary mode is due to the fact that it is another parliamentary project on such sensitive matter. In the meantime, the government is currently looking into a more comprehensive revision of this law. There seems to be no reason why this matter should not be included in this broader amendment. The Act is adopted without consulting the environment of citizens, investors, prosumers, industry. In view of the extraordinary situation in the Sejm, we have requested a public hearing in this regard. Unfortunately, you have rejected this idea, I do not know, fearing the voices of the industry or unwilling to listen to them. Poles should and must be listened to not only in this matter, but in all others, draw conclusions, because this is extremely important. All the more reason to listen here citizens, those who want to invest their modest resources in renewable energy sources. Let me remind you that last year the Sejm adopted a novel act on renewable energy sources, which disbanded the hopes of thousands of Poles, hundreds of thousands of Poles for extensive implementation in our country of civic energy. Prosumers then lost the ability to account for their electricity production in home installations. This regulation also in practice inhibited the development of wind energy, without actually proposing anything concrete in return, only such regulations as this wind energy has inhibited. Today we are dealing with such a situation that here is a group of Members presenting a solution which is to link certificates of origin with a substitute fee. Indeed, these two elements should be linked, but not in such a way. This project is detrimental to the whole sector of renewable energy sources, it will not solve the key problem that we are currently facing, i.e. the oversupply of market certificates of origin, and in my opinion it will have a negative impact on the industry. This method of calculating the substitute fee proposed in the Act, setting it at 125% the annual price of the medium-weight certificates, limits the possible increase in quotations of certificates of origin. In this situation, it would take at least a dozen years to get to the price of certificates of origin from the starting level, which we remember from the introduction of this mechanism, which was included in many financial projects, in many projections. Until then, investors will suffer losses they will no longer be able to make up for. Many of them will eventually fall or end their activities. They're gonna lose everyone, because they're gonna lose local governments on taxes, and they're gonna lose land owners who lease their property for wind power plants. All these problems are also addressed by formal issues related to relations with the European Union. I do not agree with this claim that there are no problems with notification. There is a problem with notification because at the time of adoption of this instrument it was notified and any change to this system also requires such notification. Let me make an amendment to this law on behalf of the club. The essence of this amendment is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the mechanism limiting the increase in price of certificates of origin takes effect from a certain point in time. This moment is to reach a price of PLN 200 per MWh, so that this oversupply of certificates is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u299	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u300	...stepless discharge. I present the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u302	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I would like to say this: the project that we have come to process at the moment, concerning a small section of the Renewable Energy Act, has been implemented in express mode. What happened so suddenly that within a dozen hours we have to process a project that has many aspects, many connections, many entities? I think that we should take this calmly, because if we look historically at what is happening in recent years in the field of renewable energy, in the process and through all these changes, we will see that they do not serve the development of renewable energy, they put investors first and foremost in a very difficult situation, even our economy, which has certain commitments. Of course, I have stressed and I will stress this all the time that there is no political will in terms of renewable energy. It's just that right now there's no spirit in our country so that renewable energy can feel safe, so to speak. You have to keep wondering what the rulers are up to and trying to prevent the development of renewable energy. The way in which this bill is dealt with indicates that. Interested parties, the renewable energy sector, local governments and banks were not allowed to speak because they also have a stake in this. Of course, the problem with oversupply of certificates of origin is and it needs to be solved. There's no question about that. Here we will support solutions that would serve this purpose. On the other hand, this project does not really provide solutions which would guarantee that certificates of origin will obtain their value and will, so to speak, serve the purpose for which they were created. This puts in a difficult situation first of all investors who took out loans, banks that granted these loans, because today the RES industry has found itself in a very difficult situation, especially windmills, which mainly through the windmill law, but also... The fact that green certificates, certificates of origin are of such low value does not compensate for the costs incurred and the cost of generating energy in this generation. That is why we are very concerned about this project. It certainly won't help the RES industry. This fee was allocated by energy producers to the National Environmental Fund. There, including those resources collected, were financed various projects that supported the development of renewable energy. So if these measures decrease - I did not get an answer, if it is reduced and designed, let's call it, after these proposed solutions, the new price of the levy - it will also be to some detriment to the industry and the economy. That is why I want to make an amendment on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, because I know that today you have such power and power that you can vote everything out, quickly vote even the worst solutions. Then you have to worry about how to get out of it and how to fix it. On the other hand, it may be worth thinking rationally, thinking and discussing simply, because here the business is common, it is the interest of our entire energy system, but above all [[♪ The bell ♪]] investors who have taken up the challenge of such a difficult one, exposed to such shocks, because these shocks are now very much in terms of renewable energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u303	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, Mr Ireneus Zosta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, print no. 1733. The aim of the proposed law is to link the unit replacement fee with the market prices of property rights resulting from certificates of origin for energy from renewable energy sources defined inter alia. as green certificates. This solution will make the certification market more flexible and, in the long term, reduce their oversupply by changing the amount of the unit replacement fee as a structural component of the system of support for renewable energy sources. The payment of a replacement fee is an alternative to the obligation to redeem energy certificates. Energy sellers can also do their duty otherwise by paying a substitute fee to the state fund. However, apart from a few exceptions, they do not do so. This mechanism has been permanently blocked by the conclusion of long-term contracts with the so-called. Sewn energy price levels of green certificates. These agreements have also become attractive collaterals for loans provided by banks for investment in RES. Instead of giving the opportunity to buy a cheap certificate on the stock exchange, non-sessional transactions with very expensive certificates are carried out today at prices from PLN 200 to PLN 300, when the replacement fee is currently PLN 300.03 per megawatt hour and green certificates can be bought today on the stock exchange for less than PLN 30. [[Voice from the room: 20 PLN.]] Twenty-four zlotys, that's right. Upon entry into force of the amendment, the replacement fee will be 25%. more than the market price of certificates from the last year, as in 2016 green certificates cost around 74 PLN. After the entry into force of the Act, the substitute fee should fall from PLN 300.03 to PLN 90.95 per megawatt hour. Thus, there will be an impulse to buy cheaper certificates on the stock exchange. Demand will begin to emerge, resulting in a slow increase in certificate prices. This will also reduce the market oversupply of certificates, which currently amounts to more than 22.5 TWh. However, there may be some danger for investors of renewable energy sources who have previously concluded long-term contracts with sellers obliged to sell certificates. It is likely that it may be difficult for both parties to renegotiate contracts or, worse than that, to settle disputes on a judicial basis on the basis of the provisions of the Civil Code, in particular Article. 357 The Civil Code, in which the rebus sic stantibus clause was formulated. It will be a long and difficult process. Some investors in the RES sector, especially smaller ones, may face a loss of liquidity in their businesses as a result of the entry into force of the Act and lose the possibility of repaying loans to finance the construction of renewable energy installations. But there may also be problems for banks, including those of the state that lent these investments. The beneficiary of the Act will become mainly energy companies with the participation of the State Treasury, primarily ENERGY, but also Tauron, Enea, PGE, which concluded in previous years price-deficit long-term contracts, whose prices differ significantly from market prices. Today, the differences between contractual and market prices must be paid out of their own pockets, often hundreds of millions of zlotys per year. It is important that this law does not create chaos on the market and finally introduces a very expected stabilisation for all its participants. The beneficiary of the Act will not only be the RES industry, not only banks, energy companies and industry, but above all citizens who expect stable and secure energy prices. The Free and Solidarnia Circle through the bill submitted, bearing in mind that we are still, I hope, in the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, having a substantive discussion on the analysis of all aspects. It was so unfortunate - yesterday was a committee meeting - that representatives of the social side were not guilty of their own fault, also, of course, not because of the committee itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They couldn't attend the meeting. Perhaps today we will be able to discuss all aspects at the meeting, which is ahead of us, so that the final shape of this law corresponds to all participants in the renewable energy market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. There are 14 people on the list of people who signed up to ask a question. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, once again, we are dealing with the law of the series: the parliamentary project without public consultation, which is a quick process. No wonder, before he was a government with mandatory stocks, also without consulting even the institutions concerned, the UOKiK. Minister, there is a change in the rules on state aid in this parliamentary project. Is it not necessary, in the light of these changes, to notify the European Commission of the provisions of this project? And a question for the applicant. Who exactly is the author of this project? Is that what the ENERGA media reports? Maybe she's the designer of this bill, the initiator of this project? Who's the main beneficiary you had in mind, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Preparing this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u307	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the Renewable Energy Act will change one of the key elements of the green power plant support system. Their owners, in addition to selling electricity, make money on green certificates granted to them. Energy companies buy them back on behalf of their customers. The main beneficiary of the amendments to the Act is Gdansk ENERGY. This State Treasury company has long-term contracts for the purchase of certificates from wind farm owners. Two other state-owned companies, Tauron and Enea, have already concluded such agreements and are in process with investors. I have a question for Members of the applicants, and there is a whole crowd of them signed under this law: Will investors now be able to challenge the Treasury? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the European Union's position on this solution? Doesn't the substitute fee limit the increase in certificate quotations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u309	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Small renewable energy companies believe that the bill is scandalously prosecuted, and rightly so, because they also have no voice. Minister, small companies are asking if the government will increase its obligation to surrender green certificates. Yes or no? How? It's for your applicant. On what basis is she convinced that reducing the replacement fee will liquidate the excess green certificates on the market? Will the price of green certificates increase or fall? Madam President, I would like to ask you to know whether, according to your knowledge, renewable energy sources are currently profitable for small businesses. I'm asking for specifics. And one more thing, please. Will we, as Poland, fulfil the 20% renewable share obligation in 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy sources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u312	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We see that the subject of renewable energy sources is extremely important, and I therefore have a question about the content of the amendment to the Renewable Energy Sources Act, which reads: Will the proposed law introduce solutions to facilitate the sustainable development of our country in the area of renewable energy sources? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u313	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to address the Deputy Minister of Energy because, as I understand it, the Ministry is, however, an essential resource for the creation of this parliamentary project. That's how we understood it during the committee meeting. Minister, what is the real purpose of this regulation because it will not solve the issue of certificates of origin, do we all know? That's not the point. This regulation is only a barrier to the growth of certificates of origin. I don't know if that's what we're trying to do today to establish this barrier at a very low level, a level that doesn't provide any benefit to the industry. I understand, Minister, you're not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is interested in the fate of this industry whether you do not care about its development, but even if the Ministry is not interested in it, it should at least try to pursue a balanced policy on these entrepreneurs to a minimum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u315	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Modern Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year Law and Justice introduced an amendment to the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, which prevented thousands of Poles from investing in small domestic wind power stations as well as photovoltaics. And you are currently making it difficult for entrepreneurs to invest in renewable energy sources. And question: Is the Government of Law and Justice even interested in developing clean energy in Poland? However, will she insist only on investing in coal-based black energy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u317	Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u318	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Will the amendment discussed today be linked to an increase in the scope of the obligation to redeem certificates of origin from today's 15,35% ? Do you know that the RES industry - whether wind energy, photovoltaics or water energy - will agree to increase the level of this obligation to 19,35% in 2018? Do you have any idea if the Ministry is going to issue a regulation on this matter, and you have until the end of August? Raising the level of this obligation is a prerequisite for this reform. Without this amendment, it will unfortunately bring more bad than good and kill everyone, and bigger and smaller investors, and will be another step among many that you are doing until the beginning of your term of office to destroy renewable energy sources in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u319	Mr Stefan Romecki, please, another question, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u320	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one brief question. By what date will the Ministry of Energy implement the announcements of the new government law on RES? As I know life and experience shows, I fear that this term will not be called autumn - winter - summer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u321	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir. Another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u322	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The creation of constantly new RES regulations is certainly not conducive to the development of this industry. However, such areas require a certain degree of stability, especially since some of these regulations arise in a strong detachment from reality. We have another parliamentary project, another extraordinary mode, another project without public consultation. Why are you afraid of public consultation? Why are you afraid of entrepreneurs' opinions and conversations with them? What would be wrong if the industry could comment on this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u323	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Renewable energy is an energy that causes some problems with transport, and it also causes significant costs for transport, such as biomass. Minister, is there any work going on in the European Union on the more local use of this energy? This is so important that these problems that occur in energy lines, those problems that occur, for example, with the transport of biomass, with the quality of this energy, could be easily solved. I know that these are not national solutions, but regulations of the European Union. Hence my question: Is there any such work going on? Thank you very much, Marshal, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u325	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, green certificates cost PLN 24 per MWh. A year ago they cost 120 PLN per MWh. You organize RES auctions for installations that will only be created in the future, or have already been created, excluding only 2 or 3 years of operation. Minister, where's the host of this topic? Why aren't you announcing migration auctions? You're waiting for these current power plants, often young people, to go bankrupt. You save, for example. biogas plants, creating special blue certificates. Why don't you create separate certificates for photovoltaics and windmills? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are fundamental questions. Minister, if you do not answer these questions in the affirmative way, you will kill young, startling, hopeful investments of young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u327	Please ask the question by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The thing about life is, if anyone's gonna make money, it's probably gonna be someone who's gonna lose. Here there have been diwags on this subject, which companies with the participation of the State Treasury will earn on this project. I have a question about one of the Treasury companies. By chance, two and a half years ago, some assets were put into liquidation. This applies to the first trading company. In view of the claims directed by Cyprus-American investors against Tauron, by some chance ca. Seven, nine months ago, this liquidation was stopped. These companies have been reactivated and, at the same time, such a change in the energy field is proposed. I therefore have a question for your Members of the applicants. Isn't this some random sequence of events that such legislative decisions after the reactivation of this company are taken in favour of an investor from a particular circle, [[♪ The bell ♪]] even though he had previously attempted to make claims from bilateral agreements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform Club. Last question in this section of the Sejm meeting point. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u330	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am impressed by the Members of the applicants, because this is very detailed matter. I think that since Mrs Malik and Mrs Szczypińska presented this complicated model to us in this project, they must really be very well-informed on this issue. However, I would like to repeat the question from the committee, because yesterday, Mrs Malik said that she was unable to hear the opinion of the Energy Regulatory Office. Did you get that opinion? However, it is also an important regulator on how the electricity generation and distribution policy will work. I have a question for the Minister: Did the Minister take part in this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second question: Could you tell us when we will know what energy mix in our country will be in force for the next decades? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u331	Please, last question, because you were on the list, Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Renewable energy sources should be a fundamental direction for the development of our energy. It is an inexhaustible source, unlike conventional fuels. Why are you once again amending the Renewable Energy Act by means of a parliamentary project without proper analysis, without proper impact assessment, when you can see with the naked eye that the project comes from the Ministry? Do you realize that once again you are introducing negative regulations on energy security of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u333	I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Andrzej Piotrowski to answer the question raised. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A very large number of questions. I hope that I can answer all the questions in a comprehensive manner. I will try to keep the order in which you asked these questions. I will start by asking Kukiz15 whether the effects of this regulation will affect everyone in the same way and whether they will embrace everyone on similar terms. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we see that there is a significant turnover in the over-the-counter market. Therefore, there is a large proportion of RES market participants, which operates on a much different basis than others. This regulation, which is prepared here, may change this, but does not directly concern transaction prices. It concerns a substitute fee, i.e. the price that the obliged entity would possibly bear by paying into the national fund's account. Therefore, this does not apply by nature to all things, whereas this price is actually some kind of mechanism which was intended to encourage trading on the stock market. As you yourself have quoted here, there is a huge gap between the price of the substitute fee and the actual turnover. The method of regulation proposed by Members makes us think of the following. Since, for at least 4 years, certification prices have been falling in practice and the replacement fee has been used to a minimum extent - there was about 3 million last year, it can be said that it is essentially within the limits of statistical error - therefore there is certainly a problem here. If we bring it closer to the market, but, ladies and gentlemen, 1/4 of the average price from the previous market, it is very much, therefore, if we introduce this level, we will cause that perhaps the mechanism that was used for some, I don't know, strange purposes will cease to function for these purposes and we will actually come closer to the market. I stress that this change is really about the fees paid to NFOŚ. Therefore, all these demands or questions that referred to the fate of investors... Ladies and gentlemen, these investors are not investors in NFOŚ. The Sejm regulates in this law a completely different area of life. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that this is actually a short project, it is a project that maybe, and that is what we hope, when assessing the impact, will lead significantly to the functioning of market mechanisms. All the more surprising are such collective voices representing basically the same opinions that have come to us in the form of opinions of PWEA, which represent large wind investors, and the Polish Bank Association. This is not the whole market and it seems to me that we should actually look at the fate of those who are not able to sell certificates today because, as I note, most of it is in non-sessional trading. Ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy sources as a stable profit. If we are talking about entrepreneurs who want to base a stable profit on an instrument such as certificates that have been introduced, which are a form of grant, then we are dealing with some kind of confusion of concepts. If this were to be a stable profit, it would function as the auctions currently being launched. Here is the market element at the beginning when the price is set, and then there is a situation in which it is already consumed at the pre-established price. Certificates were not such an element and are therefore considered to be dying in most European countries. And so... [[It's just a name, it's a difference in name, Minister.]] What's the name difference? Between the certificates and the auction? [[Then why aren't those who are certified balancing?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are organising auctions at the moment, and there are also auctions in which it will be possible to move. For the time being, we have not provided those who already have such levels of public aid that there is virtually nothing to finance them. In other cases, however, these auctions were launched for the first time, they took place, there will be another one in the autumn, and significant amounts of energy will be concentrated in this way. At this point in time, on the other hand, the environment calls for increased certification obligations. Well, it's either-or. [[But Minister, if he undresses a 2-year-old installation and builds a new one, it's completely different. Why is that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if someone buys a computer today and someone else uses a computer five years ago, it also works completely differently. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? All right. Prices are also changing rapidly, both photovoltaic panels and wind turbines, and the situation is changing. That's why an auction system was invented to introduce some kind of stability. The certificates were an operational grant and were a mechanism that led, among others, to. to the results we have today. Because these entrepreneurs are still functioning, we're trying this system, even though we think it's dying... We can't say okay, he's gone from tomorrow. Therefore, we are trying to make some small moves with the help of Members here... We have been having different discussions with members of the PiS club for a long time, but not only with all the other stakeholders, and this initiative has emerged. [[Voice from the room: Where do you have these conversations?]] If you want an address, I'll give it to you: ul. 6. Okay, I suggest I stick to those questions that were asked during the time you had. Mrs Lenartowicz asked here whether there was a concern about the distortion of the RES market. Ladies and gentlemen, this market is disturbed and we are trying to correct it in some way at this point. Therefore, it is difficult for us here to assume that it can be more difficult, even more disturbing. Entrepreneurs who have worked in the RES industry so far have used certificates are not satisfied with this. So either we can do nothing, or we can try to do something. You've also asked questions... I'm practically going to... I'm gonna jump a little bit, but on the subject. Will the obligation for buying-in be changed? I'd like to highlight one thing. It's not like entrepreneurs are gonna say that much, and the minister is gonna listen. This is what one of the Members said. This is an element that is linked, on the other hand, to charges passed on to citizens. Therefore, Mr President, you must be aware that, as something increases, electricity prices are also increasing for all citizens. And it must be said very openly that Polish citizens, unlike the citizens of richer countries, are not prepared to do the same. So at this point, we have to try to find a solution that if we try to remove this mark-up from the market, we will also reduce the pressure on prices. And this element that appears here is this kind of solution. If, at this time, such an amendment to the RES Act passes, there is a good reason why, in the near future, before the end of August, regulation should be introduced which will increase the obligation to buy. You asked me why you were in such a hurry. When's August? We're supposed to wait till fall, right? [[Voice from the room: next year.]] Next year? There you go. How many entrepreneurs at this point... Who's gonna guarantee they're gonna live? [[You have 400 zlotys at the auction with a warranty for 15 years.]] [[Mr. Minister, don't talk to...]] Good. [[Voice from the room: Waste of time...]] Ladies and gentlemen, a public hearing. We have the voices of entrepreneurs at the moment, they arrive, the voice of the Polish Bank Association, there are the voices of PWEA, there are the voices you repeat. Therefore, I think, with such a simple provision, that this element of the hearing, which will appear in addition to the agreement committee, will actually occur. As far as the destruction of civil energy is concerned, so-called. Prosumers, ladies and gentlemen, 21,000. new installations have been created since the entry into force of the Act. I congratulate you - those who know math, which calls it destruction. Wind energy has developed by 200 MW since the entry into force of the new law. Ladies and gentlemen, the power of the block in Ostrołęka - and it will be built for a few years - is what? One mega, right? It's the 200 mega that's not enough. [[Okay, that's it.]] So are we gonna destroy it or is that what this is about? I'm so glad you're supporting this government. Ladies and gentlemen, reduce the price increase of certificates of origin by this substitute fee. Again, the argument not from this fairy tale, we found it in the opinion of PWEA. There, in fact, cassandra visions are developed, but there is no causal link. Ladies and gentlemen, the decline in certificate prices for 4 years has led us to believe that the current system was a poorly constructed system. This amendment is therefore intended to change this. Mr Kasprzyk of PSL claims that there is no spirit for governments to support RES. That's what I'm quoting again, the number of installations that were created. Compare this with the past times when Mr Kasprzak believed that this spirit existed. As regards the changes to the rules that Mr Krzysztof Gadowski of the Civic Platform has carried out, these changes to the rules take place as in a number of other cases. There is a proposal from Members, there may be a government proposal. The government proposal, which will be in autumn, is a very comprehensive proposal. This proposal deals with a rapid response to the phenomena that are happening, is geared towards introducing mechanisms that are much more market-oriented than before, so it may turn out to be for many small entrepreneurs, and perhaps even larger ones, a kind of rescue may not be saved, but at least relief before they can go into a different system that will provide them with stability for further action. Will investors be able to challenge the Treasury, you ask. Ladies and gentlemen, they would have had something to ask for. As I say, this substitute fee doesn't apply to investors. This substitute fee applies to undertakings which are required to buy in and to the beneficiary of NFOŚ. Therefore, anyone can sue, but we do not find the basis here for this. Wouldn't a substitute fee so reduced reduce turnover? I mean, why would she have an effect on a turnover reduction at this point? One quarter of the difference between the price that can be purchased on the stock exchange and the one that should be paid is probably enough motivation if there are no non-market bonds to buy those certificates on the stock market. And that's really what this is about right now. Ladies and gentlemen, how will this regulation affect the increase in turnover and possible prices? First of all, there will be some noticeable amount of money that has so far been in the defence of the out-of-session. If the money supply is increased to a specific element, if, at the same time, without increasing the burden on electricity users, the obligations of operators to buy certificates can be increased, then we will achieve the result that is at stake for all. We will not burden citizens, and we will improve the fate of small entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, will the draft law facilitate the sustainable development of RES? In the opinion of the Ministry, it will make it easier in the sense that a certain part of this market will not solve all the problems, and among others. There will therefore be an extensive amendment in the autumn. She is already in consultation, sir, so this Member's opinion that he has never, in fact, mentioned the next three seasons is far unfair, because this law is already in consultation, and you can find it on the RCL pages if anyone is interested. Mr Gryglas asked what the real purpose was. Well, that's a little bit of a question... [[I know now.]] Good. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień asked if this would enable small entrepreneurs to develop. That's it. We assume that, above all, the smaller RES suppliers will improve the conditions because they do not participate in over-the-counter trading. Mr Michał Stasiński asked if the bill, this new regulation will be introduced by the end of August. As I say, if we have reason to believe that there will be no increase in the obligation for consumers, that is what I assume will be the decision of the Minister of Energy. By what date? The revision of RES, you asked Stefan Romecki. I've already answered that. Why no consultation? Ladies and gentlemen, this is such a simple provision that extensive consultation here is perhaps an excessive happiness, although the agreement process will be maintained. Opinions are coming in right now. If there is any significant comment that suggests that there is really a need to modify this, then of course this modification will occur, but for the time being only general statements about the general end of the world are emerging, we find it difficult to take this into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u335	Is that all, Minister, or is that all? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Excuse me, I'm almost done, but just a second. Ladies and gentlemen, are there work in the European Union on local energy consumption? Thank you very much for this question, because yes, they are rolling, and partly because in Poland started very intense, let's call it cluster movement when it comes to energy clusters. We had an idea for the so-called. Local biomass. Unfortunately, this idea is very strongly criticised by the European Commission and, in principle, we do not have a chance to carry it out. On the other hand, the use of local resources in clusters, the use of these resources in terms of both RES sources, RES substrates and entrepreneurship, as well as, generally speaking, the opportunities to organise themselves, are included in the RED II package, which is currently being processed. Here I must say that the Commission listens very carefully to the voice of Poland. We have the most experience in the European Union, and this is confirmed not only by DG Energy representatives. Even recently there was a meeting at which Commissioner Sefčovič was repeats what we are proud of in our own way, and we encourage you to be proud too, because this is a post-political action in which there are actually a lot of people involved with an initiative from less urbanized areas, because there is the best place for clusters. Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't there separate certificates for photovoltaics and winds like blue certificates? Firstly, because the previous amendment created an instrument for biogas plants, because they were in a state of collapse, it was a few dozen of them, while this is a dying instrument, so it does not make sense to introduce further elements. We have introduced the auction and we assume that this is the instrument that will be used to carry out the market on the model much more stable. The issue of reactivating the First Commercial Company. There's no connection here. I wouldn't like to speak on behalf of Tauron. I don't think this company is being reactivated, it's actually a matter of dispute. I would just like to point out that the representatives of this company, also of American capital, decided to sanctify President Trump's visit to Poland, announcing that they would be bringing the trial to the Polish entity and to the mother's company. They gave me a very large amount of money. This does not create a good atmosphere when it comes to cooperation. What's more, Tauron doesn't confirm that he's getting a lawsuit like this, so something interesting is going on here just in the media realm. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of fact, what energy mix will be in force? That's a very valid question. I would say that we would be very happy to respond to them at a time when all the factors affecting decisions will be known, the final form of the winter package, the final form of the charges that will be imposed on emissions. 'Cause it's kind of like that. influences our decisions and to what extent we will be able to maintain Polish energy on the natural Polish raw material, coal, and in which we will have to reach for other solutions, so as to ultimately create an energy system that will provide energy to all those in need of energy to citizens and entrepreneurs whenever they need it, and will not expose them to the costs they will not be able to bear. That's what I'd like to finish my speech with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs Ewa Malik has also spoken. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u336	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of what we have just heard here from the Minister's mouth... Nothing to add, nothing to say. In fact, it's hard for me to find a minister who knows this matter pretty well, in this situation, to add something. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite you to join us for this. We have a committee meeting in a moment. In the committee, we will consider the amendments that you have tabled, and there will also be an opportunity to raise some problems, issues that may not have been addressed here. I therefore propose that we move the discussion on this extremely difficult matter to the committee meeting. I would like to thank, first of all, Members of the House who understand the public interest well, who have done well and have done well. Regarding Mr Gadowski's question, I can only add that the project was prepared in the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. It has certainly been prepared by the Members of the applicant. I can assure you of that. Of course, it was not without the help of experts. I think it's obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all those who have spoken, expressed their views and asked questions. I hope you are pleased that the Minister has tried to answer these questions in such detail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u337	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before we move on to the next item of today's sitting, I still have some information. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the draft law amending the Tax Order, the Public Finance Act and the Law introducing the Law on National Tax Administration. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on packaging and packaging waste management and some other laws (print No. 1730). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurk, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Packaging and Packaging Waste Management Act and some other laws aims to bring Polish law into line with the provisions of Directive 2015/720 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It refers to reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. The main amendment of the current legislation on packaging and packaging waste contained in the draft law is the introduction of provisions on so-called. recycling charges. These provisions transpose the Directive under the option chosen by Poland to adopt instruments ensuring that, from 1 January 2018, light plastic bags will not be offered free of charge at points of sale of goods or products. The following measures have therefore been adopted in the framework of the transposition of Directive 2015/720. A recycling charge was introduced to be charged by the retail or wholesale sales entity to the customers of a lightweight plastic shopping bag. The maximum rate of charge may not exceed 1 PLN and the applicable rate will be determined after public consultation in the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment. If a certain fee rate does not reduce the consumption of plastic bags, the Minister of the Environment will be able to increase the current rate no more than the maximum amount specified in the Act, i.e. 1 PLN. Very light plastic shopping bags, so-called. sampling shall be exempted from the recycling levy provided that it is required for hygienic reasons or offered as a basic packaging of food in bulk if such action prevents food from being wasted. Directive 2015/720 requires Member States to report to the European Commission on the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags per capita. The Minister for the Environment will draw up such reports on the basis of information on the impact of the recycling levy. In addition to the transposition of Directive 2015/720, the draft law also provides for changes resulting from the assessment of the application of the provisions of the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act in force since 2014. These changes are primarily orderly in nature and the most important of them are the exclusion from the application of the provisions of the Act of Entrepreneurs who, during a given calendar year, have placed on the market products in packaging and subsequently made exports or intra-Community deliveries of these packages or products in packaging; the inclusion of the organisation of the economic self-government, i.e. agreements between the Marshall of the Province and traders marketing products in multi-material packaging or dangerous products in packaging among entities which may request documents for the recovery of waste and recycling; the clarification of the provisions setting out the deadline for the application and issuing of DPO and DPR documents and the clarification of the rules for those documents in respect of packaging waste from households; the clarification of the rules concerning the external audit of economic operators issuing recovery and recycling documents primarily within the scope of the audit competence of the auditor and the consequences for the audit of irregularities; the introduction in Annex 2 to the draft bill of models for the calculation of the product charge taking into account the obligation for the organisation to clear the recovery of packaging of packaging from households. It's about recovery, 50% recycling. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions proposed in the draft law transposing the Directive are intended to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. In Poland, according to estimates, each resident consumes about 250-300 plastic bags of various kinds. The life cycle of such a bag is extremely short and is usually several minutes long, which is actually how much time it takes to get home from shopping. Foil bags then become waste that pollutes the environment, including the aquatic environment, threatening many species of animals, including marine animals. This fallout is extremely difficult to remove from the environment, while the experience of other European Union Member States indicates that this solution, i.e. the introduction of bag fees, effectively discourages the use of these bags and reduces this use by up to 90%. In turn, additional amendments to the current legislation have been introduced in order to clarify them and facilitate their practical application and to prevent non-compliant activities from being applied by entities operating in the waste management market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is indeed a transposition of part of the provisions of EU directives into Polish law. The Minister has talked more about these lightweight plastic packages here. Indeed, according to what is happening in other European countries, it is worth introducing fees, some of which will go to the state budget and can then be allocated to environmental activities, but above all will encourage Poles to use reusable or greener packaging, such as paper or materials. This provision also allows the use of very light bags for packing bulk products or those for which hygiene obliges the use of such bags. However, a significant part of the provisions of this law concern the clarification and sealing of the provisions of the existing legislation on packaging and packaging waste management. Entrepreneurs themselves in this area have pointed to a huge gray area and the need to clarify the rules so as to eliminate entrepreneurs who are unfairly acting in this market. What has the bill done in this area? First, the reporting provisions are clarified. Entrepreneurs at committee meetings in discussions with Members have often pointed out that there are many actors who report, which have little to do with reality. Therefore, the possibility of greater control of these reports should, firstly, contribute to the elimination of unfair entrepreneurs from the market and, secondly, to the fact that we will eventually start to meet those recovery and recycling standards which impose on us The European Union, and in the near future. Another element is to settle the introduction of packages according to the same type of packaging and not only by weight. For all we know, it led to such pathology, that e.g. wood became the type of packaging product that was accounted for and replaced by all other types of products, although wood is in fact not so often used. Another element is to clarify the obligation to conduct public educational campaigns and possible penalties for not carrying out such campaigns. That's the element that's been missing so far. Another element that facilitates reporting is the voivodship marshal and the Minister of the Environment will publish in the Public Information Bulletin information about agreements and objectives achieved as a result of these agreements, and if they do not achieve these objectives, then it will be possible to calculate the product charge required for individual entrepreneurs. Another element that has so far failed concerns an external audit obligation in an undertaking which has not often been performed. In practice, the trader who did not carry out this audit could not have been punished. Here are the rules that give the marshal weapons in this case: not only penalties, but even the possibility of removing from the company register, which works in this way. It will be easier for entrepreneurs to switch from the form of paper reporting to the form of electronic reporting, which is agreed with the Ministry of Digitalisation. The definition of the marshal in charge was also amended. checks on undertakings introducing packaging or subsequent clearing on behalf of the introducing undertakings. Here the marshal of the voivodship, where such activity takes place, will be the competent marshal. This is intended to facilitate control of recovery and recycling activities in the voivodship. Until now, when the company was in another part of Poland, this was significantly difficult. It is also about the possibility for economic self-government organisations to reach agreement with marshals on the relevant documents and the question of representing companies introducing products in packaging. Exporters who export goods outside the Union or sell them to the Community shall also be facilitated. Then part of the reporting obligations will be removed, which should facilitate their activities. And the elements of punishing dishonest entrepreneurs. Some penalties have been reduced, in particular those related to the introduction of a new recycling levy on plastic bags. Here punishments have been greatly reduced, even several dozen times, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas higher penalties have been introduced for those traders who cheat, act illegally and instead of making recovery and recycling, actually often bury these goods or repeatedly turn the same papers. This law should contribute to the normalisation of this market, it should be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u341	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Civic Platform by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u342	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club sees the need to harmonise legislation with EU law. The issue of recycling charges should be discussed and worked in the environmental committee, and we therefore request that this project be referred to the committee. An important question to be asked during the work of this committee will be why the upper limit of the proverbial net charge of PLN 1 is proposed. Why don't you set a minimum charge? Do we really want to give the opportunity to sell plastic bags for 1 gr to large networks? Do we still want to be a dumpster in Europe? Public awareness of recycling is growing, but it is still extremely low compared to other Western European countries. Let me give you an example. The production of a foil bag takes 1 second, and the subsequent distribution takes between 300 years and 400 years. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe this is a very good time to start discussing the total cessation of sales of disposable plastic bags. More and more countries around the world prohibit their distribution or introduce high sales rates or high taxes on these packages, e.g. Ireland, Bulgaria or Denmark. This is a very good time to continue discussing public education on recycling and the use of re-use bags. The only thing that does not bring hope is the fact that we do not have a minister of environmental protection in Poland, we have a minister of environmental destruction. The Civic Platform Club requests that this project be sent to committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the law on packaging and waste management. The formal arrangements of the Act are based on the need to adapt Polish legislation to the rules in force in the European Union and result from an analysis of the application of the provisions of the Act adopted in mid-2013 and in force since 1 January 2014. The legal solutions adopted in the Act aim to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, but also to control the use, recovery and recycling of packaging. Therefore, the scope of the amendments concerns inter alia.First, the introduction of a recycling charge for lightweight plastic bags. This fee will be charged by the trader operating the retail or wholesale unit in which such bags are offered. Although this is the right solution, it may raise doubts about the amount of such a recycling charge. It can be assumed that it will not be small as it will constitute the revenue of the state budget. Monitoring of the collection of recycling charges will be carried out by the State Trade Inspection; secondly, the extension of the catalogue of cases in which the provisions of the Act do not apply when packaging products are placed on the market. The entrepreneur will not have to apply the provisions of the Act in the field of e.g. ensure the recovery and recycling of packaging waste in respect of packaging in which products have been exported from the country; thirdly, to specify a provision allowing the Marshall of a given voivodship to control the operator's activities in the recovery and recycling of packaging waste. This obligation will apply to the Marshal of the voivodship, where such activities are carried out, not to the Marshal of the voivodship, where the seat of the entrepreneur is located. A number of new definitions are also introduced into the Act, which will make packaging and packaging waste management more rational and more effective. These changes concern, among other things, the new meaning of the term of the public educational campaign. Namely, it is added that this campaign also covers information activities on waste arising from plastic bags. The Act also clarifies the way in which public educational campaigns are carried out on its own. Secondly, the amendment to the definition of dangerous substances refers to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. It aims to approximate the legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions of the Member States of the European Union. Provisions relating to the calculation of the product charge are also relevant in the case of failure by the placing on the market of the products in the packaging of the organisation for the recovery of the necessary data to comply with its statutory obligations. An undoubted weakness in this matter is the obligation on the organisation of economic self-government to report separately for each entrepreneur that it represents. It also gives businesses the possibility to keep electronic records on the consumption, recovery and recycling of packaging. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding the bill in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mrs Ewa Lieder to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission has moved to the second stage of the procedure against Poland due to the failure of our country to introduce an EU directive aimed at reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. It is therefore high time to introduce these regulations, especially since on average the Polish citizen consumes up to 270 of these lightweight plastic bags a year. The restriction includes plastic bags for the purchase of film with a thickness of less than 50 microns. The exception here is plastic bags necessary for hygienic reasons (for meat or cheese to weight) or when their use reduces food waste. In Ireland, the introduction of similar rules caused the consumption of plastic bags to fall by 95%, i.e. this action was successful and the money thus obtained was used to implement waste recycling projects. We very much hope that a similar effect will also be achieved in Poland. Poles are already partly used to advertising fees, which is why it will practically not be a huge revolution. Examples from other European Union countries show that the use of plastic bags can be significantly reduced and that it simply pays off. Definitely more restrictive, but also much more effective steps have been taken in France, where regulations have been introduced to prohibit shops from dispensing plastic disposable bags. We believe that this is the goal that Poland should also pursue in the future. The statistics are ruthless. Advertisements clog drains, often causing drowning during storms, or go to lakes, rivers, and seas. In the European Union, plastic bags are used up to 100 billion units per year. The Union's intention is that by the end of 2019 their consumption should not exceed 90 per person per year. The project refers to a public educational campaign, which we strongly support, because it is necessary to root down environmental concerns in the awareness of Poles and can be done through proper legal regulations. The mere imposition of bag fees may already have an impact on the mentality of environmental protection. According to the draft law, the fees are to be transferred by shops to the accounts of the Marshals of the voivodships, then the funds will be transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. 1% This money will be the income of the local government. According to the Marshal's Office of Podlaskie Voivodship, 1% revenue may not cover the increase in the cost of operating the system by the Marshals of voivodships due to a very large number of new units subject to obligations. The remaining appropriations are intended to finance actions related to waste management, prevention and environmental education. In addition, it will be mandatory for sellers to keep records of all plastic bags sold and to report annually to the Marshall of the voivodship. It is also important to take into account the voices of entrepreneurs, for whom changing the deadline for charging is very important. The initial version of the project assumed that it would be until January 2019, but after the adoption of the project by the government, a change was made which introduced new obligations from next year, which is not the result of and does not involve the EU Directive. For entrepreneurs, the new law entails implementation costs for changes in fiscal cash registers and the need to renegotiate packaging contracts. This may affect consumers who shop at the store - that is, they will simply increase prices, slightly but will increase - which will indirectly cover these costs. Entrepreneurs fear that they will have too little time to set up a system for the settlement of monthly recycling charges and for the modification of spot systems. In the context of the public consultation, a number of comments were submitted to the project, only a small part of which was adopted. Although the project is not perfect, we are ready to support it, because the provisions transposing this EU directive into Polish law should have been implemented long ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u347	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Polish People's Party, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the law on packaging and packaging waste contained in print No. 1730. It is good, even very good that the government is proposing a bill regulating the use of plastic bags. A subject difficult to correct and effective regulation, this is what life shows, but necessary if we want to achieve declared levels of plastic recovery and move towards where the whole civilized world is going. The reading of the proposed changes, however, suggests that the simplest things are sometimes the most difficult to write down. On the one hand, because the definition of a shopping bag, on the other hand, the creation of an efficient system for charging and collecting a recycling levy. It's a good thing we're taking a step in that direction. I think that this action, I am convinced of it, will also support and actively engage in the work on this project. I would like to point out that - not for the first time - when adopting a central decision, the government is actively involving local governments in solving problems. And I don't know if it's a coincidence, or if it's okay... I am convinced that it will be so good that here the tasks are directed towards the local government. The law will transform the local government into a danin collector for the government. My previous speaker pointed out, here she spoke about the indicators that relate to the resources that local governments will have, and the remainder, a significant majority of these amounts, will be put at the disposal of the government. I wonder if the National Environmental Fund, as a recipient of the fees collected by the Marshals, as a kind of monopoly created in this way, can cope with the effective spending of the collected funds. But I think we'll have a chance to talk about it while we're working on the project. It is also important that we realise that the introduction of this system, the need for a system of monthly billing, recycling charges it is also the need to modify the work of financial services in enterprises. That's not what it looks like in a big company. However, we need to realise that small, medium and micro-enterprises or trading points, whatever we call them, economic operators also need to implement measures to meet these issues in appropriate periods, whether reporting or billing. We can still think - I think it would be good - about the promotional action, how to lead it and what conditions to take, so that it has the right effect. But there can also be a lot of situations here. It's out of the question, Minister, by the way, what the resort is planning on doing about PET bottles and glass bottles. Or maybe instead of introducing a commercial tax for large stores or large shops, it is worth to charge them with the obligation to run recovery points, as is the case for example. in Germany, because sometimes we hear from this speaker referring to solutions with neighbors, and well. In conclusion, we are in favour of passing on the project for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u349	Thank you very much. Six Members were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Therefore, would any of you like to join the list? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on Changes in the Supreme Court is an initiative of Members, and the government - a curiosity situation - was dealt with in plastic bags. I ask the representative of the government to explain the importance of changes in both laws for Poland and Poles. I would also like to ask you about other measures that will limit the littering of our country and bring recycling standards closer to Western Europe standards. We've still been behind for decades. The commercial bill won't change that. After all, plastic packaging burns in domestic furnaces. This is the most common recycling process. There's smog, we inhale poisonous substances. I've already been on the case, for example. Bail for plastic PET bottles, but somehow the work doesn't go in that direction. I wanted to ask if the government was going to post bail for plastic bottles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the representative of the environmental department to present an action plan to increase the recycling of plastic waste. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u351	Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Brief question: How much will this bill cost Poles? Because changes always end up touching Poles' pockets. Theoretically, you only introduce a recycling fee, but the bill has more than 200 pages. So I'm asking if it's in WW. draft law has no additional burdens for Poles. Please reply that there will be no additional charges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! This law is very much about limiting the grey waste zone. Are these provisions that have been introduced here fulfilling all the demands of the economic environments that spoke about the need to eliminate these leaky solutions? That's the way I'm gonna put it. Were there any additional requests that were not included here? Some of you have spoken here about the fact that the regional government is burdened with some tasks, but it is worth reminding that the regional government already has serious environmental tasks and these regulations that we are talking about now, in fact facilitate the fulfilment of tasks by the Marshall of the voivodship, there is only an additional task related to the recycling of light bags. The criticism was that the funds from this recycling charge would go to the central budget, but it seems that the educational campaign, which was to be addressed to Poles, must be nationwide in order for it to be effective, and on a mass scale, so much more resources will be needed and it will be much easier to do this centrally than if each [[♪ The bell ♪]] from voivodships it was supposed to do this separately in its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u356	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The words by Mr Piontkowski to promote the use of re-use bags among Poles were comforting. Therefore, there was the position of my club, which I had the pleasure of presenting to just promote this proposal. Therefore, there will be a question to the Minister, ad vocem of the PSL question, namely: Why should we buy if we could just be a leader in Europe and simply prohibit the use of plastic bags, promoting the use of reusable bags among Poles? Such bags, each of us knows that, can serve us for a year and longer, because you can just wash them and that's it. And we're not gonna have plastic, like a friend. She mentioned burning in the furnaces, and I know we're dealing with this situation. My question to the Minister. Do you guys even take it, I get it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] you need to adapt the rules to EU rules, but have you ever considered the idea of banning the use, selling plastic bags in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u358	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about a reconnaissance on the current scale, what it looks like today. Do you have such discernment as regards the bag fees? I know from practice because I go to different shops, that actually almost everywhere, somewhere you pay - once less, once more, especially in these networks, not everyone, but you pay. The law does not provide for a lower limit, but the upper limit, which is a little dangerous, because the effect can be none. If the ministry has any idea what it looks like today, I'd ask for that information. I think what Mr Cimoszewicz has proposed... actually this lower limit would be necessary. Please tell us what scale is today when it comes to these handbags used for payment and free of charge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u359	Thank you very much. And last question - Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The subject of plastic bags has been processed for many years. That's the subject that we've been taking up since 10 and 15 years ago. Today, technology has gone much further. In Poland, at many universities, we develop the technology of sugar-based biodegradable bags. These are bags that unfold over a four-five-year period. Minister, I have a question: Can the Ministry see this direction and the possibility of introducing this? I know there's a tax problem because if you show one kind of bag without VAT, how do you just promote these sugar-based bags? Don't you think that we could reduce taxes on companies that produce such bags, so they would be cheaper and naturally displace plastic bags without these artificial burdens, and then we would have a clean environment and our native technology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u361	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health to speak, excuse me, Ministry of the Environment, but that's probably what I'm thinking about health, because it's as if they don't relate to the health of such things. Minister Sławomir Mazurek. You're welcome. [[Maybe we'll be better off with this bill.]] That's what it's all about. It's probably everybody's health, and that's where I came up with this ministry, but it's the Ministry of the Environment. Here we go, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for these questions and thank you for the positions of the clubs. I hope this is such a testimony that we want to work diligently on this project. I hope that Mr Marshal... the chairman of the environmental committee will urgently convene a committee meeting so that we can proceed urgently on this project. There were a few words about this urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a question here about... We are in this situation today when we are negotiating a circular economy package, this waste package. There are a number of activities involved. We'll probably implement it next year. What is important in terms of meeting the 50% target is very important recycling by 2020 is what happened on 1 July. On 1 July, we introduced, in accordance with ex ante conditions, a selective collection in accordance with the Partnership Agreement with the European Union, to which we committed in 2014. Selective collection of waste - today 50% Municipalities in Poland are already ready to introduce this selective collection into material fractions plus biodegradable waste. This law, which deals with the reduction of plastic bags, is part of the trend in which we look at waste as raw materials and in how it is used, but also very important preparation for recycling. Let me refer to this last question about starch-based technology, about sugars. This is a very good solution for the environment, but from the perspective of achieving the goals that we have today, namely reducing the amount of waste by introducing it for reuse, recycling and preparing for reuse... However, this makes such bags a little difficult in this whole recycling process and they make the process a little difficult, i.e. This requires increased efforts from recyclers in this area, but of course the initiative is valuable and we need to look for innovation, because the circular economy, because recycling is a great area for innovation and this is clearly included in the plan for responsible development. There was also a question here... Maybe it's pretty late. This is where it says the bill has 200 pages. He's 20. This is a bill. And when it comes to ways not to limit, not to raise burdens for Poles, we have here an example bag of just multi-use, which you just have. By going shopping with her, we do not pay for the foil, which really then increases our obligations with regard to this regulation on the segregation of waste, preparation and to the yellow container of referral of this film. And that would be good, but unfortunately some of these films are blown away by the wind, and, as some Members have said here, it goes to places that are not entirely destined for it, it gets into the environment, it clogs the wells. This is a serious problem. Mr Piontkowski's question about the grey zone. Of course, this law transposes, but it also clarifies the rules against appearances. This is where it came from. I am just encouraging you to participate actively in the work of the committee. Many of these doubts will be resolved because, unfortunately, from my analysis of your statements, it turns out that some of your statements referred to the earlier version of the project. There's no burden on marshals here, there's no reporting here that would burden entrepreneurs. So I think that this in-depth and active work in the committee will show it, because then we can all sit on this really short project, but at the same time so important. I, on the one hand, am glad that this activity is here and this call. Let me remind you that these last eight years have been a great opportunity to do something about it, too, right? It was a great opportunity to immediately introduce a selective collection regulation and immediately take the measures that France had already taken in terms of restrictions. And there were very big ambitions. Somehow we didn't manage to do it then, I understand, but by criticizing us, please also take into account that we are not or want to be ministers of servants who act oppressively. We want to encourage Poles to recycle, we want to encourage Poles to take action to protect the environment, we want to reach deep into Polish culture, we want to prevent waste, which before the introduction of the culture of consumption was very much included and is included in our culture. And to that we will want to appeal, just respecting Poles, seeing that they can count and respect resources, reach with information, but also take this into account. And, Mr, step by step, just encouraging, by showing these possibilities, using multi-use bags that can actually be washed, you can use... And certainly this type of bag, not only this type, but very different, we will also promote it. And they're already to be purchased in stores today. There was a question about this scale. A lot of stores run this kind of thing. Professor Jan Szyszko, Minister of the Environment, when we were working on this project, sent me on a mission, with a mission, in many places such as bazaars, those places that are really going to be concerned, but also shops, just walk around and see how people react to these kinds of solutions. I've talked to a lot of people from spot points, through clients - of course, as so-called. Gray client, I didn't introduce myself - to have a full view. And in fact, among the Poles, among your friends, with whom you can have a word... It will turn out that we are already used to it in many of these shops. Maybe not everywhere, but at many points it works. Of course, there are delicacies, even Polish ones, which promote paper bags. So, some solution, some sense of that is very important. But there is a need to introduce this fee, to introduce this incentive. I hope there isn't really any influence, because everyone just chooses a multi-use bag. And if they do... Because we do know that this is a process, which I assume is that some means will be that they will serve a good cause. With regard to the issue of bans, of course, the circular economy assumes that waste does not arise at all, so if we look at the ambitions of the European Commission, we must bear in mind that somewhere, in fact, at some point, our culture will also mature to not use such bags, but this is a process that will take place. There used to be no plastic bags, there used to be no commercials. There were times when we used to walk and advertise one brand or another. Well, it's still... Those days are over. And please note that this process is still taking place. I believe very strongly in Poles that this will work too. There's a question about bail here, too. It was one of the newspapers that brought up the subject. We are getting various suggestions, just that it is worth to assume that this is some kind of tool. We will also analyse this because we are looking for all solutions and work with all stakeholders to find the best solutions so that the circular economy is a development opportunity for Poland, for non-urbanised areas, but we do not want to act, we do not want to act oppressively, we just want to encourage through incentives, through cooperation with all interested parties. Thank you very much and I call for urgent work on the Environment Committee. Here is the question, on the one hand, because I hear from you, your Members, that this is an important project, and on the other hand there is a comparison to the issue of the system. Of course, environmental issues are very important and the implementation of environmental policy is very important, but please note that the role of the Minister of Environment is also to implement European Union legislation. This is a very important element, and don't mock it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u363	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the law on packaging and packaging waste management and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1730, to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committees by 11 September 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor (Prints Nos 1731 and 1741). I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a brief report by the Infrastructure Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Technical Dosore Act, prints No. 1731 and 1741. The project concerns the implementation of Commission Directive 2004/99 of the European Union and aims to implement European Union law by entrusting control activities for service stations with regard to the efficiency of fuel vapour recovery installations to technical surveillance units and indicates inter alia. a specific European standard according to which fuel vapour recovery efficiency should be tested during refueling. The bill entered the Sejm on 11 July 2017. On 14 July 2017, the Act was addressed to the first reading in the committee. The law at first reading had only one editorial amendment and was adopted without a vote of objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u365	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. The amendment of the Law of 21 December 2000 on technical inspection is necessary in order to implement the European Union Directive, which introduced an obligation to test the efficiency of the fuel vapour recovery systems used in filling vehicles at service stations. During the 6th term of office of the Sejm, work was started on the parliamentary draft law on this matter in 2010, but the legislative work was not completed in connection with the end of the term of office of the Sejm. The way in which the technical equipment of the fuel vapour recovery plant under construction law has been supervised so far does not ensure that the obligations related to the control of their operation are properly fulfilled. It should be noted that these activities require expertise, the ability to operate equipment, as well as interpretations obtained during the performance checks. Therefore, the solution proposed by the government is appropriate, i.e. entrusting the technical supervision units with the activities related to the control of these installations. Technical inspectors shall have the necessary competence, technical knowledge and experience in this field. They are currently carrying out technical supervision over various technical devices installed at fuel stations. The transfer of these additional powers to technical oversight units of fuel vapour recovery equipment is a very effective solution. It is also very important that this new legal solution will certainly have a very positive impact on environmental protection, on the reduction of emissions of harmful vapours. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Józef Lassota to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor, original printing No. 1731. The amendment of this law is due to the need to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the recovery of fuel vapours at stage two when filling motor vehicles at service stations. These documents require monitoring at the fuel stations of the vapour capture equipment which is released when the vehicles are refueled and transferred to the storage tank. The bill provides for the introduction of system-based solutions for controlling emissions of pollutants associated with air leakage of atmospheric fuel vapours when refueling these vehicles at fuel stations. Given that the relevant technical surveillance units are already carrying out supervision of the technical equipment installed at the fuel stations, that they have resources and competence, and technical experience, it is proposed to entrust this function to the Technical Supervision Office at civil stations, while in the case of fuel located in railway areas, sidings, port areas, seaports and inland navigation is entrusted to the Transport Technical Supervision Authority and, in the case of the army, to the Military Technical Supervision. The proposed provisions require the operator to have a document confirming that the fuel vapour recovery device complies with the minimum requirements for the vapour recovery level. This is not a completely new obligation, as it is already the result of the provisions of the Energy Minister's Regulation on technical conditions to be met by the bases and stations of liquid fuels, long-distance pipelines for the transport of oil and petroleum products and their location. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the draft amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u369	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Sylwester Khrushch. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'm an intern. In my practice, the designer, the architect, designed a lot of gas stations. Fuel stations have actually been surrounded from the beginning with environmental restrictions that did not allow our country to litter the environment, destroy the environment. Therefore, the quality of sealing plates, oil separators, two-coat pipes, anchoring the tank, just suctioning the steam... We had to apply all this and I believe that in Poland it was at a high level. And today we are debating amending the law and implementing all the things that have come to us, the directives of the European Parliament and the Council, which order us to monitor well the fumes that appear during refueling. Of course, we as the Kukiz club15 will be in favour of amending this law. We believe that the Technical Supervision Authority has all the tools, has an experienced team, has the right equipment to take on the test of these fumes. We think it's going to be done well. Therefore, as I said at the beginning, we are in favour of this implementation, we are in favour of these solutions, because they will further improve the state of our environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. I don't see anybody at the Modern Club, so we're going to the next club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u372	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party, as well as my predecessors in statements representing individual clubs, is in favour of continuing, leading to the completion of the work aimed at finalising the project as a project that meets, or perhaps better, implementing our obligations as a country in relation to the provisions contained in the directives of the European Union. All these activities, which we read about here, are primarily about environmental protection, and about this topic. We're already talking at the next point today. It is a clear, clear, complex matter project, and it is undoubtedly necessary to entrust these specific tasks to technical oversight units as the ones that, for many years - as my colleague from the Kukiz club said - had, and have, the task of special supervision in order to ensure the operation of the service stations, while maintaining this particular regime in terms of investment and operation. We have certain indicators, we have a clear division of tasks between different groups, both in fuel stations and in rail transport, ports, units of the Ministry of Defence. We know what a specific European standard is, and we also know what is at stake for research. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u373	Thank you very much. Three persons, three Members, were included on the list of Members wishing to ask a question at this point in the meeting. Anyone else want to be on the list? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Question time is 1 minute. We begin with Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Bashka, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have withdrawn, probably for a moment, from the additional fuel charge, 25 gr, but the current bill imposes additional restrictions on the fuel distributors. Isn't it related - to raise funds? What's that got to do with it? The costs will always be passed on to the final recipient, i.e. the customer. To what extent will the question in connection with this law, the government bill, increase the cost of a litre of petrol after the change procedures have been introduced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u375	Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Most of the market - the overall majority - is already adapted to these solutions, we have distributors, which are world-class. But I have a question. Does the Ministry have an overview, a knowledge of what part of our market will not cope with the implementation of this directive and will have to bear the costs of exchanging distributors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u377	One last question, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u378	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why are you guys so late in this draft tech dormitory bill? Are we already going to suffer the consequences for this? Minister, do you have any knowledge of how many countries of the European Union have already introduced such solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u379	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, who are asking questions today! The first question concerned the costs of the monitoring of fuel vapour capture installations. How much is that gonna cost in a liter of gasoline? I think it'll be an unnoticeable cost. The second question concerned the number of stations that are already equipped with these installations today. Market recognition indicates that part of the station is already equipped with vapour capture installations. There was also a time for adjustment. These stations, which have even older distributors, which are not equipped with vapour capturers, will comply with this obligation later. On the other hand, with regard to the question which countries already have those rules in which they apply, we are unfortunately already behind the deadline for transposition of the Directive. That deadline was May 12th. Yo, so we're really catching up. In this connection, I would also like to thank you for your work during the committee's deliberations for not making any amendments. Thanks to this we will be able to get this important one more quickly, because the bill resulting from EU regulations will adopt and Poland will no longer be exposed in this case to the consequences of exceeding the deadline for transposition of European law into our legal system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u381	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases (prints 1732 and 1746). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases, prints 1732 and 1746. The Act is extraordinary in nature. The main objective of the amendment of the Law of 11 March 2004 is the need to clarify the legal provisions applicable to the control of infectious animal diseases and to identify the additional measures necessary for the effective control of those diseases. The need for amendments to the existing legislation is due to an analysis of the activities carried out so far and the current epizootic situation in the area of African swine fever, i.e. new outbreaks and cases in the eastern regions of Poland. The proposed amendments concern rules for the control of infectious animal diseases. The first concerns the imposition on hunters and tenants or managers of hunting circuits of an infectious disease among free-living animals of obligations similar to those of animal owners, including among others. providing information on a significant number of sudden falls, preventing bystanders from accessing animal carcasses and providing information, explanations and necessary assistance to veterinary inspection bodies. The introduction of these measures is intended to prevent the possible spread of the disease and is intended to allow for a faster location of the disease and the collection of relevant epizootic data. The second amendment allows the district veterinarian to order the holder of the holding, by administrative decision, to take action to enable hunters to carry out wild boars in a given area or to prohibit measures preventing or obstructing the execution of such a shot. This solution will help to improve the management of wild boar's sanitary fire, especially in areas where agricultural areas are located in close proximity to the forest. Another change is due to the need to order certain activities in the area of another county. Those provisions aim at effective and rapid decision-making and action by veterinary inspection bodies by impact on entities directly involved in the implementation of disease control measures, including the implementation of rapid and concrete measures to combat outbreaks of infectious diseases, taking the measures set out in the administrative decision, such as the organisation of the transport of dead and killed animals, their disposal and the slaughter of animals and possible processing of their meat in order to inactivate the infectious agent. The provisions concerning the disinfection mats by public road managers are further detailed. The conditions and the manner in which disinfection mats are maintained in the event of the issuing of the order shall be determined in the framework of the agreements of the principal veterinarian with the public road managers. Appropriate road safety in disease areas is one of the measures aimed at limiting the possibility for vehicles to pass the disease through the wheels outside those areas. The catalogue of activities that may be prescribed by regulations issued by the district veterinarian and voivode respectively shall be extended. This provision will allow for a sampling order, in particular by aquaculture operators and owners or managers of hunting circuits, to combat infectious animal diseases. This entails the need for staff to carry out their qualifications. entities. The catalogue of measures which may be available to the district veterinarian in the control and prevention of the infectious disease of animals subject to the control and prevention obligation is extended, namely the prohibition on the holding, rearing or rearing of animals of susceptible species. Experience has so far shown that small farms where a small number of animals are kept for their own use are unable to adapt to the existing bioinsurance requirements due to lack of financial resources or organisational capacity. The Act also introduces significant changes to improve animal health firing in areas covered by nature conservation or in shelters. The issue of such a firing shall be clarified where action is needed to identify further cases of contagious animal disease in free-live animals to shoot off sick or suspected animals of an infectious disease. Sanitary discharge will not be applied to protected animals. A district veterinarian may request that additional persons be designated for the execution of this order by the Polish Hunting Union for individual tenants or managers of hunting circuits. In case of non-execution by the tenants of hunting circuits of certain orders, including in particular the order for sanitary fire, the Polish Hunting Union or the district veterinarian may apply to the Regional Director of the State Forestry Farm of State Forests or the Old Forests for termination of the agreement to lease the Hunting District. This is intended to contribute to ensuring that the prescribed sanitary discharge is effectively carried out by the tenants in order to eradicate the infectious disease of animals. The following amendment adds a provision that the Polish Hunting Union, tenants or managers of hunting circuits should provide information on the number of game animals present in the area and the estimated change in the number of these animals during the period concerned at the request of veterinary inspection bodies. The collection of these data by district and voivodship veterinarians will enable the planning of the sanitary discharge of wild game vectors of infectious diseases to be combated ex officio in order to minimise the spread of the disease. The draft law states that persons who thwart or impede the execution of activities resulting from the orders of veterinary inspection bodies issued in connection with the eradication of infectious animal diseases shall be fined, punishable by restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to 3 years old. This will allow action to be carried out more effectively in the fight against infectious diseases by veterinary inspection bodies in the event of a lack of cooperation by animal owners or bystanders. The amount of fines has been determined where those prohibitions and orders are not enforced. Four amendments to the Act were proposed during the discussion of the draft law at the committee meeting. The Commission has examined the amendments tabled. Two of them were accepted. The entire bill was accepted without a vote of objection. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt it. It takes a moment at the front of the long-term struggle that we're fighting and we're going to have with African swine fever. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u383	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak on behalf of the law and justice club of Mr.John Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome. There's no envoy. [[There isn't. How about I go first, Marshal?]] Then we're going to the Civic Platform. Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the Act amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases, print No. 1732. Dear Member State, this is an amendment to the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious diseases concerning, as the rapporteur said, important provisions enabling faster enforcement, the issuing of prescriptive decisions and decisions which were not clearly set out in the previous law and which actually help to carry out veterinary inspections, which are mainly responsible for combating these communicable diseases. The Act applies not only to ASF, but also to other infectious diseases, among others. the most recent outbreak of avian influenza. Indeed, there has been a great deal of legal failure in the fight against this disease. It can be done right now. Given that this is an imposition on hunters, tenants or managers of hunting circuits of certain obligations, orders, this is a change in a very good direction. This change makes it possible for those who are responsible for fighting to make decisions in the case of those who are largely involved in combating these viruses. One thing I miss about this law, in this amendment, as I already mentioned in the committee's meeting, with such strict imposition of orders, prohibitions, among others. the prohibition of farming for farmers. There's a ban on pig farming. You can spend for a certain period, which is, of course, linked to a very short or limited period, but it is a command either to kill or to ban breeding. There are many other warrants, and all I lack in this catalogue is such a guarantee, a shield that could be done, especially in the article. 48 on compensation. And what we've encountered over the two years of fighting the disease, that's quite an increase in the case of the disease. Let us remember that in 2015 there were three outbreaks and in 2017 there were 53 outbreaks of African swine fever, so it is a rapid, absolutely rapid development of this disease. All I miss is the farmer's side. So what farmers pointed out: a long way of decision-making, a long procedural way to make decisions so that farmers can get compensation, compensation. It's not here. We talked about this with the Minister at the committee meeting, and that is where the fact is that there is indeed an EU record that it is 90 days, but it seems to me very sensible and possible to do so - maybe an amendment, maybe an additional amendment, but I think that the amendment - should, however, be in the article. 49, in which compensation is described, especially in the paragraph. 8, in the precise issue of the decision on compensation, include a period, i.e. that the institutions which issue these acts and issue the decisions on compensation should have a certain period of time which they must hold on to, let's say, 2 weeks to make that decision. Then the entire compensation procedure would be quicker. The biggest problem is that farmers bear enormous costs during the course of the infectious disease and these 90 days recorded in the European Union's laws as a maximum period of time is too much, especially. in the case of avian influenza, when it is possible to fill the henhouse twice at that time, so the losses are huge, and the decision-making, waiting for the decision is long. So it seems to me, Minister, that it would be necessary to consider possible legislative amendments which would, however, force officials, inspection to make decisions more quickly, which would result in quicker compensation. That's all I'm missing from this bill. I understand that this is a bill that will help us, and the Civic Platform Club will vote for this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u385	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u386	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft amendment to the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. To begin with, I would like to remind you that recently, because in September ub. r., as a matter of urgency, we were dealing with the amendment of the same law. The purpose of the bill was identical to that of the present one. The proposal follows itself: the September amendment failed to meet the intended objective and the Ministry of Agriculture still does not have mechanisms to effectively prevent the spread of infectious diseases. The threat that should have been eliminated long ago, in my opinion, will not be eliminated as farmers are still not being listened to, the voice of the Kukiz club15 is not being listened to. [[Applause]] The Ministry in the project is imposing further penalties on farmers. It is on them that the main burden is shifted, responsibility for the spread of the disease is shifted. Meanwhile, the only penalty for hunters is the termination of the lease agreement. Punishment, although it seems restrictive, will not be applied to hunters in my view either, as evidenced by the unfavorable position of the Minister of the Environment expressed during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. Turns out there's one government, one party, and there's two sentences in the key issue. Many restrictions and obligations are imposed on farmers, for which severe fines are foreseen and hunters continue to be treated very leniently. The ASF has been dealing with us since February 2014, i.e. for almost 3.5 years the rulers have failed to deal with a disease that has a destructive impact on the functioning of agricultural holdings. Farmers complain about the state's inability to fight the disease, the problems with compensation, the buying-in of pigs and, above all, the firing of wild boars, which are the main vector transferring the ASF. However, the obvious solution, e.g. setting the fence at the border with Belarus, which I mentioned a few months ago, was ignored and even mocked by officials of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is good that the Minister of Agriculture recently wanted to take advantage of this solution. Minister Szyszko, in turn, as the minister supervising the Polish Łowiecki Union, clearly protects the interests of hunters. There is a clear conflict between the Ministry of the Environment, which does not understand the scale of the problem, and the Ministry of Agriculture, which cannot effectively protect the rights of one of the strategic sectors of Polish agriculture. It cannot be that antagonism within the government negatively affects citizens and the cost-effectiveness of their hard work. In November Ub. The Ministry of Environment introduced a draft Law on Hunting Law. No subcommittee meeting has taken place in more than six months. There is no desire to regulate the problem and to bring about normality expected by farmers. I have proposed 30 amendments to the government project, which take into account farmers' expectations regarding the principles of rational conduct of the hunting economy, amendments which would solve the ASF problem. It is a pity that the ministries do not want to benefit from the good practices reported by Members. Such behaviour causes considerable costs for farmers and the Polish economy. In conclusion, Kukiz15 supports the project, realizing that it is still a partial solution, which will require at least two amendments, which I am submitting to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder made a statement in writing. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u388	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is another bill designed to allow the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, under the service, to fight African swine fever more effectively than ever before. More effective, because what has been done so far has not produced satisfactory results. After all, the spread of the disease continues to take place, and the scale of this is increasing. It is also amazing that last year, when we adopted two specialties, we heard such voices from the Minister and from the Minister, and that this may be enough action to stop this disease. Time has shown that actions are not sufficient, and this criticism, which concerned previous ministers of agriculture, was unjustified, because, as you can see, the disease is stronger than political rivalry and it rather wins. As for this project, we will of course support it, because any solution that goes towards combating African swine fever and helping Polish farmers, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports, although we have a few comments to this project. We believe that he will join a group of two laws from last year, which have not proven to be quite effective. It will be the same with this law, because the records that we impose on the owner of the land, the agricultural land, the farmer, for example, are very general. There are no rules or activities that we forbid a farmer from doing hunting, but we also do not have a catalogue of activities that are ordered by a farmer to carry out so that the fight against vectors as wild as they are is more effective. For this reason, I think it will be very easy for those who will have to do this shooting, and for those who are landowners, to get past this provision. We have very similar reservations about the provision imposing hunting obligations on the wheels for firing, because basically the only formula that is, is the termination of the lease agreement with the hunting wheel. The question is whether even if this is applied to this hunting circle, that is, this circle will be taken away from the hunting circle, the agreement will be made, there will be another hunting wheel that will want to carry out this obligation. I didn't see the hunting wheels lining up to fight African swine fever by shooting wild boars off. To sum up, despite the negative comments that we have to this project, we believe that this is a project that in some sense can help solve this situation, so the club of the Polish People's Party will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Mr Ardanowski has appeared, I ask you to speak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u390	Marshal, thank you so much for letting me speak. I would like to present the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases, print No. 1732. This law is needed because so far activities related to the Egyptian plague of the 21st century, which is African swine fever occurring in many European countries, unfortunately since March 2014 also in Poland... This situation requires additional action. I share the view that these actions may not yet be sufficient and additional, extraordinary measures will have to be taken in a short time. But in order to measure our expectations, we propose... the government proposes this bill. I do not want to assess the ineffectiveness of the actions of our predecessors, but if wild boars were depopulationd when the outbreaks occurred in a very small area near the Belarusian border, probably the problem of the spread of the disease would not have occurred, the disease would have been effectively controlled. Unfortunately, this was not done, which is why there were new fires. At the same time, there is an explanation for the veterinary science of the role of wild boars as vectors for the transmission of disease. At the beginning, when this phenomenon occurred in Poland, this opinion was not entirely unambiguous, also at the Puławy Institute. Many outstanding professionals, professors, questioned the role of wild boars as vectors. I don't think they have any doubts right now. Therefore, reducing the number of wild boars, depopulation in areas where they can carry the disease, seems completely obvious. In order to reduce and, as a consequence, to eradicate African swine fever in Poland, a disease which complicates the breeding of pigs in Poland very much requires cooperation of farmers, veterinary inspection, hunters associated with the Polish Hunting Union, as well as appropriate budgetary measures that are secured for this purpose. This law introduces responsibility, first, for the Veterinary Inspection, which will finally have tools to combat the disease effectively; it introduces liability for road managers to teach and maintain disinfectant maps in a state of efficiency, because so far this responsibility has not been clearly defined; it also introduces and extends the responsibility of farmers with regard to the obligation to bioinsurance. I know that the vast majority of pig farmers understand the danger of moving the disease to their flocks. This is not only for them a tragedy of life, but also for all those who grow pigs in this area. Therefore, bioinsurance problems must not be underestimated, it must be extended, and the Veterinary Inspection will also have appropriate pressure options. The essential issue that this law regulates is, it seems, an effective tool for the impact on hunting wheels, managers or owners of hunting circuits, so that they effectively carry out, at the direction of the Veterinary Inspection, an appropriate shooting of wild boars. In fact, only hunters are prepared for this, only they have the equipment, the capabilities and know how to make this shot. So far we have all pointed out that this shooting in many regions of Poland, where it was ordered, proved ineffective and actually hunting circles did not have any consequences, and it seems that cooperation with the state authorities in this area should be obvious. That's why we're punishing you. Financial penalties may not be fully effective. Finally, there was a record that allows us to activate what, in the case of hunters, would probably be the most effective way to encourage them to shoot off, namely the possibility of forbidding the hunting circuit. It seems that this element should effectively address the imagination in the context of the obligations that hunting wheels should assume. I hope, and so hopefully on behalf of our club, that these actions that the government is proposing will be sufficient, because they significantly increase the capacity of the Veterinary Inspection and the capacity to influence the entities on which the limitation and liquidation of the ASF depends. If not, we'll be looking for further additional measures. However, these seem to be adequate for the time being. That is why we will, of course, strongly support this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Seven Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel. There isn't. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko. You're welcome, sir. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the beginning I will say that as a self-government officer, a deputy marshal of the voivodship and a marshal of the voivodship, I took up a fight with ASF, adopted funds in the budget. Interestingly, with regard to the Polish Hunting Union, I signed an agreement with hunting circles, and they did not use these funds. It was a dilemma for me. Maybe this bill will speed things up, because as local government officials, we tried to spend money, and yet it was impossible for hunting circles. I have a question. The project deals theoretically with increasing the effectiveness of the fight against infectious animal diseases by introducing new obligations. Who are you gonna impose an obligation on to fight the ASF if the ministry and agencies can't handle it? It must also be stressed. It was predicted that the problem would disappear in no time, but regularly the chief health inspector reported further outbreaks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the presence of a virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u393	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill under investigation today is, we can say, a special act that is supposed to give the right tools so that it can effectively fight infectious diseases. I think that in the case of such a law we should use all the tools that are available. Even with a certain supply, we should give it to the Minister in order to prevent the spread of this disease. In my opinion, we are doing this too slowly, walkingly, because when we look at the history of this law, it turns out that something that was impossible to do is already possible at the moment. I have two simple questions. How many tenants or managers of hunting circles have so far been punished in accordance with the rules already in force? If we know it's bad, they should be punished. Are they being punished? The second question is about this fence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the eastern border. Minister Jurgiel and the committee, and in the media, he said this fence would be set up. When will it be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u395	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u396	Next month? Two, three? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u397	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u398	Three questions for the Minister. First: What is the condition for today in terms of the development of the disease, which is exactly how many outbreaks were found in the case of pigs, breeding flocks and how many wild boars? That's the first question. The point is that we know exactly what we're doing. Secondly: What did you mean by the Minister and State that the holding holder was ordered to take certain measures - what are these specific actions - which enable the animals to be shot away from the health? Which actions are those which prevent or hinder the execution of this firing? Or, for example, Is it difficult or easier for a farmer to grow, plow his land or mow corn during the hunt? If he stays in his own territory, on his own ground, is that an easy or difficult thing to do? Question three, related to hunting wheels, precise question. How many hunting circles have failed to implement the plan for the eradication of wild boars, and what were the consequences? I'm more interested in answering the question about how many hunting wheels it didn't realize. [[♪ The bell ♪]] an obligation imposed on them to carry out a sanitary discharge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The subject is very important, the bill goes in the right direction, takes one step forward, gives more instruments, tools to doctors, but it is still so important to say that punishments are never a good solution. It causes it to focus all of this on farmers in general, and it is not so, after all there are buyers, they are responsible, carriers are responsible. It seems to me that the most important calming element, especially in our fragmented agriculture, is money. Take the example of Spain: the veterinarian has the possibility that at the moment when he decides to liquidate or euthanasia, he immediately writes a check according to official tables. That's the use of this element. This gives confidence, it gives certainty and safety when production is banned. I'm not talking about the situation we have right now that there isn't any. [[♪ The bell ♪]] no prevention, even in those areas that are affected - not to mention other areas. You will gain a much better trust if a model of Spanish trust comes in. You don't have any money, you owe half a year...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u401	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u402	...and there's no other solution. A golden idea without money isn't worth anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, question. I have here a print, a report on the government's representative's activities in the field of African fever -- this is a group that was created to determine what happened. I will not agree with Mr Ardanowski, because the gunshot is not entirely sure, the vectors are certain. I'll just read what the recommendations are, there are seven recommendations, a special team that came up to fight the ASF, seven main recommendations. Wildfire's in third place. Of course, make a deal between the ministries. It cannot be that the Minister of the Environment is blocking absolutely the actions of the Minister of Agriculture. Minister for the Environment [[Applause]] and absolutely blocks the actions of the Minister of Agriculture. Minister Jurgel, get Minister Szyszko in the stocks, because I don't know what it's gonna be like. The first is the elimination of pig production. And that is the reason, ladies and gentlemen - the lack of money, compensation to eliminate small farms, not to eliminate, to eliminate pig farming. It's about giving money to people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They grew something else. It's in the first place. Close supervision, strong density reduction, active search for wild boars for disposal, etc. There are seven main recommendations. And that's the reason - it's about money and farmers who give up a small number of pigs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u405	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The African disease virus appeared in Eastern Europe in 2007, in Georgia during the Russian-Georgia war, reached many countries in our part of the continent. I have a question for the Minister. Probably even though these actions we are going to take are, it seems, at this stage adequate, although there is no certainty, the problem may be long-term. In many countries where the African plague has occurred, despite the actions that have been taken by governments, it has not been eliminated, it is simply necessary to learn to live with it. Therefore, I have a question: do we know what is the epizootic state in our eastern neighbours, in Belarus and Ukraine? And whether our trading partners, who import pork and use African swine fever to stop this import, take into account the so-called. zoning, that is, that the restrictions are only from the area where African fever occurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but not from other regions? I say this in the context of Wielkopolska and Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u407	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since I will no longer talk about the bill, but answer questions, I will start with Mr Sachajka, who asks what penalties have been imposed, whether any penalties have been applied, apart from those relating to the termination of contracts with the wheels, whether they have been applied to the hunting circles at all. There was no need to do so, because, however, this one ordered by the Minister of Agriculture was implemented and unfortunately there is no basis. It's just being implemented. There were certain amounts of wild boars to be shot off and 94% of them. has been completed. He's still going on, so there was no basis for that. Mr Baszko asks: Who do you want to lay responsibility on or fight the ASF? We don't want to throw it at anybody. He fights the ASF Veterinary Inspection, but the Veterinary Inspection cannot be left to itself. There are measures and warrants, prohibitions that need to be enforced, and it's not like we're gonna do something as an inspection, it's just our common interest. Mr Sachajko says that we are too slow to act, and he asks about these tenants, once again he reiterates the question of whether the former tenants were punished. Not yet, because it's a new instrument. You also ask Mr Sachajko about the fence. With regard to the recommendation to put up such a fence - I do not know whether to call it a fence, it is such a barrier to protect against the penetration of wild boars - this recommendation was made at the meeting of the permanent economic committee. Today was the meeting of the Government Security Center. There will also be a speech on this subject, and it is difficult for me to say what it will be. First of all, you need money... [[If the Germans have fear, then, Minister, they're not joking.]] I'm not surprised they have fear... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In any case, such recommendations have been issued and I think we will go in this direction. Mr Maliszewski asks what is the epizootic situation in terms of the number of outbreaks. At the moment we have 54 fires, already new cases in wild boars appear in the vicinity of Włodawa, further south in the Lublin Voivodeship. But when it comes to wild boar cases, there are 54 fires, and we've been over 400 in wild boars. [[480.]] ... 418, I don't remember exactly, because it changes by a few or a dozen during the day. It's hard for me to say. Mr Maliszewski also asks what we mean by obstruction. The difficulty of the farmer may be, for example, just carrying out field work when there's a sanitary discharge, or for example. If he's got a large area of corn and it would be good to make a comma, that's what we're counting on. Of course, if such a comma is ordered by a decision of a district veterinarian, the inspection costs will be incurred. So that's what we're talking about - to make it easier, not more difficult, for example. do not carry out field work at a time when it is carried out shooting. It's small things, but it's very easy to drive a shot. You're also asking what we mean by ordering some appropriate action. For example, as noted on the farm, it is the responsibility of the farmer to first and foremost isolate his animals, not to let anyone in, not to export anything, such a basic ABC, first of all not to allow anyone, nor animals, nor humans, to enter these fallen animals, to be allowed to be sampled, such basic things. This also applies to hunters, because that's what the new duty is in the bill. Since farmers are subject to such obligations, hunters will be required - if they find a dead boar in the field, they have a duty, first, to report it, second, to make sure that there is no access to it. Such, it would seem, simple things, but nevertheless very important. Mr Aichler asks how many wheels... [[How many hunting circles didn't make the plans?]] ...how many hunting circles have failed to complete their plans. Well, actually, I already did. The gunshot was made in 94%, so there's no reason or reason to punish the wheels or have any grudges. On the other hand, we are going in such a way that the Minister of the Environment would count differently the sanitary discharge that is being carried out, in short, that the sanitary discharge would not be counted as a loss, but that it would be a complement, so that we would go towards normal scheduled hunting... [[Achievements.]] Yes. ...and a clean-up fire would just be a supplement. [[Voice from the Room: Planning hunts.]] Yeah, yeah. Mr. Ajchler proposes that we pay with checks. Well, every country has different options, different methods. [[It's about time.]] Yeah, time. [[It's about time. It's about farmers' trust.]] I understand, but so far in our law it's so written that there has to be a team, experts have to value it. [[That doesn't guarantee trust at all.]] But it's been like this for years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u409	But you're welcome... Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: That's the way it is, and we're not gonna change that for now. I can only declare that there will be a team. The proper draft order of the Minister has already been signed today, a team is set up. development of new rules on compensation, estimation, etc. We'll work on it. I don't know if we're gonna think about waiting, probably not, but we're gonna be moving towards acceleration. On the other hand, as far as acceleration is concerned, this is where the Member says it takes a long time. Unfortunately, first there must be those decisions that block the holdings, the suspicion, then the determination, and the estimation is second. Of course, it's going on and we're aware of it... [[It needs to be shortened.]] ...and delays are also due to the activation of the special reserve. [[Spaniards, farmers, calmed down these decisions when it comes to quick payouts.]] Please, sir... Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Mr Ardanowski asks what is the epizootic state of Ukraine and Belarus. So Belarus does not admit that there is an ASF in this country at all. It's impossible, because wild boars just cross the border, and they go both ways. Hence, we do not believe in these declarations, and no one believes in them, nor does the European Commission believe in them, while the ASF is spreading in Ukraine. Ukrainians, however, do not have the strength and means to combat ASF. I suppose they don't have any money to pay compensation either. Therefore, the threat on the part of Ukraine and Belarus is large, which is the main reason why we are thinking about the construction of the fence. So far there has been no such threat, but it is clear that these actions are absolutely ineffective - I do not want to say that they have been abandoned - and there is a threat. Mr Ardanowski asked about the principles of regionalisation. I would like to say that farmers often say - even today there has been a meeting with farmers from the Mosice district - that we are too strict to rely on EU rules, because the fight against diseases is also regulated by EU rules, that we could be more flexible. It is precisely that we cannot be more flexible, because if we use the fight against infectious diseases in accordance with EU rules, third countries, and in general all EU countries, are obliged to use regionalisation. We must therefore be credible, apply the principles of combating as set out in EU law. And then we can sell meat to all EU countries, what we do, and there are third countries that take into account regionalisation, e.g. United States. At the moment there is an opportunity and we may be able to communicate with Japan somehow, because there is a declaration to apply regionalization excluding these three voivodships. So this is some kind of tunnel light. So as far as regionalisation is concerned, we need to apply the rules generally accepted in the Union, whether they like it or not, but this way pigs from other regions can be sold. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u410	I'll start with what's worth supporting in this project. It is good that it is imposed on hunters and on tenants or management of hunting circuits, among others. providing information on a significant number of sudden falls, preventing bystanders from accessing animal carcasses and providing information, explanations and necessary assistance to veterinary inspection bodies. There is also a provision concerning the teaching of disinfectant mats by public road managers. It's just a pity that you don't know where the managers are gonna get the money from, and that there's no precise guidance on how to teach mats. A proposal for a sampling order is needed for aquaculture operators and owners or managers of hunting circuits to combat infectious animal diseases if it is specified how to do so in an appropriate manner. Unfortunately, errors and late action by the Ministry of Agriculture are the cause of today's epidemic spread, we already have 50 cases of ASF outbreaks among livestock. Insufficient financial aid from the State to farmers has caused many smaller farms not to be able to apply the bio-insurance necessary to protect the stock. The very low amount of compensation for the cessation of production has caused few farmers to decide to eliminate the production of pig live on small farms and this is necessary to effectively combat the spread of ASF. The draft shall extend the catalogue of measures that may be available to the district veterinarian in the prevention and control of contagious diseases of animals subject to the control obligation, adding a prohibition on the holding, rearing or rearing of animals of susceptible species. The District Veterinary Officer will have the possibility to introduce such a prohibition within the county or part thereof in the event of an infectious animal disease or a direct threat to its occurrence. This should be followed by compensation for farmers who run such farms. What's the Minister's idea of compensation for these farmers? What is a farmer who keeps, hides or raises animals of susceptible species to do when such a ban appears? Moreover, if such a farmer fails to comply with the prohibition, in accordance with point 5 added to the Article. 78 of the Act will be fined, punishable by restrictions on liberty or imprisonment until the age of 3. The excessive population growth of feral pigs is an important problem with reducing the spread of ASF, but we should not forget that the reduction of the population, even drastic, will not prevent the spread of the disease. Wild boars are characterized by high adaptation capacity and quickly complement their size to the level resulting from habitat capacity by increasing effective reproduction and influx of individuals from neighbouring areas. This project allows animals to be shot off in areas covered by nature protection (in the case of a national park it will be necessary to establish the conditions for firing with the national park director, with regard to the nature reserve area, with the regional environmental director). In our opinion, this is not the right way. In addition, we read in the explanatory memorandum: "Another amendment concerns the addition of a new article. 47b 1 point 7 of the project), which contains the provisions according to which the district veterinarian, in the case where the animal's sanitary discharge is ordered, may ask the Polish Hunting Union (PZŁ) to designate additional persons for the execution of this order for individual tenants or managers of hunting circuits. This will improve the implementation of the sanitary firing, by increasing the number of people who will be able to carry out such firing without being a member of the hunting circle concerned. These individuals will have to have the power to hunt, but there are no more specific rules for allowing such persons to be shot away from health. In order to control the epidemic, the consistent use of bio-insurance on pig-living holdings will help. We therefore expect the Minister of Agriculture to take decisive action to help farmers introduce effective and universal bio-insurance. We believe that, like farmers, action so far is ineffective and far from sufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. The amendment of the Act clarifies the legislation on the control of infectious animal diseases and indicates the measures necessary for the effective control of infectious animal diseases. Following the emergence of new outbreaks and cases of African swine fever in Eastern Poland, it is necessary to amend the law. The changes introduced by the Act are among others. impose on hunters and tenants or managers of hunting circuits the suspicion of an infectious disease among free-living animals, inter alia. the obligation to provide information on a significant number of suddenly dead animals and to provide information and the necessary assistance to veterinary inspection bodies. I think it is appropriate to clarify the provisions relating to disinfectant mats. I am convinced that adequate hydration of the mat can prevent the spread of infectious diseases to other areas. Projectors propose to extend the catalogue of measures that may be available to the district veterinarian in the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases, inter alia. prohibit the maintenance, rearing or rearing of susceptible animals. In addition, the draft amendment provides for substantial changes to be made in order to improve animal health fire. During the first reading of the bill, work in committee was very substantive, but some issues raised my doubts. My reservations are that we should ban livestock farming or farming. There was no information on how compensation would be granted for the time the farmer was banned. I am convinced that the proposed changes will affect the more effective fight against infectious animal diseases. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u412	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Sport and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents (prints Nos 1734 and 1763). I ask Mr Jarosław Nobletka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! As rapporteur, I would like to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Sport and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and on the content of these documents, print No 1734. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 17 July 2017 the Senate resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for consideration. I would like to remind the High House that the bill concerns the increased transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and the prevention of conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions on members of the management board of the Polish sports union, the introduction of a ban on the role of a member of the management board of the Polish sports union by former officers of the security authorities of the State of the Polish Republic, the improvement of the transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions, the extension of the definition of sport to intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve a sporting result, and the introduction of the possibility of awarding a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 July 2017, requests the High Sejm's amendments to the Senate contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u414	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u415	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, print No 1734. At its meeting on 15 July 2017, the Senate considered the abovementioned. The bill and adopted 10 amendments to it. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism at its meeting of 19 July this year. considered the amendments tabled by the Senate. Of the 10 amendments, the committee recommended that everyone be accepted. Amendments 1 and 2 are the most important ones. Amendment 1 clarifies, among others: the provision, indicating that it constitutes the performance of work both within the framework of the employment relationship and on the basis of a civil law contract. This amendment also correlates the added point 4 with the revised article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, in which part of the joint legislature explicitly referred to contracts and not to cessation of work. In point 6 added to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Sports Act provides that a member of the management board of the Polish sports association will not be able to be a member of the body of the entity providing services, supplies or works to the Polish sports association. At the same time, in accordance with the inserted article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point (8) (a) c a member of the management board of the Polish sports association cannot be a person whose closest person is a member of the body, a proxy or a proxy in a entity providing services, supplies or works to the Polish sports association. By introducing Amendment 1, the Senate clarified the provision limiting the possibility of being a member of the management board of the Polish sports association to a person who is a proxy or agent in a entity providing services, supplies or works to the Polish sports association. The Senate, when adopting Amendment 2, accepted that the legislator's intention was to exclude such persons from being a board member. Amendments 1 and 2 received a positive recommendation from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. My club fully supports all the amendments and I ask on behalf of the club to accept all these amendments. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, I will say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this law and thanks the Minister for working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u416	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. Ladies and gentlemen! Big changes await Polish sport. After 7 years of operation of the Sports Act, it was decided to identify a number of areas that need to be amended. In the new law, among others. the definition of sport has changed, restrictions have been introduced for members of the boards of Polish sports unions or the rules for awarding scholarships have been changed. The most important change concerning the management boards of the PZS is the prohibition of sitting on the boards of the PZS of persons who were members of the apparatus of repression of the Polish People's Republic, are trainers of national staff, work in the Ministry, act as a member of the body of the entity providing services, supplies or works to the PZS, or act as a member of the body, proxy or representative in entities providing economic activities connected with the implementation of its statutory activities by this association. The main objective of the proposed changes is to increase the transparency of the functioning of Polish sports unions, which, according to the applicants, leaves many reservations. The Act increases the Minister's supervision by wider access to union documents, regulations or instructions, although it must be borne in mind that PZSs are self-governing and independent and their authorities are accountable to their members. The Senate has introduced 10 amendments to the bill. One amendment clarifies the provision, indicating that a member of the Polish sports association cannot be employed in the Ministry both within the framework of the employment relationship and under the civil law agreement. Other amendments include: restrictions on the performance of the function of a member of the Management Board of the PZS, standardise the terminology of the rules, introduce transitional provisions of the Sports Act concerning the provision of money and propose stricter conditions for the acquisition of entitlement to the provision of money from the State budget. It's about the popular Olympic benefit that medalists get who meet the right conditions. According to the Senate, the benefit should not only be due to a person convicted of doping for more than 24 months, but also to a person who has been convicted of doping more than once, regardless of the length of the penalty. The Civic Platform Club will support the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u418	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz... Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. I am so sorry, sir. I haven't seen you on this side.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today on the committee we worked on the Senate resolution. There are 10 amendments in it. The Kukiz Club15 raises no objections to these amendments. Of course, we will vote in favour. Thank you for the substantive and non-conflict work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u420	Thank you very much, sir. And here you go, Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Club will approve these amendments proposed by the Senate. Of course, we have some doubts about this law to the end, because this law can in a sense harm many prominent athletes who, after their career,... Unfortunately, during their sports life they have not been able to gain any other profession, they have devoted their entire lives to sport and the natural thing is that after the end of their sports career they continued their adventure with sport or as activists or as trainers or as people associated in some other way with the discipline they practiced. It wasn't their fault that they were military or Guardian players, it was just what sports looked like back then. These very often - unfortunately from a time point of view - were employed either in the police or in the military, and this has actually led them to be subject to this law. It was wrong that in this way we could harm many people who have brought pride to Polish sport, but nevertheless these amendments which were proposed - perhaps not on these most important issues - will improve this law. We will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present a position on the Act amending the Act on Sports and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The Act enhances the transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and the possibility of preventing conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions on the ability of former officers of the PRL security authorities to act as a member of the Board of Directors of the Polish sports union. The possibility of awarding a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases and provisions on combating doping in sport have been introduced. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate after considering the law - ww. The bill was proceded in the Senate - he passed 10 amendments to this law. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party after examining the amendments tabled by the Senate does not comment. We recommend to the High House that they be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. One Member, Marek Matuszewski, joined the question. You're welcome. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have a quick question. Does the Ministry have any respect for how many activists from the boards of Polish sports unions may lose the possibility of being a member of the board of the union? There is much talk here - some Members are very afraid of it - that it will be a very large group. How does the Ministry estimate this? Will it be such a delicate group of former officers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry have any insight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u426	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jarosław Stawiarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Matuszewski's question, I would like to be honest with you that these conditions which disqualify board members are so difficult to say at the moment how many informers there were, how many employees of the SB, the PRL services, and how many members of the board members have relatives at the moment - or whether they are sitting there - in companies that provide services to these unions. Life will verify everything. I hope that after the entry into force of this law there will be no such persons, because this law serves among others. to be transparent, to be transparent and to be as we would like - that members of the boards of Polish sports unions should be people without blemish, people who are leading large groups of society and having a very broad impact on public opinion, on social life in the country, really want to bring something that can be taken as a model and who are not in any way conflict with the law that we are introducing at the moment. So that's it. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Sports and Tourism once again for their effective work and for this consensus that we have worked out during this work. I hope that this law will serve the good of Polish sport and Polish society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u428	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws (Prints No. 1735 and 1744). I would very much like to ask Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u429	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present to the High House a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws. On 18 July 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs examined six amendments of the Senate - legislative and editorial amendments - and asked the High House to adopt them in accordance with print No 1744. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u430	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u431	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position to the High House on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, in print No. 1744, on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and on certain other laws concerning inter alia. defining new rules for the admission of foreigners for the purpose of seasonal and short-term work in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Senate's amendments and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u432	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws. The resolution adopted by the Senate on 15 July 2017 contains six amendments of a precise, interpretative and editorial nature. The Platform supports these amendments and will vote in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u434	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the amendment of the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act and some other laws. The aim of the Act is to implement the so-called. Directive on seasonal workers. In its assumptions, among others. simplify procedures for the issue of work permits. However, the proposed changes in applying for a seasonal work permit for foreigners are not only much more complicated, but, moreover, do not take into account the particularities of agricultural production. Therefore, during the examination of the law by the Sejm on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I made seven amendments which met the expectations of farmers, gardeners and fruitists. Unfortunately, only one has been taken into account. The majority of the Sejm disagreed with the introduction of very important amendments, which may constitute further or not be the Polish fruit and vegetables sector. I regret to say that the Senate, which should be the House of reflection, did not carry out a thorough analysis of the effects of the proposed regulations and did not want to take over the proposed amendments. The new law provides for the issue of a seasonal work permit if the amount of remuneration specified in the contract with the foreigner is not lower than the remuneration of workers carrying out comparable work within the same period of time. Today the minimum rate is 13 PLN gross. The rate set at this level may lead to the abandonment of the collection of less cost-effective fruit and vegetable species and thus to a drastic deterioration in the financial condition of farms and the loss of the internal market and export markets. My proposal to exclude the application of this provision to seasonal work in agriculture has been rejected. Similarly, an amendment concerning the requirement to attach information to the application for authorisation concerning the foreseeable paid leave granted to the foreigner has happened. Members and senators do not realise that seasonal work in agriculture or gardening is short-term and unpredictable. Only the course of weather changes determines the breaks in work and during this period the seasonal worker is resting, and setting additional days off during a few weeks' period of employment for intensive work on the harvest will expose farmers to additional costs. I would like to make it clear that the adoption of the law as it stands will significantly reduce the competitiveness of Polish farms. This law is another attempt to improve the profitability of agricultural production of the old Union countries by increasing labour costs in the new Union countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. also in Poland. I appeal to your Members for a moment of reflection and reflection on the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Rosa made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I maintain our position on this bill, a negative position. This law in many places worsens the current conditions of employment of foreigners, especially in agricultural holdings. After all, this law generally applies to owners of agricultural holdings wishing to employ foreigners to work on these farms. It introduces additional responsibilities, introduces additional tightenings, but also introduces fees that are not available today. Granted, only 30 PLN, but this is, given the scale, on rotation, on the number of employees, a heavy burden on farms. The amendments proposed by the Senate absolutely do not reflect this discussion, which was during the work in the Sejm, nor do they reflect the amendments that we tabled, which in the vast majority were not accepted, but also the amendments of the Senate do not in any way reflect the positions of Polish farmers, gardeners, gardeners and their needs as regards the employment of foreigners and their willingness to have more facilitated, simplified employment procedures and not hindered, as is the case in this law. So we're thinking that the Senate has failed in this respect, and the minor amendments it has tabled concern the clarification of certain and so negative entries in this law. Indeed, these amendments do not bring anything, so the club of the Polish People's Party will still wonder whether these amendments support in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u438	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has prepared a written statement. The question was raised by one Member, Mr Sachaiko. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. It is time for the question to be asked by the Member - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I have said, in my opinion, in the assessment of our club - but not only, because several economists are talking about it - at the moment many European Union directives are directives written under the dictation of large, old European Union countries, who want to improve their agricultural condition at the expense of the new European Union countries, those neighbouring countries which, thanks to the fact that they can, so to speak, benefit from foreign workers, can improve their profitability of production. Now I would like to ask the Minister how he estimated the cost of implementing this law for Polish agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not think it is necessary to explain to the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture that this law concerns the seasonal directive that we need to implement. We are already one year behind in implementing this directive, among others. Because we're looking for a good solution for farmers. And you know perfectly well that we have shown maximum goodwill in order to find the best possible solutions. And that bill makes it up. I can assure you that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which is responsible for implementing this directive, will still lead to solutions that will facilitate the employment of workers in agriculture. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u442	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws, prints no. 1735 and 1744. The Act to which amendments to the Senate have been tabled amends a number of provisions contained in the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of insolvency of the employer under which benefits are paid from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, and amends the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, introduces the exemption of the Fund from court fees, which is a very valid principle. The Modern Posel Club supports the bill and the amendments tabled to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws. As I said at first reading, the amendments to the Act are related to the need to implement Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. I have not changed my mind and will repeat: I have no doubt that the solutions currently in place in Poland do not provide workers and employers with adequate protection against abuse. The implementation of the directive in Polish legislation will result in a significant extension of the provisions of the law on the possibility of allowing foreigners to work on the Polish labour market. It is very good that the proposed amendment provides for a change in the registration system for job applications. This is where many abuses occur most often. In addition, the Directive introduces seasonal work permits. Importantly, all third-country nationals will be able to apply for this type of work. This is a significant extension of the current employment opportunities of foreigners on our market. Many provisions aim primarily at ordering the functioning of third-country workers in our legal system. Among the proposed provisions are a number of those which will serve to ensure the safety and decent working conditions of the incoming foreigners. These are records concerning e.g. the amount of the minimum wage or the need to guarantee an appropriate form of employment, similar to that adopted for domestic workers, social security. In my view, such provisions of the Act will have a positive impact on the reduction of discrimination against workers coming to us from other countries. However, what is extremely important, in the novel there are also a number of provisions that reduce such practices as making false statements or falsifying or buying statements. The procedure at the county labour offices, as well as at consulates, has so far been prolonged because of these situations. In practice, this has led to the fact that employers actually in need of an employee could not get it quickly. It is necessary to regulate the rules for the employment of foreigners in Poland more detailed than before. The legal influx of immigrants into Poland is also important because the resources of workers in our country are decreasing from year to year. The legal influx of immigrants is important for the smooth functioning of the economy as well as for the social development of the state. We should try to build such working conditions for foreigners so that they want to stay in our country and not just be seasonal workers. A very large group of seasonal workers are Ukrainians, but they only come to our country for a few months and then leave. I am aware that we are not able to compete, for example. with Germany in terms of wages, but we should create competitive conditions. I agree that the provisions introduced by this amendment will be an additional burden for employers wishing to make use of this possibility and that these solutions, due to the expansion of the administrative system and procedures, will also entail an increase in costs for the state budget. However, this is a small price incurred in exchange for the benefits of the bill submitted. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u445	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters (Prints No. 1738 and 1745). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy after considering on 18 July the Senate amendment concerning Article. Point 1 (4) and Article. 12a paragraph. 7 Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer, etc., print No. 1738, asks the High Sejm to accept the amendment of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u447	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u448	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 15 July 2017 on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The Senate introduces an amendment to the text of the Act, which is legislative and editorial in nature. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u449	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of employers and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The Senate at its meeting on 15 July 2017 introduced one amendment to amend the provisions of Article. Point 1 (4) and Article. 12a paragraph. 7. The statement of false testimony shall be replaced by the statement of false statement. The Civic Platform supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u451	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u452	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour and pleasure to present my position on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, print no. 1738. The Senate introduces the following amendment to the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters: in Art. 1 in point 4 and in Article. 12a in the mouth. 7 in the first and third sentences, the words "submission of false statements' shall be replaced by the words "submission of false statements'. This provision provides that the Marshal of the voivodship shall pay the employees an advance against unmet claims by the employer, and the employee shall submit to the Marshal of the voivodship an application for payment of the advance and shall be required under criminal responsibility to include a statement containing certain information. The criminal liability clause reflects the regulation of the Article. 233 § 6 of the Penal Code, which constitutes criminal liability for lodging a false statement, not a statement. It's two different things to make false statements, and it's two different things to make a false statement. Since the Law refers several times to the appropriate application of the provision of the Article. 12a paragraph. 7 - in Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 15, Art. 16, Art. 23 - The Senate considered it appropriate to clarify in an amendment ensuring terminology consistency with the relevant provision of the Penal Code. And he did very well. To sum up, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 is applying for an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u453	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. There is no Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas made a statement in writing. None of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have submitted a question. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party is on the side of employees, so we will support all projects to accelerate the provision of financial assistance to employees in any case. This is also very important in the event of the employer's cessation of activities when employees have been deprived of their employment and employment benefits. As an appropriate move, we assess the clarification of the provisions on advance payments against employees' claims, the equivalent of leave, reference periods. The amendment will also benefit those associated with the employer himself - protection of employees' claims will also be covered by persons such as the spouse or children of the employer or spouse, i.e. those who have so far been excluded from protection because they may have had an impact on the activities of a natural person running his own company. Any amendments to ordering such cases will support the PSL club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u455	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 29th agenda for the report of the Senate's Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Rules for the Financing of Science and some other laws will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1739 and 1742). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 July 2017, the Infrastructure Commission adopted a resolution of the Senate, prints 1739 and 1742, on the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act and on certain other laws, together with two amendments. 1. Amendment: in Article 1 in point 31, point (a) is deleted. c. 2nd Amendment: Article 10 in point 4, the words "Article." 1 point 45 (a) (a) shall be replaced by the words "Article." 1 point 45 (a) b. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u457	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has tabled two amendments to the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to respond to them. In our view, the first amendment raises doubts. What is it? In current legal solutions, every valuer is obliged to apply legal provisions in the performance of professional activities, which is natural, and among others. professional standards. They shall be determined by professional organisations of property experts in agreement with the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. However, for almost 13 years this provision, which is passed to professional experts' organisations, has been agreed on only one standard and there is no indication of a change in this order of things. The lack of standards has a negative impact on the quality of real estate valuations and at the same time makes it difficult for public administrations and courts to make a sound assessment of the evidence of estimated operations. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club maintains its position that the establishment of professional standards should be taken over by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, which will remedy the disability of the mechanism currently operating, which should be considered highly inefficient. This will improve the functioning of public administrations and courts in the area under consideration today. The second amendment, which corrects the erroneous reference in Article. 1 point 45 of point (a) and for lithium b, is extremely editorial and does not raise any doubts. To sum up, the Law and Justice Club will vote against the first amendment and the second amendment will be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr. Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club. You're welcome. There isn't. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u460	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party will vote on the amendments tabled by the Senate as follows. With regard to Amendment 1, we are of the opinion that we should vote against this amendment and reject it. This was our position also during the debate and when reporting these entries. On the other hand, we are in favour of Amendment 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. To this point, none of the ladies... [[Excuse me, is there still a point 30? Is there a lot of acceleration?]] You're welcome. Yeah, yeah. No, there's a delay, you can even... [[We're talking about amendments, right?]] Yeah, real estate. [[On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I'd like to...]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u462	I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I did not listen to the debate, but I know that we have these two amendments and I would like to say that on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, we will be against the first one, and in the second case we will be in favour. I think there was a similar explanation here, so that we are also part of this argument. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u463	Thank you, sir. Yes, I do, sir. I've been reading, you must not have heard. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski wanted to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the clubs who voted against the first amendment. Indeed, as a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I believe that this amendment of the Senate should be rejected. Since the beginning of my ministry, I've had conversations with the community of organizations, experts. It seemed that there was a chance to set standards, at least one, which at the moment is very, very needed, i.e. the standard relating to the valuation of real estate for the purpose of expropriation under the road. There are a lot of irregularities in this area. This standard is missing. Unfortunately, a year and a half of work failed. The last time that was set, so to speak, the agreement could take place was on 30 June this year. Unfortunately, organisations could not set this standard. I think he was rejected by the organizations in mid-June. On 30 June, this decision was presented to me, and another deadline was requested. As it has been said, in the last many years one standard has been established in 2010 so-called. banking. We have no guarantee that organisations can actually agree with the Minister, and unfortunately there is an initiative on their side. They have to go with me, I'm sorry, with the minister, not the other way around. It is therefore necessary to establish such a standard as soon as possible. Here I can declare on behalf of the Ministry that we will consult these standards with the community of experts, while the initiative will be on our side. We've worked out a position. Many expert organisations present their position in this regard. There are those who think that this standard should not be that we can act as we have so far. This is a very bad situation that lacks standards. So that I thank you for this position of clubs that will vote against the first amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u465	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 31 of the agenda for the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law will not be discussed at the current meeting of the Sejm. I would like to inform you that point 32 of the agenda concerning the report of the Senate's committee on the amendment of the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Cooperative Law will not be considered today. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, [[Frontex]] signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017 (prints No 1694 and 1755). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to present a report on the work of these joint committees which took place on 18 July this year. They concerned ratification of the agreement on the establishment of the seat, the agreement on the establishment of the seat of Frontex between the Polish Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, called Frontex. It's a 1694 sejm printing. High Izbo! I am aware that it is late, and I am pleased to present to you a law which is probably rare in this House, because it was adopted unanimously, unanimously, during the work of the joint committees. It was not controversial because - it can be said - it is a technical law which aims to regulate the seat of the agency in the territory of the Republic of Poland and other matters related thereto, as well as the functioning of the agency. In order not to prolong, High Izbo, in this contract, among others. the following issues have been covered: the agency's legal statute, exemption from administrative charges, exemption from customs duties, prohibitions, import restrictions, export restrictions, rules on diplomatic mail, exemption from taxes, rules on entry, residence, departures of members and management of the agency, simply the operation of staff. So it's just a technical act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present this opinion that the joint committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have unanimously adopted the proposal for a procedated law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u467	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And here again I ask Mr Kaleta, who now represents the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly. Being consistent in what I just said, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill being drafted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the law authorising the ratification of the Headquarters Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex). This agreement regulates the construction of the permanent headquarters of Frontex in Warsaw at ul. Raclawicka. It also regulates diplomatic immunity in accordance with the Vienna Convention for key Frontex staff. It also provides training at European school. Either it will be created, or one of the schools will receive this statute, so that the staff of Frontex, which is the number of employees to reach 1 000, will have the highest level of education of their children here in Warsaw. I would like to say that Frontex has been operating in Warsaw for a number of years in rented premises. Children go to international schools, which we have quite a lot in Warsaw, and on a good level. This agreement is more targeted and more stable in regulating the presence of this important European agency, which assists national border guards in the protection of European borders in analyses, in equipment, in additional joint research that supports the most vulnerable sections. It is therefore an important agency in today's Europe as regards the protection of the Union, the borders of the European Union, in particular the borders of the Schengen area. So that the improvement of these conditions and the sustainability of their status are of course necessary and deliberate. This will preserve the functioning of this agency in better conditions in Poland. The club, as I said, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u471	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm not late anymore, I'm on time. I would like to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Headquarters Agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. In the last few years, the priority of the European Union is to protect the borders of our continent. In the face of the influx of migrants from the countries of North Africa and the Middle East and the unstable situation in eastern Ukraine, we should seal our borders. There have been terrorist attacks in the West every month. Some of the bombers have reached Europe illegally, on the roads that have crossed our leaky European borders. The eastern land border of Poland is also one of the longest land sections of the external borders of the European Union. Poland runs the most important trans-European transport route east-west. Therefore, if we are talking about European solidarity, Poland should actively participate in the protection of the Union's borders. Because we are an important link in this protection, Frontex has chosen Warsaw as its headquarters. In view of the need to regulate the seat of the agency in our country, we should adopt this bill. With Frontex, Member States exposed to the influx of illegal immigrants can receive additional technical assistance, equipment and support for trained workers. The entry into force of the law will contribute to deepening cooperation between our country and Frontex. The Agency will plan, design and build its headquarters in Warsaw at its cost. According to estimates, it will allocate between EUR 100 and 120 million. Poland, for its part under the agreement, is to guarantee the reimbursement of the costs of education for the children of the Agency's employees, to plan a tax exemption for employees and to transfer the land to its premises free of charge. Kukiz15, recognising that the Republic of Poland should actively participate in the protection of the borders of the European Union, is in favour of deepening cooperation with the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u473	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u474	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The proposal submitted to the High Chamber authorising the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the signed agreement on the seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex deserves the support of the club of the Polish People's Party. Already in 2007 an agreement was signed between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Executive Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union on the seat and other matters related to the functioning of the Agency in the Republic of Poland. This was the beginning of close cooperation between our country and the agency. Over time, European laws have been issued amending and clarifying the issues of premises and facilities in the Member States where the Agency is established. It is understandable and natural that a Member State should ensure appropriate and appropriate conditions for agency staff and members of their families. Against the backdrop of a complicated international situation, from June 2016 onwards, there has been a strong acceleration in negotiating work aimed at developing a common view on the proposal to locate the future seat of the Agency in Poland. The very purpose of the agency probably does not need to be persuaded by anybody in this Chamber, but even the noblest goals or intentions not supported by legal tools and technical and logistical solutions would be flawed. This Act, following an in-depth examination of its provisions at the meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs deserves support, given the benefits to our country through its impact on the economy. A positive effect for the state budget will be the absence of costs associated with the construction of the Agency's seat. The Polish website is to provide the ground prepared for the agencies, technical support and security support by the end of 2018. The Agreement also provides for the exemption of the Agency's staff for one year or more from the tax on goods and services, with exceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Presenting the position of the club of the Polish People's Party, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, I declare that we will vote in favour of the report of the joint committees. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u475	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. And you are the first question to be asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Is the fact that the headquarters of Frontex, employing many representatives of foreign countries, will be located on the street. Racławicka 132 in Warsaw, which is a few meters from the Polish Intelligence Agency, will not adversely affect our security? What's the intelligence agency's opinion here? And the next question is: Do you know what percentage of 1 000. will the employees be Polish staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u477	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question, this time the second question, will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a brief question: What were the negotiations on the free transfer of land to the Agency's premises? Did Poland itself propose to transfer this land free of charge, or did Frontex demand it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u479	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer the questions by Minister Jakub Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mr Khrushch's question about security. That's the point. not only the Intelligence Agency, because a new headquarters of the Internal Security Agency is also envisaged in close proximity. But there's no security collision here. First of all, one thing must be emphasised: we are a member of the European Union and Frontex is also our agency. That's the way to deal with it. On the other hand, each of these agencies has its own means of securing which are adequate, adequate and modern, so that none of these institutions has raised objections to such a prospect of the neighbourhood, so there is no justification for this concern. As regards the status of staff, i.e. The participation of Poles in Frontex staff is currently at 1/3. It is true that we are not entirely satisfied with the rank of this staff. There must be a lot of different procedures to ensure that they are not just auxiliary, technical, or executive staff. The idea is that there should also be greater participation of Poles in the level of leadership of the agency. Of course, this is not the subject of this agreement. This agreement concerns the issue of seat, so the case requires additional action. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Sachajka's question of intent, on whose side this initiative came out here, well, the matter has a long history, because Frontex came to Poland in 2005, but unfortunately there has been no agreement for a very long time. The reasons were different, they could be analyzed for a long time. I can only say that the Government of Law and Justice has been making very intensive efforts since 2015 to make such an agreement signed. This was at a time of increasing tension caused by the migratory crisis, and there was also a very serious bitterness in the European Commission and in the Member States the lack of such an agreement for several years. It seems that the interests of other countries who wanted to take this opportunity to move this agency to each other were also known. They were talking about Italy, they were talking about Romania. This has put enough pressure on the government to negotiate, i.e. these negotiations have taken place in difficult or even very difficult conditions, and I have to say that the government has assumed that Frontex is precisely the agency which perfectly corresponds to the intentions and policies of the government, which has always placed the issue of border protection above all other problems related to migration policy and asylum policy. The difficulty and the high barrier that the European Commission put to the Polish Government was the adoption of the deadline for the final conclusion of this agreement, which was an exceptional solution, because it did not actually happen that a country based in such an agency would face such a condition. However, in a very short period of time these negotiations have managed to bring an end, which should be seen as the first very big success. The second very big success, which today was also emphasized in this Chamber, are the very favourable conditions under which this agreement has been concluded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u481	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Headquarters Agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017, in prints no. 1694 and 1755. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Agreement on the seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. The draft agreement itself was drawn up in order to remedy this issue of the seat of Frontex in Poland and other matters relating to the functioning of the agency in our country. So far, the area governed by the agreement, namely the seat and other matters relating to the functioning of the Frontex agency in the territory of the Republic of Poland, has regulated the agreement between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Executive Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union of 26 March 2007. The agreement regulates issues, among others. the freedom of communication of the Agency, the identification cards of the Agency's staff, the location of its seat, the security and security of the Agency, the training of the children of officials and other staff of the Agency and the settlement of disputes. As a result of the amendment of Council Regulation No 2007/2004 of 26 October 2004 establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex), which was the basis for the conclusion of the said agreement, a new agreement was necessary. As I said at the outset, the bill concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify this new agreement. High Izbo! The entry into force of the new agreement will contribute to the deepening of cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Frontex and will provide the Agency with a permanent seat and conditions of operation in the territory of the Republic of Poland. I also agree with the proposal put forward by the government in the explanatory memorandum that the agreement shows that for the Polish side the protection of the external borders of the European Union is an extremely important element of the Polish government's policy. It is also another bond between Poland and the European Union, which will make it harder for the current majority to bring Poland out of the European Union. The Modern Posel Club is applying for the adoption by the High Chamber of the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u483	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law Tax Order, the Law on Public Finance and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration (Prints No. 1677 and 1758). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u484	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report in print No. 1758 on the Government's draft law amending the Law Tax Order, the Law on Public Finance and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, the original printing No. 1677. This project amends three laws: firstly, in the Tax Order, secondly, in the Public Finance Act and thirdly in the Rules implementing the National Tax Administration Act. As a result of the proposed amendments to the Act, the Director of National Tax Information will be obliged to ask the Head of National Tax Administration for an opinion only if the issue arising from the background of the facts or future event has not been previously assessed by the Head of National Tax Administration. The purpose of the proposed amendment provided for in Article. 1 point 2 of the draft law is to facilitate the implementation of the provisions of the Tax Order as regards the keeping of the Register of Tax Courts by supplementing the provision of the article. 43 Tax Order for a delegation enabling the keeping of a register other than the head of the National Tax Administration to be entrusted to a body of the National Tax Administration. The amendment contained in Article. 2 of the draft law, consisting of the addition of an article. 3a in the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 is linked to the need to explicitly exclude the application of Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 15 December 2016 on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland in relation, first, to financial operations relating to the implementation of the State budget and the budget of European funds, including banking services, second, financial operations relating to the measures referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 2 and 3 of the Public Finance Act, and thirdly, borrowing and lending, issuing treasury securities and other operations directly related to the management of the State Treasury debt. At its meeting, the Committee on Public Finance adopted the amendment tabled to the article. 3 of the proposed law on Article. 259 Laws Introducing the National Tax Administration Act. This amendment aims to align the bill with the requirements of the Public Finance Act. Solutions contained in the said Article. 259 Laws Introducing the National Tax Administration Act are exceptional in nature and are justified in the case of the creation of new institutions during the financial year. In view of the fact that Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The 9th National Tax Administration Act requires that the budget section dedicated to the National Tax Administration be separated, in the draft Budget Act for 2018 this part should already be separated. The amendment adopted maintains a temporary arrangement consisting in financing the activities of the National Tax Administration from the budget of the Ministry of Finance, but only until the end of this year. The Commission has also made legislative changes. The Committee on Public Finances requests the High Sejm to adopt the Commission's report, print No. 1758, government draft law amending the Tax Order, the Public Finance Act and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u485	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be the first to speak as a representative of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Tax Order Act, the Public Finance Act and the Law introducing the Law on National Tax Administration. The National Tax Administration Act and the laws implementing this law... Already today, it can be said that, contrary to all these promises, contrary to the fear that has taken place here, both that it will be some police on entrepreneurs chasing the spirit of guilty people to God, and that there will be a total anarchy and a mess, none of these casandrical visions have worked out. In fact, the idea of today's new law and its most important issue, as the rapporteur has already said, is that the implementation of the activities of the National Tax Administration can take place within the existing part of the state budget. To be honest, it is too optimistic that the draft deadline of 31 August 2017 is the maximum deadline for the separation of part of the state budget, which is why the amendments are moving in this direction. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice obviously supports these changes and these necessary adjustments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-19-sejm-46-2.u487	Thank you very much, sir. Janusz Silchoń left a statement in writing. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Pampuch left a statement in writing. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska left a statement in writing. None of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have submitted a question. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 19 July this year. I would like to inform you that two Members have come forward to make their statements: Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice - a written statement and Mr Sylvester Chruscz, Kukiz.15 - there is no Member. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Mr Sylwester Khrushch and Mr Waldemar Andzel's statements were made in writing. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow... until today, I'm sorry, because it's after midnight, i.e. by 20 July, at 10 p.m. 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 05]]
