ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u1	Resume session. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 533, and the committee's report in print No 533 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, which took place on 11 July 2017, the day before yesterday. The Act concerns the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. That law was adopted by the Sejm on 22 June 2017. The aim of this amendment is to facilitate the implementation of housing investments not only in the form of apartments for rent, but also in the form of cooperative housing units. This law was a government project. The amendment to the Act results from the assumptions of the National Housing Programme project and from the conclusions of the first edition of the housing promotion programme in the field of social rent building, which was launched on 1 November 2015 on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 9 September 2015 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The amendment of this law is necessary in order to remove the barriers that block investors from participating in the programme. Such a barrier is, first, the financing of only premises for rent, without the possibility of financing cooperative tenant's right to housing, second, the absolute condition for the allocation of a minimum of 50% of premises for persons raising at least one of their own or adopted children. The Act removes this barrier by introducing preferences for families with children. Thirdly, it is about barriers to financing projects, problems arising from the continued exploitation of residential premises built under the programme, including significantly reduced income limits for tenants in rental resources. Fifthly, it is about tightening the rules for raising rent to people with income exceeding even slight limits laid down by law. Sixthly, about a mechanism to value paid participation in the construction costs of the premises. The Act amends 3 laws, i.e. the Act of 15 December 2000 on housing cooperatives, the Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of municipalities and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. Currently, it is possible to apply for financial support only in the case of the construction of apartments for rent. The changes will make it possible to finance other usable areas which will serve to meet needs, for example. older people. The obligation to enter into an agreement between the borrower and the municipality was waived, indicating a minimum number of dwellings, the tenants of which will be persons raising at least one child, at a level of not less than 50%. all premises, which was a major barrier to participation in the programme in the case of local communities with lower participation of families with children. This barrier will be abolished by this law, an amendment to the preferences for these families. In order to facilitate the financing of projects implemented under the social housing programme, the maximum amount of the tenant's participation in construction costs will also be increased from 25% to 30%. This is intended to ensure greater flexibility required at the financing stage. This will also affect the lower rents of social housing companies. The formula for calculating the amount of participation returned has also been clarified... The Law also clarifies the formula for calculating the amount of participation reimbursed in the construction costs of the dwelling. It also lays down the principle that a natural person who has entered into an agreement with the company on participation in the cost of building a dwelling may, without the agreement of the company, transfer the rights and obligations resulting from that agreement to the tenant he or she has designated, provided that the tenant is a spouse, a relative or a relative of that person. The Act also increases the income limits for renting a dwelling where the construction of the premises was linked to the conclusion of a participation agreement providing for participation in the costs of an investment and construction project at a level of not less than 10%. The Act introduces more flexible rules when the tenant exceeds the income thresholds laid down in the Act, which is beneficial for the tenants. Following the adoption of this law, there will be no obligation to automatically increase the rent rate in the case of a small surplus of household income. In the event of the expiry of the cooperative right to a residential establishment established for a building built using reverse financing, the housing cooperative may not apply the tendering procedure but may establish a cooperative tenant right to a dwelling exclusively for persons fulfilling the conditions laid down in the Act. The tenant of a social housing company shall submit to the company once every 2 years, by 31 May of the year concerned, a declaration on the average monthly income per household in the previous year and inform the company immediately of the acquisition of a legal title for another dwelling. The Act introduces an obligation to terminate the lease agreement for the tenant, if for the third time, for 3 consecutive periods of 2 years the tenant's income exceeds 50% the value of the average national remuneration. So if this is done, it will turn out that if income declarations are made every 2 years by 31 May of the year, then from now on, it will only be possible to terminate the contract of the tenant, who for 3 consecutive periods has simply higher income. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the 2 Joint Committees, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to propose to the High House that the High House adopt this law without amendments, because this is what both committees have done, which have unanimously issued a positive opinion on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u4	Mr. Senator, how is an increase in the amount that is necessary as an own contribution from 25% to 30% and the amount of income for some apartments to improve the availability of this scheme for people?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u5	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u6	Mr. Senator, that wasn't exactly the case at the committee meeting. But I think if the tenant has a bigger share, which means he's gonna spend more money on the apartment, it's gonna be easier for the local government. or housing cooperatives... There will be an incentive for the rest of them to submit, and the tenant will be able to have a lower rent. So he's right up the ante, so he's got more participation, more participation, but that's why he's got a lower rent. It will also encourage the tenant to be more interested in participating in construction costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u7	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes.]] Hello, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The bill under consideration today is part of the "Accommodation" package, so-called "Accommodation" package. The second pillar. And the pillar is a commercial pillar, implemented at the moment by BGK Real Estate It is a company of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, as part of the piloting process. In Parliament, in the first Chamber, i.e. in the Seym, there is a new draft law on National Property Resources, where resources will be collected; it is a kind of land bank. On these lands the State Treasury will also carry out a residential project. This is the second pillar, which is social rent construction. I know there were questions in the Sejm, so maybe there were questions in order to explain the doubts... There's a mechanism for solving contracts in TBS. If someone for 3 consecutive rent verifications exceeds the income thresholds by more than 50% The average wage in the household is then, after these 3 checks, a termination of the contract will take place. It is only important to remember that the first such solution will only take place in almost 6.5 years, almost 7 years, because after 2 years a check is made. Besides, income thresholds are very high. Well, I'll consider my Pomeranian voivodeship, where in the case of a 1-person household income per person is almost PLN 3,700, so this person must exceed by 50%, i.e. We assume that someone who earns more than PLN 5,000 should already use not a social resource, but an own resource, because either he can afford credit or rent a place to fire these premises for people who can't afford to buy an apartment on the free market. In the case of a 2-person family it is almost 5 thousand PLN. Income must also be exceeded by 50%. In the case of a three-person case, it is almost PLN 7,000, so it would have to be over PLN 10,000. Well, like someone, even in the case of a three-person family, has a income of over PLN 10,000... This is not enough under Polish conditions. Such people should not live in social resources, but TBS is a social construction and the principle of certain social justice requires verification. Like... there's gonna be another bill coming up on social housing and supporting this construction. There, too, we introduce a new fixed-term contract for municipal resources, and we will also be able to verify rents and such a person... It will also be possible to terminate the contract or increase the rent on the terms that apply here. There's a few... We are introducing new funding rules, a new instrument 20 per cent of local investment funding. If someone does not want to build social housing under Pillar I, they can get 20% of the funding and with any investor or company, or an investor on the market can also build apartments for rent, provided that the rent does not exceed 4% the replacement value. There is also funding from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for rent construction, where in turn there is a reduction in the 5% replacement value in terms of rent. There we plan to finance over PLN 4.5 billion. In turn, where we have communal housing, we anticipate financing of 3.7 billion. This will generate projects worth PLN 11 billion, i.e. approx. 30 and 40 thousand apartments. Here, in turn, we predict that it will be ok. 94,000 apartments. So that more than 100,000 apartments with funding from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego can be created by 2030 under this programme. The law was widely consulted. Society for Social Construction They're looking forward to this opportunity. We are restoring the liquidation in 2009. National Housing Fund. We are restoring funding not as part of the fund, but as part of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, where there are preferential loans. Housing cooperatives... Contrary to the opposition's opinion that we are now giving the cooperatives some money... It's not, it's not, it's not, because it's feedback. Cooperatives must return these funds, as well as local governments or social housing associations. That's it, Mr. Marshal. Questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit from a place of no more than a minute's duration a request to a representative of the government, to the Minister, which is, of course, related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Blackbay.]] Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm sorry, I didn't ask that question at the committee meeting, so I'd like to ask it here. Assuming that all the elements presented by the Minister will function on the market in 2018. And I understand that it is not so that we within a given time I'm sorry, I'm talking about Poland, I'm not talking about Law and Justice, we're going to build 300 and 400 thousand apartments, because this is a dream. But tell me what it's gonna look like. Let's say that in 2018 the entire instrumentarium will operate on the market, there will be an appropriate commitment... I'm sure you've been doing this kind of simulation. How many apartments can be created every year in 2018 or 2019 when all instruments function?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u11	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u12	As far as market solutions are concerned, it is impossible to quantify the effects of their introduction. As far as social construction is concerned, it is as I said, i.e. as part of the whole programme it is to be 94 plus 40, i.e. About 130,000 locations. If we divide this into specific years by 2030. It's going to be 8 years. It comes out a dozen thousand premises a year that can be built. Well, there could be more. It is also difficult to say how strongly the local authorities will benefit from this support. After all, at the first hand, which was realized by the previous government according to the old rules, these support instruments, which were so far, had very little interest. We are definitely improving it here, also taking advantage of previous experiences. It's not like we're rejecting solutions that were good. We are improving these solutions because we want more premises, and, as I said, local governments stopped building municipal buildings, TBSs and housing cooperatives also stopped building when KFM was liquidated. If we restore construction now... the tenant's right to the premises... Because there's a lot of interest in cooperatives to build. Cooperatives are talking about dozens, maybe 100,000 buildings that they want to build in a few years. So it's impossible to tell clearly how many of these locations are going to be. I'm sure every place that's gonna be built... There will certainly be more than there have been so far, because there has been no cooperative construction so far, or we can say that it was so small that it did not matter in the market. Local governments have practically pulled out of it, too. It was about the lack of own resources and the fact that there was virtually no social financing, i.e. government funding. And so is TBS. So any place that's gonna be built... There's gonna be more of them than there was. If there's 10,000 of them, that's 10,000 more locations. This year there will be more than 4,000 MdM locations that wouldn't have been there if we hadn't made that change. Within 2 years, 4,000 MdM locations will be created. So we add a thousand to a thousand. Well, there's gonna be more of these places than we've ever been before. Last year we built in Poland We're talking about construction all the time. More than 162 thousand locations, so we reached the level of 2008. In 2008, there were 160,000 premises, then there was a decline to one hundred and thirty-six thousand, in 2016, there were 162 thousand... This year I'm just going to quote two parameters, and the building permits were issued by almost 40%. more than last year, and last year there were more than in 2015; and in 2017 there were almost 20% more constructions started. This indicates that, as I'm going to say, the housing machinery is developing. And every instrument we put in here will undoubtedly start another new building. The number of permits issued this year again exceeds... There's 30% more of them than last year. We have the data from the end of May. The same is true of the constructions that have begun. That means we're building more. At the moment, it's still mostly commercial construction. It can be seen that investors are not afraid that the economy is going to collapse, they are developing, and that is why the economy is developing. We believe that any instrument that we're giving right now will cause even greater growth here. We don't count on building 1 million or 2 million apartments. Our goal is to build a number of apartments by 2030 so that we can get a European average. The previous government boasted that it had built 1 million 200 thousand apartments in eight years. But what if at the beginning of this period we were the last place in Europe and at the end of this period we were still the last place in Europe? We want to leave this last, ungrateful place and every instrument that we are now incorporating into the funding system gives us a chance to leave this place. Like I said, we keep instruments that work well, because they are. There's always talk of MdM here, but we don't think it's a good instrument. In some sense, he has brought some results, and we do not deny it, but he does not meet certain assumptions. We'll talk about it, so maybe I won't talk about it right now. There are no concrete assumptions. about the number. It's not that we have to build 20,000 apartments next year, and the next year we have to build 30,000 more apartments. We have a final goal in terms of achieving a European average. This European average is going to grow, and we want to go with it and have more apartments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to know if, according to the Ministry, there is any postulated geography of social construction. Is the initiative only on the side of local governments, or is it possible for the state, with the right instruments, like BGK, to stimulate this process? Of course, this geography in relation to different indicators, e.g. unemployment, is extremely important for people or families concerned. The point is that they don't have to run all over Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u15	In the case of this pillar, there are no instruments within which we could distinguish local governments. We can do this with regard to the commercial pillar, because we have our own land. Where our land is... We can do more in smaller towns, and that is what we want to do, so that these activities are not just in large towns, where, as we know, there is the greatest pressure, I will say on the number of apartments and on their purchase. People are running away from small towns because there's no offer there. And this is an opportunity for small local governments, because that's where housing can be built. In these smaller towns there are no TBSs, no housing cooperatives, no developers. There is only a local government, possibly state-supported construction within the commercial pillar. Of course, there are good projects, as evidenced by, for example, the Pomeranian Pelplin, a small town, an 8-thousand town, where at the beginning it was stated: we will not build, because it is not profitable for us. And it turns out it pays off. In this small town there are almost 500 families who have applied to the housing program and who are able to pay the rent. At the moment, 180 apartments are being built there, and the mayor is already waiting for the land of the State Treasury, because it doesn't have its own, and he wants us to build more apartments on these land. Such examples will be very much in Poland In small towns, no commercial investor has yet decided to build, and we are doing it. There are many such examples, and I think that next year there will be the first settlements, such as in Jarocina or Biała Podlaski. There will be further projects this year, and next year there will be a chance for more apartments. And here is the possibility of influencing that in smaller towns... This problem is everywhere, and in western Poland, and in eastern Poland, but especially in small towns it is a big problem. And that's where we want these apartments to be built. The instruments I am talking about here give small local governments a chance, because especially there is social construction, where funding is from 35% to up to 55%... Local governments will also be able to benefit from this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you mentioned cooperation in your speech, among others. with housing cooperatives. If in two sentences, you were so synthetically to say what this cooperation is and what a positive effect this will have for this programme... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: This is the restoration of...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u18	One moment, Minister, one moment. We'll group up the questions. Senator Bierecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u19	I have a question actually very similar to what Senator Napieralski asked. I would like to congratulate the Minister on restoring the cooperative tenant right to the premises. It is an important change and possibility to activate housing cooperatives in the housing market. These huge units and huge companies, such as housing cooperatives, were in some sense dormant and marginalized in the market where private developers ruled. This is about Senator Napieralski's question. I have a question about the restoration of this tenant right, the cooperative right to the premises. In Poland we have over 1 million housing books of PKO BP bank. These housing books were linked to the cooperative right to the premises. It was the cooperatives that were supposed to provide housing... not housing, but the right to the premises, to give the owners of these housing books a cooperative right to the premises. This problem hasn't been solved. In the last 20 years, the Law and Justice Club applied to the Constitutional Tribunal, which was in its previous term of office. Now there is probably no need to do so, since cooperative rights are being restored to the premises. Is the Ministry interested in working on solving PKO BP housing books using the restored cooperative right to the premises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u20	Thank you very much. And one last question. Senator Slugocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, High Senate... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear. Microphone...]] [[No, that's not gonna make it...]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Minister, I have a question. You talked about those actions that will be undertaken by local governments, e.g. Jarocin. I agree, you are absolutely right, that it is important to activate this market and start construction in smaller towns, of course, whether it is, as you have rightly pointed out, Eastern Poland, western Poland, northern Poland or southern Poland. But here's the question. Today, of course, supply exceeds demand, local governments are not so interested. But if, I hope, sooner or later, the demand for these instruments exceeded supply, what are the mechanisms for qualifying potential local governments? I mean, which one of the municipalities would have a better chance. Are there any criteria that will decide that self-government X and not self-government Y will receive these funds? That's one question. The second concerns the interest in these instruments. Don't you think about other incentives that would make local government units even more interested in reaching for this money, which would change the situation on the housing market a little bit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u22	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u23	Maybe Senator Napieralski's question first. Mr Senator, Mr Bierecki has already partially joined the discussion here in response. First of all, it is about restoring the tenant's right to the premises, because cooperatives at a time when, first, the financing from the National Housing Fund, which was liquidated in 2009, was discontinued. And the cooperatives, wanting to build, had to turn into developers. Most cooperatives didn't want that. There are cooperatives who do this, but these are really exceptions on the scale of the country and on the scale of the cooperative. These are really isolated cases when cooperatives build. Cooperatives want to build for their members. Yes? This is the idea of a cooperative, that there are members of a cooperative and I, as a member of a cooperative, am bound by an appropriate legal node, which also gives more certainty than mere rental. A member of the cooperative has more certainty about housing and the legal relationship between him and the cooperative than an ordinary tenant. So that the cooperatives are very interested at the moment in the situation in which we will bring them back to life, if the High House also accepts this law, which I hope will still be processed today, and it will come into force. The tenant's right to a place with the possibility to establish with a co-operative who has a tenant's right to a place, the option of access to property. We can also determine that in 20, 30 or 10 years I'll be able to own this place. Yes? I have a tenant's right to a place, but I'll be able to access the property. It is also a bow towards this Polish trend, because we all want to be owners. Right? The wealth of society is growing, but we are not as wealthy as Germany. And in Europe, the richer the society, the less property, which Germany is an example of. There's less than 50% of them are the owners of the apartments, the rest are the tenants, and we have 85% of them. And that is also a problem, because apartments for commercial rent in Poland are about 4% so that this market is virtually gone. We want to create such a market with all these instruments. So there's a lot of interest in the cooperative. I am convinced that it will simply translate into real construction. As far as housing books are concerned, this is indeed a huge problem. And that also requires some public explanation. Those who have these books expect to have some property in their apartment. I myself, in the past, have used this opportunity. My parents put it on my book, and then I had a little bachelorette, but it was a tenant's apartment. It was a deposit of about 30% of the value of this apartment. These books were supposed to satisfy a deposit of about 30%. values, no more. Right now, everyone who has those old books expects to get their own apartments in exchange for the book. That's not an option. We undoubtedly talked about this with Mr Bierecki recently, and we will try to start work so that we can actually use these books, perhaps as part of the tenancy mechanism, of the right to a place or in any other way, in general as part of housing. Next week, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers becomes a draft law on individual housing accounts. It is a systematic saving for apartments with a bonus from the Polish state. You can also possibly... We foresee the possibility that these funds can be allocated to a housing account and get an additional bonus from the Polish State if it is intended to be used for the housing purpose. That's the goal. And as for the senator's next question, about local governments, it's obviously political tone that doesn't matter here. I can give you an example from Pomerania. There's a mayor in Pelplin who ran on the PiS list. And that's where the investment is made. The neighborhood is Starogard Gdański, where the agreement is already concluded and where is the president who ran from the SLD list And that's where we do it. So that here really political colors don't matter, there are no preferences. Those self-governments who want it and meet the conditions will be able to get funding. And there are examples of that already. I think we're doing this for the citizens, not for the mayors or the presidents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u24	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you very much. [[There's Senator Czerwinski.]] Oh, you're Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One small question, Minister, related to the definitions that introduce new rules. In the new version of the article. 29, or actually in the added mouth. 5 We give a natural person who has concluded an agreement with the company on participation in construction costs, the possibility of transferring the lease contract to spouses, relatives or relatives of that person. But it's such a stretchy concept. What does it mean to be a relative or a relative? That's not in this bill. There's no definition of that. At least a reference to the civil code or the family code would have to be used, I don't know. Because, ladies and gentlemen, he may be practically a person from the other end of the globe, if you look well, a relative too. Minister, isn't this too extensive?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u26	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u27	Thank you. Mr. Senator, the definitions of a relative and a relative in civil law are in the family code and the civil code. And we're here as part of that. We also introduce restrictions. So far there has been no restriction and there has been so-called. trade in participations, these participations were transferred to foreign persons, etc. It was a pathological phenomenon that we're eliminating right now. If anyone wants to transfer participation, it has to be a relative or a relative. Yes? And that's a justification, then you can move this participation. It's just that it's not between strangers... It was a phenomenon, I would say, of an increasing scale, absolutely contrary to the idea of this solution. As I say, the civil code, the family code and the guardian code govern these issues. This bill doesn't touch it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u28	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] None of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Antoni Szymański, Maciej Łuczak and Robert Mamytkow made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that item 5 of the agenda, i.e. The law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws, was considered yesterday. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Rules of Finance for Science and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 558 and the committee's report in print No 558 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, President of Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: I'm going to look for him.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I didn't announce a break, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Can I consider the next item? Because I'm gonna have to leave.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we'll move on to point seven, and then we'll be back by six. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 557, and the committee's report in print No 557 A. Please, the rapporteur... [[There isn't any either.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He was just a minute ago and he left. I'm calling a 10-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 39 to 9 minutes 45]] Ladies and gentlemen, our break is over. Let's get back to work. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Wacha, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee on this case, that is, the Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency, met yesterday morning. This is a whole new bill. In the shortest possible way, it would have to be said that the Act removes the post-transformation office of recognition of diplomas and academic exchanges and establishes an agency as a body with broader tasks and actually much higher status, corresponding to what we see in other European countries. So that the discussion... The law states that the funding of this agency comes from a budget that was foreseen for the recognition office at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and from a program that was not implemented, a study for outstanding, within which students were to be sent abroad. So that the financing of this law is formalized in this way. At the committee meeting there was a rather detailed discussion on the law, amendments were tabled. The main amendments concerned the name of the agency. The name of the Polish Academic Exchange Agency and the Polish National Academic Exchange Agency was proposed along with the justification. Other amendments were also tabled concerning the required qualifications of the director and composition of the board, proposing to include the Polish Academy of Sciences there. In general, the law did not raise objections, but these various details concerning its functioning were discussed. Professor Seweryński referred to the scope of the operation and the way in which the scope of the agency's activities is formulated, which is defined in Article. 2 laws. And only the amendment made by Professor Sewerinski, contained in the committee's report, which defines in a more correct and general way the scope of the agency's activities and introduces the wording of "supporting cooperation" because it is about supporting international academic cooperation, has been adopted by the committee. So in the end, I'm going to give you this in a very short time. The committee welcomed this law, the proposal and accepted the 1st amendment, the amendment proposed by Professor Severinski and rejected the other amendments. In the vote on the bill, the committee voted unanimously with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask a question? Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Professor, I have a question for you. The Agency is called the National Academic Exchange Agency. Have you discussed the change of name and shouldn't it be the Polish Academic Exchange Agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u32	Yeah, I think I was talking about that. I'll say it again. Amendment I tabled And which I will once again propose in the course of the discussion was aimed at the agency being called the Polish Academic Exchange Agency because its main task is to cooperate with foreign countries, also to exchange correspondence and various activities with foreign countries, so the name of the country is necessary here. The second proposal, which was somewhat compromise, but was expanding the name, came from Professor Żaryn and added to the current name adjective "Polish," would be the Polish National Agency for Academic Exchange. The Minister, who will probably be performing here, explained that he recognises the need to introduce the name of the country and that Poland is mentioned in the prepared charter of the agency. Namely, this English name would be Polish National Agency. I don't know exactly... of Academic Exchange... I don't know exactly how it's formulated, but there's a Polish National Agency. So it would seem logical to do the same in Polish. I will bring this matter again in the discussion because I am rapporteur at the moment. Actually, that's how it went. There was a conclusion that this would be the Polish Agency, that this would be the Polish National Agency, and ultimately none of these requests would have been passed. He only went through the proposal I mentioned concerning the formulation of the scope of the agency's work. [[Senator Probier.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u33	Senator Probier and then Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u34	Professor, can you give us information on the size of this agency's budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u35	No, I think it's better to ask the Minister. We didn't ask that at the committee meeting. However, we asked about the sources and they are mentioned here. Namely, this is what used to have an office of recognition, plus what was in the program for outstanding students, and this is a row of magnitude... tens of millions, but I do not know if 20 or 30 million PLN. But right now, I'm just shooting a little, I think the minister might answer that question more precisely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u36	Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I will also ask the Minister if he would be kind and answer this question, which was justified in the discussion by the lack of this proposal to change the name, especially since, as you rightly pointed out, Senator, in English, this adjective will be. Of course, when we talk about the Polish agency, it is well known that we are talking not about the Spanish people, Mexican people, only Polish people, so I think that adding the adjective to the Polish agency would consummate these issues about the nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u38	I'm sure the Minister can justify that. At the meeting of the committee he said that he and the designers referred to symmetry to the names of NCN and NCBiR, because they begin with the words "National." I think it's... Personally, I think that's a weak justification. This Polish Agency is kind of introduced at a lower level, namely the statutory rather than the statutory level. It seems to me that it would be better to do so at the statutory level, but it certainly did not pass at the committee meeting. [[May I have another sentence, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u39	You're welcome. [[Thank you very much...]] Question, not a sentence. [[Question, yes, of course.]] Yes, a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u40	In my opinion, I don't know if you're gonna share it, which is why I'm asking you, Senator. The National Centre for Research and Development and the National Centre for Science are aimed at the inside, and this agency will target and build relations outside. Therefore, in my view, this adjective of Poland here would be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u41	I mean, there's no dispute between us here. I was the applicant, as well as Professor Żaryn, the introduction to the name of the law and to the content of the law of the word "Polish" and therefore we will not argue about it here. Perhaps we can convince the Minister, during this discussion, who, with the prospect of possible amendments, would decide to change his name. But we have nothing to argue about here, because I am also an applicant and a supporter of this solution, and this was said during the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u42	Thank you very much. Did Senator Probie raise his hand because he wants to ask a question? No. [[Now, Senator Wind.]] Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u43	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Because that's the name we're focusing on... It was the symmetry of NCN and NCBiR names, and here it was said that NCN and NCBiR did not operate internationally. Can the senator, as a professor, confirm that NCN and NCBiR don't do this kind of business? After all, we know that, for example, under the POIR, this international activity is carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u44	Yes, it is run and both these agencies carry out international activities, while there is no doubt that the academic exchange agency, because of its name itself, is addressed abroad. And the justification for being there is pretty strong. But you're also right. Because actually all the academic bodies also apply to individual individuals such as schools They carry out international activities, even within the framework of Erasmus. All higher education and education is focused on cooperation with foreign countries. As an argument, I gave the name DAAD, which is the German agency in which it is called D... This is Deutscher Akademiascher... so it's called German, academic, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u45	Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The task of the Act is among others. dissemination of Polish language, and nothing so litters Polish language as neologists, which are unclear. And this neology, very often used, is in this law. This is, in fact, internationalisation. It is not known in what sense this word exists here. Well, when it comes to general goals, you could still wave your hand at it. But in the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 we have a record that the tasks include increasing the level of internationalisation of the institution. How will this level of internationalisation be measured, what will the indicators be? Or: competitions will be announced in an area of importance in the area of internationalisation of higher education and science... Professor, what is the meaning of this word internationalization?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u47	It's a used word. It's not a beautiful word. As for... the person who spoke at the committee's meeting about the wording and language And it was a critical voice, but it actually ended with one amendment. You were Professor Seweryński, who said he saw more imperfections in the bill, so it's called. But, as I say, he's actually limited himself to the one amendment that went through. However, I would say that the term "internationalisation" is used. It is also used on the occasion of various very popular 'Cause that's where these indicators are used and they're measurable in higher education, e.g. in the Perspectives ranking. It doesn't sound good, but the word itself is used as well as these indicators can be defined. They are measured, among others, by students, PhD students, lecturers from abroad. So for some time now, in this area, the degree of internationalization... And we just got used to it. And it's an acceptable word, I think. And also, this internationalization can be defined enough to measure it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn is asking a question. And who else? I'm sorry. Who? [[I'm not anymore, thank you.]] Not anymore? Good. It's senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, one of the amendments was rejected during our discussion; this was your amendment regarding possible inclusion on the list. I'm saying it colloquially. The shareholders of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Please remind us what were the arguments for and against, so as not to leave a shadow of doubt about the fact that this was not a discussion that would confuse this institution. Because that was not the reason why we ultimately rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u50	Definitely not. The justification for the introduction of the Polish Academy of Sciences between 10, as is so far, the institutions designated by the board members, was and is justified by this I was actually suggesting that. That the Polish Academy of Sciences conducts intensive international activities and institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences... With regard to the number of publications, the figures relating to exchanges with foreign countries and traineeships, research carried out abroad, are actually the largest among all units. So that the direct introduction of the Polish Academy of Sciences as a member of the board, when this council is of a properly consultative nature, because it is not a decision-making character, was, in my opinion, justified. Actually, there were no strong arguments against it. But both the Minister and, I think, Professor Wind I may be wrong here, but I'm sure that's what they said, that the Polish Academy of Sciences is represented indirectly, because in the main council there is a representative and an indirect method can have a voice and some influence on what the council will constitute. The Minister also said that he did not want too much advice that the Council's number in various debates had increased to 10 people. In turn, I think the 11th, so to speak, a member of the council would not destroy in a fundamental way the order of this... And the Polish Academy of Sciences certainly has the largest foreign exchange among these units, especially if we consider research institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Aleksander Bobko is present. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by saying that, as the Senator rapporteur also said, The committee unanimously supported this law. Besides, in the Sejm the bill passed a very large number of votes, not unanimously, but beyond divisions, and I would like to thank you very much for that too. It is a project that the academic community has been waiting for for many years. It responds to the demands of the academic community. And this discussion we're having is actually about details, not beings, not the main things, but details that, of course, are also important. If the marshal would allow me, perhaps I would now refer to those issues that have already appeared in the discussion today. Name. In my opinion, there are no conclusive mathematical criteria or arguments that would prove that one name is certainly better than the other. The name "Polish Agency" could probably also be, but on the other hand it is argued that the names of the two existing grant agencies start with the word "national," and this was already established before the rule of law and justice. So this agency is undoubtedly symmetrical or complementary to the system of grant agencies. The statute will ensure that the name "Polish Agency" will appear in the international circulation, as was also mentioned here, and so... I maintain the position of the applicants so as not to change that name, especially since she... This may not be a strong argument, but a shortcut of this name, NAWA, has been taking a bit in our academic jargon for a year now. There were questions about the budget. This budget, as if the initial capital, is less than 40 million, the budget of the office of recognition, exchange and international cooperation, i.e. BUWiWM, together with a large part of the employees or some contribution, including mobility... The budget of the unexploited programme is in the special reserve of around 18 million a year for several years. Then we have the Minister's programmes, programmes aimed at internationalization In addition, this possibility is also enshrined in the Act, which will be able to operate EU programmes and we assume that in this perspective by 2023 at least 50 million will be obtained from the POWER programme, i.e. the Operational Programme, Knowledge, Education, Development. In addition, the Agency will also operate government scholarship programmes resulting from multiple intergovernmental agreements, as well as from obtaining the funds available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or other ministries for these purposes. It's also by law allowed. So we assume that this budget for the coming years will be about PLN 140 million. This is not some huge budget, but much larger than the previous one, so the funds for international cooperation dedicated to the academic community, the scientific community will be much more. Now it's a matter of internationalization. Means this word functions in English as internationalisation, Polish translation is maybe actually Not quite neat enough, but it's accepted and actually functioning in the language. And this particular factor... Now we are living in the times of rankings and in the times of permanent evaluation of scientific institutions and this factor, this parameter of internationalization is relatively well measurable compared to others. Because all I have to say is count the staff from abroad at a given university: how many professors in a given academic year come from a given country and how many from abroad? And in science. You can say stetha or sadly This internationalization is what counts, and science is international. And it is pointed out to us, Polish universities, Polish scientific institutions, that with us the number of foreign professors employed is significantly lower than with the best universities in the world, and the best universities in the world often have half-fifty, and sometimes even more people from abroad, bring good scientists from abroad. The second factor is the number of students from abroad. This number in Poland is increasing, at the moment there are less than 60 thousand students from abroad. The truth is that about 50% of them are young people from Ukraine, so the reason for such a number of students from abroad is not only that, so to speak, academic, but there are also other reasons, among others. such that it is the young people from Ukraine who are here in Poland. But it is the agency's task to ensure that the number of people who study in Poland or work at Polish universities, even temporarily as so-called. Visiting professors, it was bigger. Because these are also objective world meters, i.e. where there is more international exchange, there is simply a better level. And these universities or these institutions in international rankings in this competition are doing better. And even as regards the word "exchange" because Professor Seweryński also had reservations about this, that perhaps the word "cooperation" or another word would be better, the word "exchange" has its commercial connotation, but not only, because in the academic world the term "exchange" and its counterpart German austausch or English exchange means the element of exchange in an academic sense, i.e. exchange of thoughts, views and also exchange or mobility of people. There's another word for mobility, isn't there? So that this agency will also work to increase mobility. And the issue of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Well, there's no conclusive argument here. These arguments that I raised, Professor, Senator rapporteur. We wanted the council not to be too big and academic, and the Polish Academy of Sciences, one of the most important institutions in the landscape of Polish science, will indirectly be represented by a representative of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education. So, ladies and gentlemen, that's it for me. Thank you very much for this discussion, thank you for supporting this bill. I would ask or even appeal to adopt this bill, preferably without amendments. The amendments may have a certain value that clarifies certain things, but as for the substance we all agree here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to take a new thread, perhaps the only one that was discussed in the committee on which you did not take your position here. Namely, during the committee meeting I asked whether the liquidation of the Office for Recognition of Education and International Exchange and the creation of NAWA, of course with more prerogatives and with another location, would become sufficient, I would say, a vehicle which strengthens the objectives of both the office and NAWA. The targets remain largely the same here, but the new vehicle has been launched and autonomous. This, of course, offers much more opportunities, especially in terms of European measures. The thread that came forward and we discussed was about the prerogatives of the person who will guide NAWA. We were discussing whether it should be a person with a certain degree, exactly a doctorate, or whether it was enough for this person to be just a master. We thought it wouldn't have to be a doctorate. Although in some ways she will work with scientific authorities, she will probably work with the professorship. Although it may possibly reduce her rank or authority. Prove to us that a postulate of higher education than a master's degree is not so important with regard to the vehicle to be launched and its location internationally as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u55	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The first question concerned BUWIWM and NAWA. The intention is ambitious, namely that the Agency brings some added value, significant added value and, in a few years' time, contributes to increasing the level of international exchange or internationalisation of Polish higher education and Polish science. Additional instruments have been created for this purpose. The Agency shall have legal personality and may carry out its own activities and not be merely a contractor of tasks contracted directly by the Minister. It can operate in a system of international cooperation with sister agencies in other countries In general, there are such agencies in all European countries and they have the possibility to raise funds or be an operator of European funds as an entity, as an institution with legal personality. BUWiWM didn't have that personality. Finally, what's important is that there's a program board here that has the advantage of... We're assuming it's going to be a piece of advice about a certain academic value. As I understand it, in some parts it may consist of officials led there by the Ministry, but we assume that it will be essentially a professorial body, academically, drawing up strategic plans and evaluating the agency's activities. I don't want to declare much here. Will the created institution have only a new logo, and it will have what has been happening so far, or will it really be a new quality? We'll probably be answering that question for two or four years. I just want to stress that that's the assumption, and that's what it is... It is also stated in the Act that the agency's activities will be subject to evaluation, not only because of the amount of money spent, but also because of some better or worse, or more difficult measurable indicators describing the level of internationalisation of Polish science and higher education. The Director's qualifications. The Director is the head of the institution and in the management, operational sense, responsible for the implementation of contracts, also for the design of the programme to some extent... However, this is primarily a management function. The other side of the agency is the programming board. We are particularly looking forward to the involvement of some Council bureau or chairman of the Council, who will be a professor, so this merit of academic cooperation with academic institutions will largely be on the side of the President of the Programme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u57	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm taking the floor mostly for this. 'Cause I was also able to express my position as part of the report. In order to submit amendments and briefly discuss them, although there have already been many explanations in question, and to say that I simply did not have the opportunity to submit a minority proposal at the committee meeting, so that I am forced to continue to propose and justify these changes. As far as the position on the establishment of agencies and potential profits is concerned, there is no contradiction here. They're... It is very good that we at this level have and will have an agency for international cooperation as well as recognition of diplomas and education, as well as What was it about? mentioned The promotion and teaching of the Polish language. However, there is nothing to prevent what can be done from being improved. In fact, my amendments, which are nine, concern only four cases, as was the case at the committee meeting. Most of the amendments concern the change of name because it occurs in the title and in a number of places in the Act; that is to say, the change of the word "National" to "Poland." But I would like to say in advance that I am open and if there was a proposal on the committee that came from Professor Zarin, namely Polish National, which also... [[We don't have it.]] ...is, as far as I understand it, a proposal in the prepared statue... I would be completely open to making a modification if it meant a chance to adopt such an amendment. Another amendment concerns the requirement for the Director of the Agency to have a doctor's degree. In fact, in this case, the minister will decide, he can make high demands, different requirements. But if the qualifications required are defined, then the minimum is the doctorate. It should be mentioned. It wouldn't be worth giving any more, either, because it's in international exchange... Suffice it to say that you are a doctor because the professorship and second degree systems in different countries are very different. II degrees are possibly absent or hidden in some internal procedures. So that actually it would be wise to require a doctorate. And it would be desirable that formally, if the Minister wanted otherwise, he would, however, be obliged, so to speak, by law, to make the Director a doctor. Another amendment that I won't be... Oh, I'll say a few words about her, too. This is about adding the Polish Academy of Sciences to the composition of the council. I could've explained it a little more. Substantively on this subject I told you. The Polish Academy of Sciences has full authority, but if we look at the current composition of the council, it is 10 people, of which 6 are representatives of the Prime Minister and individual ministers mentioned names, i.e. there are 6 representatives of the political sphere, the government, that is what we would call it, and 4 representatives of academic institutions. So the addition of the Polish Academy of Sciences would not destroy a certain advantage of the government in this area. If that were the case, but I don't know if that's the case. Because the relationship would still be 6:5 when it comes to government representatives, if the Polish Academy of Sciences had yet to arrive. I think it's worth it. In general, it is important to wish this institution, which will undoubtedly be set up, good luck, because this is actually a step in the right direction, which should serve to develop international cooperation and actually such an easier discussion. There is one more thing to say in substance. It says in this law that the Agency is presenting its plans, so it has much more initiatives, especially on the basis of advice, than an office of recognition, which was actually only highly qualified, but a tool of the Minister. However, this agency has its subjectivity, even though it is very closely subject to the Minister. I think this is the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Of course, international activity in the academic community is very important. There is no doubt that knowledge and education have an international dimension. We have in this regard as a nation, as a state of hundreds of years of tradition, because we already know that at the Council of Constance our professors were very active, i.e. this activity has been noticed at least since the Krakow Academy. Therefore, this law is very important, necessary, you can even say that it is compatible, non-controversial about its essence. It provides tools for more efficient handling of the cases it is called for. The Ministry will set out some directions, there is a program board. Of course, the greatest doubt in the discussion raises the name. It happens so often. I must say that the name Nawa is pretty, refers to Łódź. Here we talked about the city of Łódź, but also about a boat that connects different continents, different places, so it is certainly also nice in this dimension. Well, some people think of it as a church, but it's also a nice comparison. We can even say that we have 3 such nicknames: NCN, NCBiR and the National Academic Exchange Agency. Of course, the Polish agency's password also has some advantages, but it seems that the current name is quite good. As regards the participation of a representative of the Polish Academy of Sciences in the Council Senator Wach also mentioned my person in the report. It was me, Mr. Senator, who was in favour of joining it, but I was talking more about repeating myself as members of the board of directors and the rectors' conference, that was rather the point. So that I am basically in favour of this composition actually supplementing with a representative of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Like that doctor's degree in the principal's case... Well, it's got its flaws and its advantages. We're getting used to it a little bit, and we want people with these grades to do research, be it in science or in the economy, and it's more about people who organize jobs. On the other hand, it is the head, and these matters concern the academic world; this is a justification for the requirement to have this degree. At the committee meeting, we also talked about changing the record on the Master's degree. There's some conceptual confusion here, Mr. Minister explained it at the committee meeting. The most important issue I wanted to raise is that the time for this law is inexorable, it is flowing, and we would like this law to enter into force as soon as possible. She's been being processed for a while, so that time's a little slippery. It's a vacation, it's the beginning of a new academic year... That is why I am proposing that this law be adopted without amendment. I must say that the additional reason why I am doing this is that the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, after examining all the amendments tabled, accepted only one amendment tabled by the Senator, Mr Sewerinski This amendment aimed to smooth out some language at the beginning of this law; we regret that our beautiful Polish language in public space is not as beautiful as we would like But the Professor has agreed to withdraw his amendment. That's why I'm making this bolder proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u61	Is there anyone else? [[No.]] Good. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Marek Martynowski Senator Kazimierz Wind made a similar request. And Senator Piotr Wach. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want... Minister, anything else? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: No.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We are returning, ladies and gentlemen, to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Rules of Finance for Science and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 558, the committee's report in print No 558 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Mr Kazimierz Wiatr, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting yesterday, the Commission adopted a law amending the Law on the principles of science financing and certain other laws, Senate printing No 558. The main purpose of this law is to exclude the application of the Code of Administrative Procedure in the procedures for granting the scientific category to scientific units and universities and in the proceedings conducted by the National Centre for Research and Development and the National Science Centre. The application of this code in this respect causes, so to speak, many difficulties, many flaws. That's why it was decided to shut it down. There are further changes, by the way. The Minister of Science may establish programmes and projects... A catalogue of circumstances has been extended to allow the Minister to change the amount of grants to maintain his research capacity, a way of publicising the Minister's decisions, a catalogue of tasks financed from the science budget has been modified, the Minister has been given the opportunity to appoint specialized or interdisciplinary teams for a limited period of time, etc. Amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. Five amendments were accepted as a result of the vote. This is largely an adjustment for ordering and editing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u63	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator. Minister of Science and Higher Education. Would the Minister like to speak? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may report to the Minister from the place of inquiry. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wach has volunteered to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u64	The law is important in the sense that it introduces changes and improvements to the system of funding science, as well as refers to the procedure for assigning categories to scientific entities, which is all very important. And you can't actually deny that. I am acting mainly because this proposed submission also contains questionable or criticised elements. And I'd like to talk about them. In general, as regards the tendency to improve and remove difficulties in awarding, moving and accounting for science-oriented funding, it must be recognised that this is the right thing to do. What raises doubts and what was raised in numerous opinions, that is, among others. the removal of certain provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure in respect of administrative decisions taken, first, by the Minister in the context of the broadcasting of scientific categories to individuals, and secondly, by the directors of national centres, i.e. the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development, financial decisions. During the committee meeting there was a discussion on this subject. The Minister defended this and justified it in such a way that the removal of the rules, in particular the article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 81, the Code of Administrative Procedure is justified because, although decisions are fully administrative and formal, the procedure is different and actually those decisions are taken on an expert basis. When applying, the scientific units immediately submit all their arguments. However, with a few minor exceptions, it appears that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure can be fully recognised are not applicable... I think that here as an example you can give a settlement. There is actually no room for it here, because these are actually two-state decisions: yes or yes, there are no half categories, there is no discussion that for such a range of research, yes, we will, but a little less money than you wanted, but do the same. Here it can be considered that the settlement would not really take place, there is no special place for it. However, as regards the general provisions of Article. 10, which concern inspection and knowledge of the progress of the detailed procedure, should apply. And this has been advocated by many institutions and in many opinions, and I actually agree with that. This is one of the criticisms. As for the second one, I am making amendments that have been modified in relation to what I proposed at the committee meeting. This concerns the time limits within which the relevant bodies make a decision after appeal. Actually, there are three such places in the bill. One place concerns the award of scientific categories to individuals, and there's a 2-month term... and here the minister also defended his position. There are two-month periods for categories and three-month periods for appeals regarding the financing of both funding agencies. And I'd say that defense was right. That is true in this respect, that all of this actually takes place within a single period of time. I mean, not necessarily in one time frame, but actually the possibility of spreading it over time is minimal. So that this is possibly a big flow, first, the conclusions, second, the decisions, and third, the possible appeals, and that is a problem. Therefore, having accepted the Minister's arguments, I have modified my proposal in this respect, which I put forward at the committee meeting, and I propose that, as regards the granting of the categories and decisions of the evaluation committee, do not change the deadline, leave the 2-month period. As regards the financial decisions of the two agencies, the 3-month time limit for the decision should also be converted into a 2-month period, which is longer than is normally the case in administrative proceedings. There would be some symmetry when it comes to all decisions. I think that this would be feasible and that then the appeal process for these agencies, with regard to these decisions and these appeals, would not be so extended over time. The third critical remark, which is perhaps the weakest, is that... The Act also clarifies the issue of the redemption of financial claims against grant recipients. and the possible distribution of these claims into instalments if such a decision were to be made. It is here that the limit of 150 thousand PLN is introduced arbitraryly. Below this amount or up to this amount, the decisions on redemptions, possibly on instalments, shall be taken by the directors of the NCN and the NCBR themselves. I don't want to go against that very strongly, but this line is completely arbitrary. And at the same time, at the committee meeting, you couldn't... I asked, but I didn't get the justification, e.g. justification for this type of case, how many cases are there, what is the percentage of cases such as high amounts relating to possible returns, defaults, etc. Therefore, the limit of 150 thousand PLN seems not only arbitrary, but not justified. I make no amendment here because I have no more knowledge than the Minister. But I must say that the Minister couldn't justify this kind of procedure here either, in my opinion. Perhaps the problem with the settlement of grants is relatively large and perhaps the amount of PLN 150 thousand in the light of grants and disputes is small. Perhaps it is. But if that's the case and how it really is, we don't really know yet. That's what my doubts are about. But I'm not making an amendment because I don't have any crystallized and legitimate positions here either. Therefore, I am only proposing amendments as regards the time limits for financial appeals in respect of the two science funding agencies mentioned above. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. It informs that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Wach. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the last remarks. There's gonna be a committee meeting... I cannot declare that at the committee meeting I will have the data that the professor, as well as the president, asked for, but I will try. If it is possible to obtain them during this day, I will present them at the committee meeting. The amount up to 150 thousand, which the Director may have, is indeed arbitrary. This can be said to some extent from the budgets available to these agencies. Right? The NCN has a budget of over a billion and the NCBiR, depending on a year, between 3 and 5 billion PLN, over 5 billion PLN. I'll try to justify this amount more tomorrow. Time limits. In the Act it is easy to write disciplinary terms, as we had examples in the Law on degrees and scientific title. There were records that the reviews were to be taken absolutely within three months. And what does that mean? Well, the paper, also the one on which the laws are written, is patient. I don't think the deadlines you're proposing would be met anyway. In turn, this exclusion of the application of the Code of Administrative Procedure stems from a certain practice, from some institutional experience. This is deregulation, simplification and we believe that it will ensure that these agencies function better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We've already considered point seven. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 554, and the report of the Commission in print No 554 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on the National Economy and the Committee on Budgets have examined the draft sent from the Sejm. It is a government submission, it concerns changes, as the marshal said, in the Personal Income Tax Act and corporate income tax. In particular, the proposal introduces 2 new solutions. The first solution is to increase investment, which in turn aims to implement a strategy for responsible development. The solution is that the possibility of one-off depreciation is introduced in the case of fixed assets of groups 3 and 8, i.e. machines and equipment. Value: 10,000 to 100,000. Importantly, there are two elements that make it easier. If an entrepreneur acquires a measure of less than 10,000, but buys more within a year, and their total value is more than 10,000, then it can depreciate it one at a time. And another ease. Until now, no depreciation could be made on the basis of the advances paid, only after the asset was entered in the records of fixed assets. Now these advances can also be cushioned. The Ministry has made estimates of the impact of these changes. The Ministry of Development believes that 154 thousand entrepreneurs will benefit from this solution, an additional 2 000 800 jobs will be created, and the average statistical relief for entrepreneurs will be 17.5 thousand a year. The second solution that brings this change concerns the sale of airline tickets. There's a recipe that's in its own way a dead recipe. He says that if a travel agency sells tickets on behalf of foreign airlines, either such an operator should hold and hold a certificate of airline residence or pay 10% flat-rate tax. And most of the time, he doesn't have a certificate like that, because it's hard to imagine large airlines issuing such certificates to small companies. This was due to the fact that the trader paid 10% flat-rate tax, but this in turn argued with the principle of avoiding double taxation. Therefore, in order to eliminate this situation, the collection of the flat-rate tax was excluded. The joint committees unanimously recommend adopting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u69	Excellent. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 556 and the report of the committee In print No 556 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration, as well as by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the revised law on the implementation of cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 The Joint Committee meeting took place on 11 July 2017. There was a discussion on the bill under review. Among the doubts and questions raised at the committee meeting... I would like to mention four fundamental issues that raised doubts and concerns of the senators involved in this discussion. The first issue raised at the meeting of the Joint Committees was the issue of including voivodships in the process of redistribution of funds under the 2014-2020 perspective, because the law on which we are proceeding provides that the monitoring committees will include the voivodships or their representatives who will participate in the process of redistribution of European money. It should be said, however, that, following explanations from the joint committees of Minister Jerzy Kwieciński, we know that the voice of the representative of the voivode will only be an optional voice and that the representative of the voivode will not participate in the decision-making process. This is important in the context of the achievements and evolution of the implementation of regional policy in Poland, which de facto started on 1 January 1999 with the creation of self-government voivodships, although we joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 and the experience of the strict sense of European intervention, we have had cohesion policy since then, perhaps a little earlier, since we developed the preliminary National Development Plan and then the National Development Plan for the perspective of 2004 But cohesion policy, as we discussed at the committee meeting, has undergone quite important evolution, evolution, which in my view is worthy of notice and which has led to the fact that European intervention is actually implemented in a rational and effective manner in Poland. The next thread we took in the debate at the joint committee meeting was the issue of territorial contracts. Namely, the idea was whether the amendments proposed in the Act would not lead to the fact that the already formulated territorial contracts and the investments contained therein would not be rejected by the current government and would not find financing, because a few of these projects, for example in the conceptual phase, are already projects prepared by the voivodship authorities and other entities which participate in their implementation. Some expenditures have also been made in this regard. Here, too, Minister Kwieciński, present at the committee meeting, announced that there are no risks to the investments entered into territorial contracts, and that the procedure or the provisions proposed in the act are only to bind public funds, including European ones, for the implementation of territorial contracts. The third thread that came up at the joint committee meeting was the issue of the implementation of financial engineering instruments. Questions have been raised regarding the exit strategy and the use of these measures by regional governments as managing bodies of 16 regional operational programmes. The question was asked, among others. whether these measures can continue to be the responsibility of the voivodship authorities, but naturally we understand and appreciate also those regulations which say that money will only be able to function in the sphere of their original destiny, i.e. de facto to support the development of both social and economic regions. As we know, in recent periods there has also been a temptation to include these measures in the state budget. After clarification by the representative of the competent minister, it appears that there are no risks to the renewable instruments. It is not enough that the Minister suggested that some of the voivodships also form the so-called "voivodships." development funds to strengthen the efforts of the regions to undertake modernisation and, of course, activating activities that determine social and economic development. In general, I would like to say that the majority of the two committees voted in favour of the law without amendments. However, I am obliged to draw your attention to the important fact that Senator Piotr Zientarski, present in the Chamber, has tabled a number of amendments on behalf of the minority, which I understand he will present in a moment. I believe that some of them should be subject to your assessment and possible reflection, but I am also counting on Minister Paul Ensign, who I am convinced of. It will be extremely competent to address the proposals for amendments to minorities. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's it. I would just like to stress that the Act provides a number of solutions to facilitate the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 perspective. They find both understanding and support among many of us, as well as opposition senators, because they will absolutely stimulate the process of investing European money in the socio-economic development of the Polish state. I haven't mentioned one more thread, and I'm going to refer to it here with the stubbornness of a maniac. That is, the institution that this law calls for, the institution of the Ombudsman of European funds. Of course, I will repeat what I said at the committee meeting. My fears... about ideas and intentions I am absolutely an ally of this solution. This is a very sensible, important, necessary solution, but I have a lot of doubts about the number of European funds spokespersons. We are aware that each managing authority will have such an ombudsman of European funds and I am thinking about the effectiveness of the functioning of these ombudsman. My doubts Only if you're not sure It calls for the ombudsman to be empowered in the structures of the departments, the managing authorities, and for them to be subject to the head of the department, the de facto director of the managing authority. I'm talking about this not to depreciate this idea in any way, because, as I said, it's worth noticing. I am talking about this in the context of increasing the efficiency of the European funds' mouths so that the solutions they propose are actually implemented. I would perhaps consider strengthening their role also in the context of the contested law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister answered the senators' questions in full during the committee meeting. As chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I was particularly interested in the issues of consultation with the regional government. Such consultations took place, but unfortunately So there's a minority request. The local authorities have expressed their negative views on these changes. I am thinking of the position of the Polish Provinces Union. And I have some kind of unsatisfiedness, because on the one hand, it is indeed what the rapporteur of the committee just said, also an experienced self-governmentman, and at the same time a Deputy Minister from issues related to regional development, also very close, who notes... I, too, as the applicant for minority applications, note that many very important, important issues have been introduced here. And I'm not criticizing this law en block! I'm saying this to make it clear But as a minority representative, I am unsatisfied in the sense that these cases which were presented in the Sejm by the Polish Provinces Union and were criticised, unfortunately, in the opinion of this association remained. They predicted, among others.: including the voivodship in the process related to the implementation of the RPO, participation in the designation process, possibility to participate as an observer in the project evaluation process, removal of the programming guidelines... Oh, this issue is very widely recognised by the Union of Voivodships, because... I'm not going to raise all the arguments. Because this elimination of the programming guidelines is very widely raised by this very Association of Voivodships. It is said that the deletion of the possibility for IZ RPO to issue programming guidelines will not facilitate or accelerate the implementation of projects. The granting of the IZ's ability to issue its own guidelines contributed to better capture the specificities of the RPO, among others. by regulating or clarifying issues that have not been spotted or omitted from the central level. The programming guidelines ensured uniformity and consistency of approaches to relevant issues. The elimination of the programming guidelines leads to an unjustified restriction of the freedom of IZ RPO in shaping the implementation of operational programmes. etc., etc. There are very many arguments that the Union of Voivodships has pointed out, recognising that they are still valid. Further: a broad definition and at the same time a lack of competence of the Ombudsman of European funds. This issue was also raised by the rapporteur of the majority, i.e. the issue of the Ombudsman of the Funds. Further: shortening the time limits for handling appeals, removing from territorial contracts information on the way in which projects are financed, under-preciseising the provisions on power with regard to funds from financial instruments while maintaining the role of Minister for Development in this area. On the basis of this position, I have prepared and tabled 20 amendments. Unfortunately, due to the adoption of the proposal for a law without amendments, there was no possibility at the committee meeting to analyse these individual... Perhaps some of them would have been withdrawn or modified, but unfortunately, without amendments to the bill, there was no such possibility and there was a practically automatic guillotine here. Therefore, these individual amendments could not be analysed individually. Hence my minority proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Paweł Ensign: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. Minister Paweł Chorąż, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u74	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the discussion much more balanced in the upper chamber than it had in the Sejm. With a brief reference to those issues that have been raised here, including minority proposals, I will not be able to talk about issues relating to the voivodship, with a territorial contract, as the rapporteur, Mr Waldemar Slugocki, said, because what I understand was explained during the committee meeting. A few words about minority proposals. First of all, it is difficult for me to accept the raised issue that the Act stands in... that it has not been consulted or is inadequately responding to the comments that were made during the consultation. I'd like to draw your attention... And it fell in the context of the local government. I would point out that this law, this amendment of the law, is primarily about improving the situation of beneficiaries. The local government is an important partner, an important partner, but not the only one. And if we say, for example. I'm talking about guidance issues, because it's very uplifted... I'm paying attention. I have also drawn attention to this in the lower House of Parliament. "We still have the Constitutional Court judgment of 2011, which states that the guidelines are designed to coordinate the work of the institutions and are not addressed to the beneficiaries. And if we're talking about reducing the number of guidelines, erase them at programme level. The same applies to regional and national programmes In fact, we are talking about the fact that the beneficiary has much less documents to read. This does not mean that the regional government loses, as a managing authority, the ability to regulate certain issues in its relations with the beneficiary. If we're talking about the legal certainty of someone who's signing a contract with a particular managing authority or intermediary... At the moment, we have a lot of these referencing clauses in the contract, which means we have contract terms, twenty-six paragraphs or more, plus a paragraph saying... And besides what's in the contract, and the obligation to carry out your project, according to the grant agreement, here's a list of documents you're supposed to know. The effect is that the beneficiary is obliged to familiarise himself with several hundred pages of various guidelines. So that, in my view, the abolition of the programming guidelines, first of all, implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it speaks of this... And we have cases where there are managing authorities in regions that have one or two intermediate institutions to coordinate. The question is: does the managing authority need to communicate with the two institutions under its control or with one institution of guidelines as an instrument necessary to coordinate its institutional system in the region? ♪ In my mind ♪ And this is also a proposal that has been addressed to all managing authorities, such an instrument is e.g. a detailed description of the priority axes where a number of conditions which are linked to the implementation of the programmes can be freely concluded. If we are talking about a spokesperson, I would also like to express my conviction that this is not a panacea for all the difficulties involved in implementing the programme. I'm rather concerned with the Ombudsman's institution... Indeed, the way in which it is performed depends very much on the managing authority. We have placed it at the level of managing authorities, also because the managing authority is really the only body that makes decisions in a given programme. We wanted the spokesperson to be an outsider. In the past, it has often been so that the beneficiary was in a dispute, for example. with project control persons. Before the decision to return the funds was made, there was a discussion, there was an adversarial procedure, and he raised some arguments. But it has happened that his, you could say, the complaint in the whole process was to the same people who were a party to the case. So we want to see someone from the outside who would really be an advisor to the marshal, to the voivodeship board or to the minister responsible for regional development, to the people running the institution, who could be like a third party, mainly at the pre-administrative stage. So that I also talked to the managing authorities, whether at national or regional level, about whether the Ombudsman of the European Funds would function as someone who was useful, who was needed. If we're talking about the question of voivodship about designation... I am merely pointing out that at the moment the designation is a task which is reserved for the Minister responsible for regional development. The provision we propose in terms of designation is about the possibility that the Minister responsible for Development may benefit from the involvement of the voivode in carrying out various tasks related to designation. Of course, this involvement of the voivod will depend on what kind of tasks we will be dealing with. If we have issues concerning e.g. Looking at projects in the event of irregularities, we will commission voivodeships, because it is actually difficult from Warsaw, given that there are thousands of projects, to check individual projects individually. I would also like to point out that the Minister responsible for regional development is still the person who, on the basis of the opinion of the voivode, will decide on matters relating to designation, nothing changes here. It's a contract issue. Right now, we're dealing with... I mean, it is not that at the moment we have clearly indicated sources of funding in the regional contracts of individual investments, because the current wording and annexes, signed not in this term, are talking about potential sources of funding. So these aren't sources that are clearly indicated, and it's not like we're erasing something here that's already certain. Finally, issues related to different procedures. Maybe I won't discuss all these amendments in detail. But what raises a lot of doubts and raises up deadlines in the appeal procedure. This is a good example of something that aroused very great emotions at the level of managing institutions. The initial proposal of the Ministry was to shorten the time limits for appeal in the joint procedure from 60 to 30 days. After consultation, also under the influence of discussions with the regions, this deadline was extended by half: up to 45 days. Well, that's hard to say. I have also been accused that the votes of the regions have not been taken into account at all. And the shortening itself is also the result of a different arrangement of the whole project selection procedure, which is also the content of the amendment. We are talking about giving up formal criteria, substantive criteria for one set of criteria. We are talking about the fact that the so-called "allowing the project to be evaluated" should be decided. formal conditions that relate to the form, mode and time, i.e. really to 3 very narrowly formulated preconditions. So this time is shrinking. Of course, the bill in some way... And I must say that perhaps the voice of managing authorities in the regions is also better heard because they are located outside the ministry. However, from all the experience we have so far, it appears that if we are talking about improving the situation of beneficiaries or shortening any deadlines, or reducing, for example. range... We really prohibit the request of certificates from institutions if they can check it out for themselves, and that is always, unfortunately, giving rise to the resistance of officials, because it is actually more convenient for them to tell the beneficiary to bring them a certificate; then they do not have to check it themselves. So this will raise concerns. Similar allegations against the law were made by managing authorities at national level. It's sad to put it this way, but when we correct the situation of one, for example. the situation of the beneficiaries, and when it means more effort on the part of the institutions, they will always necessarily contest it to a certain extent. However, I think we should also act more decisively. I think these are the most important threads you've ever taken... Maybe more financial instruments. As for the construction of the bill, there was a discussion as to whether it was the authorising officer or the property... First of all, financial regulations do not use the category of ownership. The alternative is, in fact, to make financial instruments the income of the state budget or the local government. We're talking about every subject. Whether it is the managing authority in the region or the authorising officer who has the resources at national level is required to place them in BGK. However, it may have them and allocate them to other return instruments after the expiry of time limits. So it can be said that the restriction does not concern the freedom to allocate or not allocate funds for some purpose. All we're talking about is... Because we want the funds not really to be converted into grants, but to continue to work as feedback instruments. And it can be said that this is a limitation for individual directors, whether regional or national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I only have one question. It concerns the designation process. I'm aware of the possibility of including voivodships... You also said that this is only an opportunity, not an inclusion. However, I am wondering, Minister, also referring to past experience, whether this potential integration of voivodships will not complicate the relationship in the effective implementation of individual operational programmes and will not create another actor who will want to, using this gap, over-create and influence the process of redistribution of European money. And it's not at all I want to reassure you all about the political question, because in a moment there will be local elections and Poles can decide differently So I do not politicise this situation at all, because the political situation will probably be dynamic and who knows how it will be shaped, of course also in the Polish Parliament. But no matter who it is... Because there are situations... After all, we know such situations, Minister, when the voivode and the marshals were of the same political option, and there was a background between them, say, to participate in the creation of politics in the region to some animosities. And that's what I'm afraid of. Aren't we creating a certain potential conflict field by adopting this regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u77	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u78	If we look at the functions associated with the designation... That is, such a crucial moment was the mere granting of the designation, which has already taken place in relation to all institutions that are institutions involved in cohesion policy in Poland, i.e. managing authorities and intermediate institutions. Right now, we're at a stage where from time to time... I associate 2 issues related to some discussion on whether the designation should or should not be suspended. The first concerned a non-functional IT subsystem in the region, a subsystem which did not communicate with the national system, which is one of the requirements for designation, because it must be the last, you can say, invoices in the system. That's where the data import was supposed to be. The second situation was related to the transfer outside the intermediary of the right to decide on projects. It was on a sub-regional level. There were, you can say, local assemblies that made decisions recommended projects, without being at all empowered in the system. If we're talking about the voivodeship, it could come first and foremost in a situation where we're going to have problems with a wider group of projects. It can be said, of course, that this will, to some extent, be important, because the results of the voivodeship's work will be submitted to the minister responsible for regional development and, on the basis of this opinion, will decide whether to suspend or not. However, I would very much like to stress that the withdrawal of designation is the last thing we want to avoid as much as possible. Compared to the situation related to the 2007-2013 perspective, however, it must be said that the role of the voivode is still smaller than that of the certifying authority in the perspective that ended, because as a certifying institution the voivode had, for example. the right to reject in general the certificate which was given to it by the managing authority in the region or to challenge some part of the expenditure. He here, you can say, has no prerogative to take decisions in individual cases. Rather, it looks at the whole system in which the implementation of the programme operates in the region and communicates primarily with the minister responsible for regional development, not with a partner at the level of the local government. So it can be said that of course this influence, the ability to influence or convey its opinions has it, but the way in which the relationship is arranged is different. This is not communication, as was the case between 2007 and 2013, with the competent local government of the voivodship, but it communicates with the minister responsible for regional development as the authority who is entitled to resolve issues related to the designation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u79	Thank you very much. Since there are no further questions, thank you very much to the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 555 and the report of the Commission In print No 555 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Print No 555 A was sent to the Committee on the Environment and to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration in order to consider the amendment of the Environmental Law. It was, you can say, the subject of discussion, debate, as well as decisions of the joint committees. It is a law that clarifies the environmental protection rules for the establishment and competence of the authorities of the voivodship environmental and water protection funds. These provisions aim to clarify that in a situation where failure to comply would occur Councils on the obligation to appoint or dismiss members of the regional boards of funds, these competences are taken over by the voivodship. If the management board of the voivodship was delayed with the appointment of the members of the voivodship board, these powers will be taken over by the voivodship and he will decide on the appointment of the members of the voivodship board. During the discussion various opinions, opinions of the senators, especially the opposition, were presented. It was said that the changes that have been recorded in this Act on the amendment of the Law on Environmental Protection of Regional Environmental Funds and Water Management lead to the centralization of activities, especially of the Ministry of the Environment, to the limitation of the influence of voivodship authorities on the management of public money by the voivodship environmental protection fund From the minister's side, we had an explanation that the voivodship funds are organisational units created by the voivodship government in order to carry out the tasks of the voivodship. Regional environmental funds therefore perform public tasks, but not the tasks of the local government. It was one of those strong, decisive explanations. Moreover, the voivodship funds do not in principle finance the tasks of their own voivodship self-government, but provide financial support for the implementation of additional projects to protect the environment and water management. Voivodship funds therefore have public funds to finance environmental protection and water management separate from public funds available to local authorities. Another explanation was that this amendment aims to ensure the uniform and efficient functioning of the voivodship funds and the proper implementation of their tasks. Proposals were tabled during the discussions at the joint committee meeting. One of the proposals was to reject the law, but it was not supported by a majority of the joint committees. There was also a proposal to accept the amendments. These amendments have been taken into account by the joint committees. As joint committees, we recommend that the bill be adopted together with the amendments. I think this proposal will be accepted by the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motion of the minority committee concerns the rejection of the amendment of the law. I'll briefly justify it. I think you'll remember the session. I think it was March or April on which we amended the Environmental Act. We were clear then that this was an attempt on the functioning of local governments, on the functioning of the regional government, because the local government is responsible for development, for strategy. The voivodship government knows what's going on in its territory, collects fees from this area and knows that it has, I don't know, a mine, a power plant, etc. He's well-informed. But you've changed the bill... We said it was a change of bad, bad, and it shouldn't be introduced. It turned out that it was mostly about staff, about filling up new supervisory boards. Their composition has been reduced to 5 people, and out of these 5 people the Marshals of the voivodship designate one, and the appointment of the rest is a matter of government. That's what we were talking about, which means we knew what it would look like after the change. The law entered into force and it turned out that 96 people of 16 voivodships times 4, because one member of the supervisory board is appointed by the marshal, and 16 voivodships times 2, because there are so many board members He's waiting for these positions to be taken over. And then there's the problem, the complication. This plan was to be implemented quickly, but it turned out that not everything could be predicted. We're dealing with a local legal person here. Yesterday we discussed the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Monument Preserver and other conclusions were drawn there. Although it is about the voivodship administration and the voivodship administration, it is the voivodship that designates the appropriate... I'm talking about the appointment of a voivodship antiquities conservator. And you voted today at the committee meeting that although it is a teamed administration, the voivode will appoint someone, that is to say, will appoint, but the general conservationist of the monuments will write to him who he is to appoint. Why isn't he calling himself, just a voivode? Let me give you an example of what this admission is like. Now it turns out that people who were about to take positions quickly can't do that. So what happened? Well, local governments of the voivodship I have before me one statute of the Voivodship Environmental Fund, which had to change the statutes. Instead of 7 members of the Supervisory Board there are 5, instead of more members of the Management Board there can be only 1 or 2 members. Changes have been made, but other amendments have been made to these statutes. I have one of the statutes in front of me, which says that the resolutions of the Council are taken at the sittings in an absolute vote by an absolute majority in the presence of at least 3 members, but there are also resolutions, e.g. on the approval of the Fund's action strategy, the list of priority actions It's a very important matter. The criterion for selecting priority projects or the rules for granting financial assistance, which are taken unanimously in the presence of a statutory composition. This also applies to the Management Board of the Wielkopolska Voivodship for the appointment or cancellation of members of the Management Board, the election of the Secretary of the Board, the determination of the remuneration rules for members of the Management Board of the Fund and the staff of the Fund's Office. Now it turns out that because the local government, the sejmik has a representative on the council, it is difficult to be unanimous. In other cases, this has been in place for a long time with regard to priority projects. This is a very important matter. What did it turn out to be? Turns out you have to do something about it so that the machine that moved... to close it up. And a group of Members, as always, prepared a bill, a parliamentary project. It's a short bill, it's all on one piece of paper. And what do we have here? In the event of a failure by the Regional Supervisory Board of the Fund to comply with the obligation referred to in paragraph 2. 2, Voivodeship is requested to appoint or revoke members of the Management Board of the Voivodeship Fund. And now, the council has not made a deal, there is no unanimity, so we're saving ourselves and we're saying that the voivode will make a proposal to the board. Next: within 14 days of the entry into force of the Act, the Supervisory Board of the Regional Environmental and Water Management Fund requests the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Environmental Protection Fund, and if it does not, the voivode requests it. And the voivodship board has to appoint members of the fund's management board again. He's got seven days, if I remember correctly. This is the law: if the management board of the voivodship does not appoint members of the management board of the voivodship fund within 7 days of service of the application, the selection of members of the management board of the voivodship environmental and water management fund shall be carried out Who? Voivodeship. So it's like this: the voivode makes an application if the council doesn't file it, then turns to the voivodship board, but the board doesn't want to appoint members. This will be the case, we can predict in advance that it will be so that the board will not wish to appoint them. The voivodship itself, a representative of government administration in the voivodship, chooses 7 days later. I'm a little surprised that here you think the voivode is okay and can appoint board members, and in case we were talking about the general conservator and the voivodship monument conservators, it wasn't trusting the voivodship. I don't know why. The general conservator of monuments can e.g. Want to appoint a regional monument conservator, because the voivode could cancel it. But maybe the voivode won't agree? Maybe there are problems. A voivodship monument conservator e.g. may have a decisive opinion on the protection zone, e.g. where to put a monument or some other object. Therefore, the General will be able to intervene immediately in such a situation. So another centralization, another submission. And we want to talk about self-government. But from all of this, you can see that the direction of the current government is to put everything under control of its actions. Therefore, the proposal, as far as the minority is concerned, is to reject this amendment, this amendment of the law, because it leads to what I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill's draft was filed... Oh, I'm sorry. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To both senators of the rapporteurs, I ask the question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the timetable of the Senate's work is also a good opportunity to show two different approaches in Poland to the implementation of public policies. On the one hand, we just had a debate on the implementation of cohesion policy in Poland in the years 2014-2020. And there are really solutions that are extremely desirable, which put public good at the first stage, the implementation of public investment in such a way as to maximise their efficiency, in order to implement those investments that are important from the point of view of local and regional communities. There, the public authority, the government, is able to build relations between the social partners involved in the implementation of cohesion policy in an extremely rational and responsible manner. Here, however, I do not understand completely what I do not understand, and my statement really does not have a political character, it is absolutely dictated only by the voivodeship and the government side, a bit of action is being taken in opposition to the provisions of the law on the local government of the voivodship and completely marginalizes the position of the government of the voivodship, which is, among other things, according to, if I remember correctly, I quote from memory, art. The 27th Regional Government Act of 5 June 1998 is responsible for the creation of a socio-economic strategy, for the implementation of economic policy, including environmental policy. These issues will be resolved forcefully and it is clear that the position of the management board of the voivodship, and thus the local government of the voivodship, is facaded. Why are we giving up our desire to build certain partnerships? Why do we not want to follow the example of solutions that are evidently seen in the implementation of cohesion policy? Why do we not want to build a partnership, regardless of who exercises power at national, national and regional level? [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the 60-second limit for the question.]] Let me finish: why do we have such different visions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u85	Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. We'll collect all the questions for Senator Flork. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u86	I have a question for Senator Flork. Senator, in one of your last sentences, you said that the government was going to take over everything completely. Now my question, which is this: is this a government presentation or a parliamentary presentation? The second question is, was the government... was the Prime Minister at the committee meeting and that's what she said? If not, on the basis of what do you, in presenting the committee's actions, make such opinions? Is this something that was at the committee meeting, or are you just expressing your own frustration?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u87	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for a minority representative. Is it not so that the draft law, at the moment actually the law which came out of the Sejm, is a kind of solution which is to prevent it from being the actual consequence of the non-execution of law, of not performing the obligations which the legislature imposed on the management boards of voivodships, or on the supervisory boards of funds? It's just an obstruction of these organs. And doesn't this amendment simply result from their non-legal actions? How do you assess the activities of the voivodship boards, possibly supervisory boards?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u89	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the answers. Who's first? Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u90	Senator Slugocki... Well, politics... what you quoted from the bill about the tasks of local government in the voivodship Policy on economic development, environmental protection That's the truth, and that's how it's supposed to be. That's why I'm surprised there's a reversal. In my opinion, there is a crawling change in the system at the moment, because this is the next stage when local governments are losing their influence in their area and in their area when it comes to functioning... It's hard for me to explain why law and justice... why you do that. Well, that's... I just think it's a political procedure to take over and decide about spending money in specific areas as well. As regards the environmental fund, please take into account that those fees that affect the areas concerned are from different places, depending on the damage and so on. And knowing on a given site people who are members of the supervisory board, people who are on the board, helps, it's much easier to separate, to have. There's no guarantee at the moment. The Minister says that there will also be people from the area, that it is not all... Well, about the direction of the cast of these posts and how it's going to look, we can discuss it, but we know the practice and we know what it looks like. Mr. Czerwiński's question was that the local government does not exercise the law imposed on... Well, I don't really understand that question. I happen to know the local government well, and I was also a councillor for four years of the sejm of the voivodship, I worked together, and I don't see here... There are environmental departments at the provincial office. I don't know the case, you'd have to give an example of the fact that the voivodship government doesn't fulfil its obligations. Senator Pekkis was asking about... Excuse me, can you just remind me?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u91	Yeah, yeah. First line. In one recent sentence, you said that in this way the Law and Justice Government was entirely deserving of this law. And now my question: was there a representative of the government at the committee meeting and, in particular, was there a prime minister who would have said this? And is this a government presentation or a parliamentary presentation? Because if it's the government, then it's not the MPs. And on the basis of what basis do you make such statements about the committee meeting, reporting on the committee meeting, because you are the rapporteur... [[No.]] Aren't you the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u92	No, no, I'm... It's okay. Thank you very much. Of course, I justify the motion for rejection. Yes, I'm the rapporteur for the minority. But this sentence that I've made justifies a motion to reject it. I agree with you. Of course, this is a parliamentary amendment. It is well known that, in general, we can find very little government projects during this term of office. Well, you know, for the record... If this were to be a government submission, it would obviously require a procedure, consultation, etc., and the state... Like I said, 96 people stand ready to take over these positions and you can't wait. Therefore, you often take shortcuts to avoid consultation and so on. And that's another example of taking a shortcut. And the fact that there's regular expropriation when it comes to the functioning of local governments is that we all see. Those who were self-governments and worked in local governments also know that, including those from Law and Justice. Well, I understand that that's the policy right now, and that's where you're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u94	Senator Slugocki was at the joint committee meeting, and we accepted the amendment on the Rule at the time. 400p. And among others. This article provides, as far as cohesion policy is concerned... I will quote the entire article: the Minister responsible for environmental affairs will determine, by regulation, the detailed mode of action of the regional authorities of the funds and the way in which powers are given, based on the need And here, what you are sure to be interested in is ensuring the uniform and efficient functioning of the voivodship funds and the proper performance of their tasks. I am convinced that the cohesion policy you were talking about will find its expression there. And the second theme. I feel like I'm listening to Senator Flork as well... [[These amendments don't make any sense.]] ...like we're misunderstood with some knowledge. Namely, the point is that the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, we have to accept it all, says the article. 400. They are not voivodship organizational units created by the local government. That's what we have to accept. Then we can build some logic around it, because then we have full information about the scope of the action. Yes, it is. It's also here that the senators in their questions raised The law is amended only in order to create clear, clear rules for the management of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u95	Thank you. Senator Sługocki asks further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm talking to Senator Pupa, the rapporteur of the majority. We didn't understand each other. I am well aware of the existence of an article that you have been polite to recall. All I did was use a metaphor, a comparison. The point was that cohesion policy treats voivodship authorities and the implementation law, the law on the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 perspective is different from what the Minister of the Environment proposes. And without a doubt these solutions, which will probably be voted out during the current Senate sitting, are an illustration of the fact that we are dealing with a centralising trend. I asked why there are areas in which this reflection and awareness are present, care for the good in the public sphere in Poland, and there are other areas, such as the environment, which we are talking about, in which such reflection is lacking and these problems are resolved in a forceful manner. I also understand Senator Czerwinski's statement, but I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we are one step further. What happened earlier, this earlier amendment spoiled this element, the need and willingness to build a certain cooperation between the local government of the voivodship level and the minister responsible for environmental affairs. [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] I'm almost done. And I think it's a better solution, and it's better to look for solutions that meet somewhere, and on the one hand they take into account the public interest, the national interest, and on the other hand... [[Please post a question mark.]] Yes, a question mark. ...Interests of the local government. Why are you ruining this country's work? Question mark and period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u97	Thank you. [[Dot under question, of course.]] Senator Włosowicz. [[I have to tell you, Senator...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, we'll collect all the questions. Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We are in the part where we ask questions, and I would like to refer to the statements of the rapporteur, Senator Flork, that we are currently dealing with a situation in which most of the proposals are parliamentary and not government projects, and that is why we are shortening the way. However, Senator, I think we're in the Senate... [[I'm sure we're in the Senate.]] There is another substantive discussion in the Senate. I don't think there's room for such cheap popularity. As for what you said, I will refer to the legal opinions that each of us has received and allow me to review them. First objective, opinion on the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act. [[Mr. Senator...]] On the page... [[Let me remind you of the time limit and ask for a question mark.]] Mr. Marshal, just 30 seconds. [[Mr. Marshal, half a minute.]] Mr. Marshal, 30 seconds. On page 8, the course of legislative work is described. This is the law that came from the government's submission. Another opinion Opinion on the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion. On page 12, we read that the bill was a government submission, etc. Only on the ninth or tenth project does it say that this is a parliamentary presentation... [[Mr. Senator...]] So that most of the projects are the result of our government's work and I would ask that we speak hard about the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u99	You didn't end the question mark. [[Like I said, it wasn't supposed to be a question. It was supposed to be a statement that the facts were different than what the senator said.]] Senator Probie, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u100	I'm not starting or ending a question mark. I have a point on Senator Flork's statement. You were kind to say in the context of assessing the functioning of local governments that everyone knows that. That's what you said. Well, I declare that I don't know that. Thank you. [[If I may answer that question, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u101	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u102	...on Senator Slugocki's question... The senator gave his opinion and ended with the question of why we are destroying our past achievements. Mr. Senator, I'll be brief. We do not destroy, we build, and this building is expressed among others. In that record I read earlier. This is a change in order to ensure uniform and smooth operation of voivodship environmental funds. That's what it's all about. Of course, you may disagree with that, because you are in opposition and you have a different view of it. You can insist on your sentence and claim that we're destroying it. You know, I'd like to convince you, but if I could convince you, you'd sign up for the PiS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u103	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u104	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator... Włosowicz asked me... Senator, if you want to lie about reality, you can lie about reality, but, you know, we're all smiling at it, and so are your friends. [[And the senator has a selective memory.]] Well, I'm offering to do that. I just don't know if I can propose it now, because I don't know what it looks like formally, so... I'm gonna ask your marshal to introduce how many laws we've adopted in this term of office were from the government's submission and from the parliamentary one. And in this, Mr. Senator, you'll find the answer. I don't have any doubts about that, and I'm sure no one in this room except you doesn't have those doubts. That's what I'm applying for. I don't know if I can file it right now, possibly in writing, Mr. Marshal... [[I don't think that's a formal conclusion, but you can ask the law firm that question in writing.]] [[Maybe in a statement...]] Oh, that's right. Then I'm gonna ask the law firm this question in writing, Senator, and then I'm gonna answer you. Mr. Probier said that not everyone knows... I think you're in contact with your uncles, mayors, marshals of the voivodships. We're all running senator offices, and we have that kind of contact. I know what is the position of local governments in the bill that has been amended before, and what their attitude towards this is. That's why I said we all know, only some of you pretend they don't know what's going on. And what's really going on here is that we all know. Thank you. [[I don't know.]] [[If you'd just repeat it, sir, because I don't really understand...]] [[Well, maybe we'd have to go to some school...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u105	Are there any more questions? Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to add my question to the minority representative, Senator Flork. You said you hadn't heard of any attempts by the voivodship boards not to fulfil their duties. So I quote for today's Lodz Journal: the marshals refused to appoint a president and vice-president of the environmental fund; the Polish and PSL-controlled Sejmik goes to court again with the voivode from giving PiS. This is the news from today, the latest. The question has a slightly different character. You often boast here that you were a voivode, that you knew the law. Can an article be applied to such seymists. 84, whose paragraph. 1 reads: in the event of repeated violations by the Sejm of the voivodship of the constitution or laws, the Sejm may, at the request of the Council of Ministers, resolve by resolution the sejm of the voivodship, etc.? What do you say? [[I would have solved it, and I was a voivode too, Mr. Wojewodo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u107	First of all, Mr. Senator, I've never bragged that I've been a voivode for eight years. I performed my duties as a government representative in the field and generally did not deal with politics, but with these duties. As a result, I have a lot of experience in the functioning of the local government, as well as in contacts with local governments. And since I was also councillor of the city council and councillor of the regional government, I have a lot of experience and I know that, from the kitchen, how it works. That's why my protest yesterday about the preservation of the monuments... Well, that's absurd. What is a complex administration, and what is it? We're perverting a lot of things here right now. There were a lot of things I've been dealing with and talking about, and that's because of the knowledge I've acquired over the years. As for the fact that the voivodship boards have refused to appoint a board of funds... Well, most of them have changed their statutes because the local authorities know very well that this is an attack on environmental funds. I have therefore quoted you from one of the sections of the environmental fund statute and there are certain provisions. That's why local governments tried to defend themselves. I'm sure they won't defend themselves for long, because you're gonna do yours anyway. They moved it on time... After all, this bill would probably have come into force a month ago and we would have changed boards by now. Regional governments defend themselves, I don't know, probably in 13 voivodships, from what I've heard, they change their statutes, but they do it consciously. They wouldn't have done it if it wasn't for that bill that was approved by the Sejm and the Senate, if it wasn't for the resolution that we had... which you made, because not by our votes, probably two months ago. And now it turns out that we need to rewrite... And why are you surprised? There's no wonder. Self-government defends itself because they want to influence. They are responsible for development, they are responsible for what Senator Sługock has quoted you here, so I will not repeat it. And that's why they're defending themselves. It is not abnormal that such action occurs on their part. And now, of course... If you want to go so far as to break the constitution, then in this case... You know, so many times... In my opinion, what happened to the Constitutional Tribunal and what is happening right now... We're having a hard time saying anything about breaking the constitution right now, because the constitution is being violated almost on... [[Set it up, set it up. There's also the concept of law...]] Right. [[The Constitution is also a law.]] Well, that's what it comes down to, so... [[It has a different status than the ordinary bill.]] [[It's true.]] [[A voice from the room: Well, I'd ask for an answer.]] [[Then answer me, Mr. Senator, for a specific answer, how can you judge...]] Of course, we can go in that direction, that the Prime Minister... There's gonna be a RIO bill now, right? The president was the only one who vetoed it. And you remember what I said here about the RIO bill that I brought up? And it turns out that the President has now vetoed this bill. And that's what the RIO Act said, right? That if he didn't keep it and all that, then the local government... you can cancel the president, the uncle... [[It's a specific question.]] ...the mayor, you can cancel the commune council, you can cancel the governor's sejm. You know, we can argue for a long time, but I don't think that makes much sense. Well, as far as these grounds are concerned, that is obviously not possible. My opinion is that there is no basis for calling off the regional government because it changed the statute and wrote that there should be unanimity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u108	Before I give the floor to Senator Dobrzyński, I would like to remind you that we are at eleventh, eleventh, twenty-one, and my intuition tells me that the agenda will be further extended. So I'm sure we'll be sitting on Saturday. As I understand it, we're still due on Sunday... [[Voice from the room: 10th.]] Oh, ten... [[Saturday?]] [[Sunday is a holy day.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we're ready.]] Monday, then. Please, Senator Dobrzyński... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the senator of the minority proposals who questions the proposal to leave the deadlock when the local authorities in the statutes recorded unanimity or uniformity in the decision to appoint a president. What would you suggest to the Świętokrzyskie local government of the voivodship when the president of the Regional Environmental and Water Management Fund arrested by the Central Anti-corruption Office had to be suspended in the performance of his duties, had a passport arrested, had to lodge bail and could not carry out his duties? Let me remind you, this President is a former Member of the Polish People's Party, who received a recommendation for the president of the voivodship fund in Świętokrzyskie Voivodship during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL. What kind of way out of this situation would you suggest?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u110	Mr. Senator Rusiecki, when it comes to the local government, he had the right to declare unanimity in the statutes. It's not just... I've given examples that this isn't just about this case, it's about the board, but there's also some, many other points that talk about it... I will not repeat and quote this to you, but this is about the strategy of the fund, the list of priority projects, the selection criteria, etc. etc. And it's taken unanimously. That's what the board of directors said, and they had every right to do it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now... how do we get out of the deadlock? You asked me that question. It's your business to get out of the deadlock. You shouldn't have taken... [[Voice from the room: You shouldn't have stopped...]] [[Calm down, please.]] No, no, I'm sorry, but... [[Calm down, please!]] Excuse me, but I'm giving my opinion right now that... Because you've decided... Well, we don't... The Senate approved it, the Sejm. And signatures... Okay, here's the deal, I'm just saying with your voices... Because when we were passing, we were talking, we were talking, like this... You can listen to what I said from that bleacher. And I told you what a bad, bad bill would cause a mess, and I asked why you're taking over... why the minister, through his representatives, is supposed to manage funds in different voivodships, why you're changing it. We talked about it, we discussed it. But no, that's how you wanted it, you passed the wrong bill, and now you resent me. The senator resents me and asks me how to get out of this impasse. Well, you're getting out of this deadlock... You want to get out of this deadlock, but how? Well... [[Voice from the room: Effectively.]] Oh, yeah, effective. But if that's how we want to act, to make laws, then I don't know why we're here. After all, it is possible to accept something in advance, one law to write, according to which in all cases you have the right to manage all companies, all companies... But this isn't the way. And what you gave me, that's. As for the example of one of the presidents in the provincial fund... Well, such examples, CEOs, etc. 'Cause we're not just talking about the president of the environmental fund, we're talking about the presidents of other companies. In Poland we have plenty. We can't be selective about this, which means it turns out here that one president probably... I don't know, I don't know exactly... But that's what the D.A.'s office is for, and that's what the police are for, and that's what the service is for. If someone breaks the law, they have to suffer the consequences. And that's it. So if such cases occur, it doesn't matter whether someone is president or councilman or other citizen of the Republic of Poland, everyone is subject to laws and laws in this country, so if he violates the law, then he must suffer consequences for it. But let's wait, since judging is a court, let's not convict someone if the sentence isn't valid, and let's not exonerate someone if it turns out that the final judgment isn't there yet, as in the examples we had. So that when it comes to these adoption cases and so on, it's like what a seymist does to defend himself, it does in the light of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u111	Mr. Senator Pekkis. I'll just remind you that according to the regulations, you can ask a question for a minute... [[Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal, I just wanted to return...]] ...and Senator Florek can say any amount of time. [[Of course I do. Mr. Marshal, I'm just paying attention to one thing...]] How much more time do we have? It's 12:00. And we still have a few dozen hours to go. [[Yes, I understand...]] I want you to know that. [[But, Mr. Marshal, I draw attention to the fact that...]] You're welcome, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u112	In his speech, Senator Florek did not speak in one aspect of this bill, which we are now talking about. That's it, he had... [[But it's the rules, Mr. Senator. I think the next few questions will give Senator Flork an opportunity to talk more about this bill...]] So it's okay to... I understand, but he wasn't talking about the bill we're talking about. Come on, gentlemen, let's respect each other. I understand your frustration with the current political situation, but let's respect each other. This is... You know, you didn't answer any... you didn't talk about the contents of the bill we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u113	Yes. Mr. Senator, as to frustration, we can discuss this for a long time. But these changes that you're making, these parliamentary changes, unprepared... You're doing it fast, that's what happens. And I'm beginning to wonder if you can rule for more than two years. Yeah, because in the way you're doing it... what you're doing right now... I don't know what that's gonna be like. Luckily, the fuel bill was a little off in time and so on, but think about it. Mr. Senator, what's unclear about this resolution? You're asking me, but I was telling you what it was about. If the Council does not call He's not gonna call, because he's got... In some voivodship, I think she even appointed a board of directors, because it's not like in all voivodships... But if it doesn't, it's the procedure that's written on this page. She's understandable and simple, so I don't know what you're asking me. Just read it. It's very clear what you're doing in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u114	Thank you very much... And you're Senator Pup. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the joint committees, I would like to explain that... I would not like to leave such a picture after this round of questions that local governments can take democratic action by adopting statutes that block the implementation of a law adopted by Parliament, and Parliament has no right That was the sound of it. It is in the interests of the governing coalition that it breaks the constitutions to take democratic action, because when Parliament takes democratic action, that is to say, it prepares a law that is in the interests of the governing coalition. We can't take that logic. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think we should approach this rationally so that we do not come to any conflicting conclusions that we often hear from the opposition in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u116	Thank you. Of course, we have more questions. This time on the Platform side. You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the senator of the rapporteur a question, if I may. [[Which one?]] In this act, on the one hand, you take over the competences of local governments of the voivodships. I'm saying this from an autopsy as former vice-president of the Lubuskie Sejm On the other hand, you leave the responsibility of these local governments to act... My question is: what instruments will the marshal or the board have to carry out the tasks set out in this Act? What competences and instruments will he have for the voivodship environmental funds? That's the question I'm asking as a former self-government officer. I'm asking the Senator rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u118	20 minutes ago, it seemed like we were gonna be done, and the debate started. Senator Shark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's okay, democracy. [[Thank you, my friends at the PiS...]] Mr Senator, rapporteur. Zdzisław, it's for you. Tell me, because there's quite a lot of discussion on this, if the seymies had the right... It is about the supervisory board and the election of new presidents of voivodship environmental funds. Tell me if the supervisory boards had the right to make a decision. Is it against the law or is it against the law? That's the whole, that's 100%. The board of directors... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u120	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u121	We have answered these questions before, but we will be happy to answer them again. I'll start with the senator's question. Of course, the local authorities could have adopted such resolutions concerning the unanimous decision on the selection of the management boards of the regional environmental funds... They had the opportunity. Same law. I was just saying it. It has a Polish parliament, the Sejm, the Senate, and can adopt a law amending what local governments have invented, blocking the decision of the Polish parliament. That's the answer to your question. Mr. Komarnicki drew attention to what we have already discussed here. In my report, I explained that in accordance with Article. 400. 3 voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management are not voivodship organizational units created by the local government in order to perform the tasks of the voivodship. I read it carefully: they are not the authorities of the local government. And another explanation: the voivodship funds do not in principle finance the tasks of their own voivodship self-governments, but provide financial support for the implementation of additional projects aimed at protecting the environment and water management, possibly due to voivodship tasks, but not only. Let me quote you one more thing. To the article. 400p we have adopted an amendment that says that the Minister responsible for Environment will prepare a regulation Okay, I'm gonna cut it down here. In order to ensure the uniform and efficient functioning of the voivodship funds and the proper implementation of their tasks. I think you'll be satisfied with the senator's answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u122	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[There isn't.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] No. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[I'm checking in.]] You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd say we're playing tag if it was just such a fun thing if it wasn't a serious thing, but the voivodship environmental funds and what they're going to do with them, which means taking away these few billion local government voivodships, isn't fun. A month ago, we passed your bill... I mean, you guys. You passed your law, which was formally a parliamentary initiative, and of course it was written by the government, by your ministry, Minister. If not, deny it. I understand that you do not wish to speak on this change, because this change is also parliamentary and therefore you have nothing to say. But this is another situation, that a month and a half after the bill made in this way, after the so-called. Members' bill, you're correcting it. You are improving because the local authorities, according to law, have introduced the principle that there must be unanimity on the board of directors, and they have one representative there. Just one representative! And right now you've decided to deprive the real power of the latter, one representative of the local government. This is unacceptable. When the bill comes, the Ministry should propose it in its entirety, not play tags. Block here, block in a moment in another place. Just in case, you're putting in place one of the only statutes that the minister imposes, which means this is where you're secured. After all, the situation was similar with the Constitutional Tribunal. There were 8 amendments because it turned out that the Court was defending itself, the Court ruled. It had to be another revision. Another and the last, curial introduction. The modifications you've made, this Court has killed. This is a situation with which I strongly disagree not only on substantive but also on formal grounds. The Senate is not a voting machine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u124	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, there is not much to add in this matter that we are discussing. I just want to use some approximation. I draw attention to the fact that in our local governments, not only voivodships, but also locals, there are people who know this law very well and simply outsmarted the government of PiS in some matter. They took advantage of the fact that they could change their statute. It is true, because the statute is the matter for the local government to accept, as well as the local government. And what happened? Which is the result of this so-called. Bypassing or finding a way out? Can I be more specific? That's what I call outsmarting you. It's just that. Well, there is an equilibristical way of dealing with the election of the board members. If the council doesn't set up, it won't indicate, and there won't be a board, then it'll point to the voivode. If it doesn't work again, then the voivode will determine himself. This is a several-step procedure. Wasn't it easier to say right away: we're taking all of this away from you and the voivode is going to appoint a board or the minister is going to direct the board? And you're looking for a reason that the voivodship authorities didn't work well. These self-governments worked well because they are at source and know what is really needed. And behind those decisions that the voivod will make or the man from the anointing of the voivode or the minister... He'll be a politician and decide who to give the good money to and who not to give that money to. This isn't the way. This isn't the way to self-government you want to brag about. It is simply the local government and the local government that is our mother, who is closest to us and with whom we should cooperate, we should not exterminate her and take her politically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u126	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be brief. I would also like to draw attention to the principle known to all of you that normative acts enter into force 14 days after the announcement. In duly justified cases, they may enter within a shorter period of time. And the question is, what's the legitimate case, that those 14 days shouldn't be. Let me rephrase that. 16 voivodships times 4 members of the council that's 80... no, sorry, 16 times 4 that's gonna be... [[Voice from the room: 64.]] ...64. And boards that are going to be double, because I think nonsense is single, that's 32. That's 96 people. And that's the justification of the bill and that there aren't 14 days. We did not hear that at the Senate meeting or at the committee meeting. There's no justification. Why? But I'm telling you what the reason is. It's the only way to explain it. 'Cause if it wasn't, it'd be 14 days. Now, once again, I want to go back, briefly, without discussing other subjects, to the role of the voivode in all of this. This is a curiasal matter, for there was not yet a model in any law, such an example that, when the council does not set up, a request for advice would be made by the voivode. Why? How? Etc. That's what you wrote down. Designers, that is, Members, because this is a draft parliamentary bill. So there's a voivode and she's putting it on the board. The point is to make sure the board calls it. And what happens if the board doesn't? Because he won't. I am convinced that if the voivode makes these proposals, the board will defend itself. The state has now led to a war between voivodships and, therefore, local governments will defend themselves. Maybe two local governments in Poland have already called. I don't know exactly what the situation is, but they're gonna defend themselves and they're not gonna call. That is why you have already predicted this next step, although life is very rich and it may turn out that in a moment there will be a gateway here and we will meet again. Because if that's how you make resolutions like that, that's what it looks like. Now what happened? And now another part of the voivodeship. We're going into some voivodship, government administration... Where's the self-government? Because again, if something's wrong, you're bringing in the voivode. Well, what's that? The governor will set up a board of directors, as requested, of course... the board will set up as requested by the voivode, because there is no other option, because it will have to do so. And it's just a matter of time. I'm showing this crazy example of how these mechanisms, these blocks are arranged one by one. Well, there's never been a bill like this before. I think law students can read, think about how to make laws, what are methods and ways to circumvent the law, how to use the possibilities that the senator here tells me. 96 people, as I recall, could have taken positions as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning we have said that this is a bad, bad bill, we have said not to vote on it, we would be much further away... Local government are a local government person, Mr. Senator, therefore... Of course, it is important to understand the tasks of a local legal person. They carry out tasks that are important for the voivodship, therefore they are a local government legal person. That is why we should all support these actions. And these actions that have been taken, well, they're gonna lead to the fact that after these boards act, once the board acts, it's not gonna end with this... Because the consequences of what you've done right now will be in a few months, six months from now, a year from now. Well, that's the will of the rulers, they can even determine that 2+2 isn't 4 and 5, because that's what you can do. But that's the will of the legislator, and he can do it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u128	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that the weakening of the role of self-government is so delicate. Make a good bill, in which you will write: the local government in Poland does not function. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe I encourage you unnecessarily because you may have such a plan, but I say this as a person who has worked in local governments for 20 years, and I do not believe that in your hearts and minds there is such an idea that something called the project of Polish local governments... that in your strategy of action is the destruction of this Polish acquis. After all, all these administrative activities... and there is proof of the scientific work in which it is said: the more countries in municipal functions, the worse it is. And that's not what the Civic Platform theorists say, that's what science from Europe says. And I address it to my friends in Law and Justice: Don't be afraid... If you are ordered to destroy Polish local governments, have the courage, like this young man, and say no to the wrong bill. I don't believe that you want to destroy what is the work of Poland. The fact that Poland looks what it looks like today is not due to the Polish parliament or the Polish government, whether under the sign of the Platform or the Law and Justice. It is largely thanks to Poles, local governments and entrepreneurs. The less we interfere as the wisest In quotation marks People of the world, the better it is, including better for self-government. Remember that, folks. Do not destroy what is good for Poland. Now the question that Senator Florek was talking about here as an experienced voivode. Isn't it just so human for you to be ashamed to make law in the Polish Senate? After all, when I meet people, they knock on the head, they say, "Well, Leszek, have you lost your mind?" It's not even the law in the municipality. Well, if I came in as mayor with a proposal, day by day, minute by minute, and then I'd be on the wheelbarrow, and I'd be on the wheelbarrow. Aren't you ashamed to make law in Poland? Well, have some courage like that young man in your group who said no. This nonsense must be said no. That's why I'm asking you to love local governments. And you guys are weakening them all the time. If you have a strategy that Poland is to be ruled by Poland from Warsaw, say it loudly, not so much cut off, cut off, cut off... And I want to assure you that you will not create such a law in Poland, which would be so perfect that you already have all the means so worked out that Polish local governments will not find a solution. That's not gonna happen. Therefore, it is better to strengthen voivodships, strengthen voivodships, strengthen local governments in general, starting with education... And we are one of the few countries who dream of a good education. The curator will approve the organizational project, and now the voivodeship will select the management of the voivodship fund. Well, do it so that Novgorod will choose it. Why would a voivode do that? Fewer people will participate in the decision-making process. The decree will come, 16 names will be mentioned in the decree, chiefs of 16 voivodships, you will get... [[Are you proposing such an amendment, Senator?]] Mr. Marshal, not yet, I'm in the middle of a discussion right now, but I'm close to that proposal. Especially since I'm going to say this by reading your marshal's openness... Because normally, with another marshal, I wouldn't dare say that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[With your Marshal's openness, the Platform will change...]] But knowing your openness and taking into account Mr. Marshal's hint, I'll think about it. I'll have five more minutes. After asking your marshal, I realized it was time to move towards the end of my speech. I just want to say... That's also a hint, maybe not yet announced... [[You've got five more minutes.]] Oh, no, that's all I wanted to say. What Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said here in the discussion and what I would like to tell you... Perhaps it will be easier to do so in Poland that you will choose the local government of the voivodship. Well, why the election? Let the voivodship board be elected by you... [[Sure!]] ...less expensive, faster, easier, easier to read, no problems. Why all the trouble, the election, the insubordinate voivodship board... You came up with one bill to weaken them, they found a solution. Yeah, what's with the pussy? The Management Board of the voivodship is appointed by Nowogrodzka. That's it. And this will be the best solution that will show your true face. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say this: Dear people, do not centralize Poland, love local governments, do not weaken them, because in their development there is the development of local civic places throughout Poland. The less Warsaw in the province, the better. And please, my dears, remember that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many words were made by representatives of the Civic Platform Club. I absolutely subscribe to all those sentences. I don't think it's necessary to convince here, in this House, what the role of self-government is. It was us who, when we had a recent 25th anniversary of local governments, we were boasting, we were rightly proud that this initiative of local government was born in this House, that it was prepared by the senators who continued this work of self-government. And just as the speech was here, it was the local government that contributed in an important way to the success, also economic, of our country. And step by step, step by step, is limited by local governments using methods... These aren't methods anymore, they're already some kind of legal tricks or playing tricks. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because it's not serious lawmaking. After all, every serious legislator must foresee the consequences that result from a specific submission. It's totally... That's the basis. the creation of law. You just have to predict... That's the old rule: make the law. Not for yourself, but like you're in opposition. That's the way to think. The worst, extreme situations are created by law. And we are indeed the cause of ridicule from the local government, which applies the law, because it has the ability to shape this law through... Why? Because here's the game of environmental fund status. If his status is a local legal person, then I guess it's clear to everyone that this local government should have some Not even any, but a decisive, just real impact on this unit. Otherwise, we have another lie. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're improving the Constitutional Tribunal by actually disassembling it... [[Yeah, you guys disassembled it.]] Of course, yes, yes, of course... [[So what are we talking about?]] Yeah, that's right, that's it. understanding the essence of things. Except that's not what I say, because I'm a little constitutionalist, that's what authority says, Mr. Senator. And I think that's what we should be... Forget about politicians or politicians, let's leave it alone for people like Mr.Piotrowicz, the head of party training, who is the face of these changes in the Court, if you have touched on this subject... [[You're the one who touched it, Senator. You touched it.]] No, no, no. And that's why... I'm showing some analogys. If we leave the legal status, we say it's a local legal person, then, ladies and gentlemen... and we have a marshal's representative who has nothing to say, then I ask you: what is the legal structure? What is she supposed to do? [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's what I said at the committee meeting. If so, let's call a thing by name, and let's not create an illusion, let's not create an illusion of truth. And that's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u132	Thank you, Senator. Senator Pup's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Listening to this discussion, which my esteemed previous speakers started, one can be frightened, one can somehow get the impression that something is really wrong in Poland, and some drama suddenly arose in front of the voivodship environmental funds, because in performing its functions, the Polish state, the Polish government, Polish parliamentarians elected in democratic elections are generally destroying the economy. But here is what picture appears in the Polish media, what picture also appears in the media, which are not conducive to the government? Namely, the economy is developing. The economy is developing well, unemployment is falling, investments are being made at a high level. There's a budget surplus, which hasn't happened so far. And now, all of a sudden, on this background, we have regional environmental funds that are supposedly being destroyed. I want to assure the honourable senators of the Civic Platform that these actions, which have been taken by the government, by Members of Parliament, serve the Republic of Poland, serve the Polish citizens. Perhaps they will not serve particular political groups, interest groups, but certainly, I am convinced, they will serve citizens, local governments, will contribute to the fact that Poland, local Poland will be beautiful over time. With concern in one of the speeches I heard words about outsmarting, about the fact that the regional governments were able to outsmart the government, were able to outsmart the Polish Parliament and adopted statutes that practically blocked the functioning of the law adopted in April. Ladies and gentlemen, I avoid the words "cunning" and "cunning," I avoid such words because it is not for building, it is not for development. It serves practically the game, it serves breaking, it serves, you can say... Such action is hostile to Poland. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see cooperation between local governments working with the government, so that the government can work with the local government, because that is how it should be and this is what it looks like. Then development will take place and then we will be able to talk about even greater development of the Republic. Many people were upset that something amazing happened at the time of the adoption of this law, at the time of the adoption of the provisions on changes in voivodship environmental funds. Ladies and gentlemen, those who were so surprised are, as I believe, actually I am convinced that they have little parliamentary experience. In view of the fact that I have been a senator for the tenth year now, here in this Chamber I have observed various kinds of actions that have led to a reduction in the role of local governments, especially when it comes to it, it can be said about hiding public debt, about not showing that this public debt, the deficit of the state budget is so large. Therefore, responsibility had to be given to the public debt and to the local government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a little restraint, I propose that we do not use such words, do not say that the Senate is a voting machine. Each of the senators was elected in a sovereign way in a one-mandate electoral district and each of the senators was given a mandate to perform his or her function, his or her own senatorship independently. And I wish each of you that the office of the senator is held independently, responsible, with a view to the development of Poland. I didn't want to end it like this, but I think I'm gonna end it like this. I understand why some of you are nervous, especially from the Civic Platform, about the fact that there are provisions here that change the procedure for the appointment of the presidents of the regional boards of environmental funds. I think I understand why you're nervous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u134	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Augustine. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd have a corrigendum.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u135	Senator Pupa didn't exactly recall my words, and I think he misunderstood me, too. [[What didn't I understand?]] I told you the Senate couldn't be a voting machine. [[The senator didn't quote you.]] [[I wasn't referring to the senator's words, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u136	Gentlemen, the senators have cleared up the misunderstandings. Senator Augustine has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! State Guests from the Ministry! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law is important and emotional not only because it illustrates the general approach of Law and Justice to this great achievement, which is local governments, but above all because it refers to such an important issue, which is the protection of the environment, the protection of our nature. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is such an important global task, European, Polish, so important in Poland that it cannot be entrusted only to central politicians. That is why it was thought of local, district and voivodship funds, that these local communities should contribute to monitoring, although there are national control services from it, and in the repair of the environment in their territory. Because by removing local governments from fund management, you are losing enormous potential, thousands of eyes that should monitor the environment in our common name down there to protect them. Of course, it's tempting to have so much money from all kinds of environmental costs on your board... It's about billions of zlotys. It's about who's gonna run them. I would say this: let them be managed efficiently, well and wisely, but if they are to do so centrally, through voivodeships, a minister who has so far not been famous for anything in terms of environmental protection, nothing, and is known in Poland and in the world for the actions that harm the environment... Well, I have to say, the thought that it's up to him to find the next billions of zlotys that he has to worry about. So, what, it's gonna go to chop instead of planting? [[We're not talking about the Forest Act.]] It'll go, I don't know, for gunshots instead of animal protection? And so on... [[The purely theoretical state you've been practicing for eight years of your government...]] And now, instead of this theory that we've been systematically implementing with good grades, we have practice. The practice of an efficient devastation of what is our common good, also the good of future generations. [[Mr. Senator, that's...]] Mr. Marshal, Dear Senators, this is a risky move, it's a bad idea for these funds to be available to the voivodeships on behalf of the minister, who too often proves that he has little environmental protection. I don't even want much. It's a common one. That is why we should be against, for these general reasons. It's not just going in the wrong direction, ladies and gentlemen. It shifts the hands of self-governments from environmental impacts and transfers this effect into bad hands. [[Applause]] [[Demagogue...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u138	You have a voice, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, in this emotional speech by Senator Augustine, in which I am searching for a lot of truth, were included in the thesis I was to present. Seeing as you're Senator Pup, I'd like to congratulate you... Poland is actually developing This is true and we will not discuss it. But what I'm trying to say is that this hasn't happened in, you know, a year. Those are the vessels connected... [[Just don't steal.]] The programmes that have been implemented, and the decisions that have been made over the course of a few years, have led us to be in this place today, not elsewhere. Soon, however, we may be on the other side, because it may turn out to be a slippery slope... If we keep messing with these things, it might come to a disadvantage. We see various mechanisms, after the exchange and exchange movements, after the behaviour of investors who are willing to choose Slovakia or the Czech Republic today... Of course, we have some success. Different kinds of reliefs, layoffs, cheap land, as low-cost labor supported by Ukrainians and perhaps by other nations... But I can't agree with that point we're discussing today because it's kind of funny. I don't know, maybe the voivods don't have a lot of work and they're bored, but maybe that's a reason to think about what the voivodeship's role is today. On the other hand, throwing these things at them today, avoiding local governments, when this consensus was worked out after many years, and he was doing a good job... Because today, no one has answered the question of what happened, that such a change must be made. Doesn't that work? Are there bad results? Are there bad people? Is there such a thing as money being spent wrong? Is it poorly assessed, as colleagues raise here, from the lowest levels of local government, i.e. from municipalities, cities, to voivodships? I didn't do anything. I didn't notice that. Coming back to this bill again today and avoiding... the fact that the voivode will have the right to appoint board members, yes, if it moves to the company level as the board of directors, presidents or vice presidents... Well, it's hard for someone else to play that role today. I can't even imagine what kind of organ that could be. Yet, we should also act in some kind of framework that is proven and reliable. It is not only tested in Poland, because these forms are all over the world, in most democratic countries of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u140	Thank you, Senator. This is the second time Senator Czarnobaj has a voice for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, briefly, would like to say two words about what the Senator rapporteur said. Of course, I subscribe to what the senator said was that the Polish economy is developing. I never join the choir of critics who say that Poland is in ruins, because for the sake of Poland we must look for what the senator has said. There are some areas, actually a lot of areas where cooperation is a necessity. And the economy is an element that you have to think about together, what to do to make it grow. Because there are areas in which we can argue, have completely different views, but there is an area like an economy worth respecting. Because if there's a good economy, we'll have time to argue in other areas, and if there's a bad economy, then we absolutely won't have time. And the second statement, which is related to it. Well, I'd just like to say that this is an action that deserves the economic Nobel: in a year and a half of ruins do such a well-functioning economy. It is worth bragging about to show how it is done that a thriving economy has been made of ruin within a year. And finally... Mr. Senator, I am pleased with your declaration of cooperation, because cooperation is part of a well-growing local government. Except in my humble opinion, this law is not an example of cooperation, but everyone has a different concept of cooperation. To discuss... It's like with fractions: to add fractions, you have to bring them into the common denominator. That is why I would like to read the definition of cooperation to the senator so that we can be clear about what cooperation is. I read, Mr. Senator: Cooperation, the ability to bond and interact with others... Does this bill make these bonds more... No, because the voivode will come and say, "Here's my candidate." Working with others is that here is a group gathering and discussing for so long until it reaches its goal. [[Co-operation with others...]] Ability to work in a group to achieve common goals, ability to perform team tasks and solve problems together. If we understand this, Mr. Senator, cooperation, we will go far as the Polish Senate, what I wish you and I with all my heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u142	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main reason, I'm not talking about today's law, although we're talking about it, a law that, as you might say, moves decisions on spending funds, is that regional governments are not able to I do not know whether intentionally or not, it is possible to use these powerful billions for various kinds of programs. These programmes are not being implemented. If you talk to the President of the National Environmental Protection Fund, he will explain quite precisely that there are very many programs abandoned and there are very many financial resources that are not used in the development of our voivodships. And that's the main reason for this, not another design. The fact is... And it has to be said clearly, many people have spoken about it here, and it is also to some extent and my fault, because I did not notice it. The consensus was wrong because it was enough that members of the opposition's supervisory boards, e.g. in person of 1 representative, they blocked the selection of the board. [[Voice from the room: But this is...]] I would like to say that in the Podlaskie Voivodeship a representative of the Supervisory Board is a person from the Civic Platform and there the Management Board was elected. So that it is not that it happens throughout Poland. Now, ladies and gentlemen... I must say this because it is worth mentioning on every occasion, since you are mixing the Constitutional Tribunal into various laws. I repeat: if it had not been for June 2015, no one would have taken care of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[We're in the Senate?]] And it is not true that this storm was caused by Law and Justice. It was previously the Constitutional Tribunal that was politicized, and Mr Rzepliński was the personification of this policy. Mr. Senator Augustine, I'd like to invite you to Białowieża. I'd be happy to take care of you. You'll be well received and you'll see what the Bialowieza Forest looks like. This is a cemetery. Mr. Senator. [[Tree.]] This kind of dispute cannot be held here, because some scientists and people who are analysing the current state are in favour of human participation being necessary, while some believe that the Forest should be left in the state in which it is. And she's just gonna die. There's just dozens of acres of cemetery. You need to see this because it's impressive. I'm very cordially inviting you. And when it comes to the ministry... Well, ladies and gentlemen, the guilt of the ministry is evident, because the record I was talking about shouldn't be there, because you know... Just because voivodship sejmies are in the Local Government Act doesn't mean they're so self-government and they're not political. They're political. I do not know the sejm of voivodship in our country, which would not be represented by members of political parties. In Podlaskie Voivodship there are Platform, PSL and PiS. The PiS of course easily won and with the Platform, and with the PSL, but they have probably 2 votes more than the PiS and rule, so the voivodeship sejmies are simply political because political parties participate. And saying that the PiS is picking something up from local governments is just not true. There's politics out there. really in the fullest sense of the word. And good, Mr. Senator, because if something is political, it doesn't mean it's wrong at all. I think it's good. It's in the constitution. Political parties have the right and should take part in such elections, and Polish citizens should join political parties, because this is a really beautiful activity if it is done in the spirit of the common good. Thank you, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. Senator Pup will speak for the second time. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u145	Mr. Marshal, I think we're getting to the end of today's discussion, which is why I would like to thank in some way for the voices that were critical and sometimes emotional, but also for those speeches that were classy speeches that showed some problems, but they also showed beauty. You can say polemics, which should accompany public life. For that, I would just like to thank you as a senator. I think, Ladies and gentlemen, that these actions which are undertaken by the government, by parliament, by the coalition which I am... actually by the ruling party, the one which is ruling at this moment in Poland, will be actions which will serve Poland. And I think it's good when there's fears, when there's doubts, because then it's creative. Then it is also before us, as governing persons, that raises questions and certain doubts, and allows us to trigger the imagination that will contribute to the fact that certain nuances, shortcomings that sometimes appear in life, will be eliminated. And this will make us better in some way, as part of a larger cosmetic, with greater accuracy, with greater attention to take actions that will serve solutions. So that I thank you warmly and I think that this bill will serve the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. I'm informing you... [[Me too.]] Oh, and the senator, the marshal. There you go. Speech for the second time 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u147	Senator Dobrzyński provided very important information: in his office, in the local government, in the Podlaskie voivodship, the council was established. Under the terms of this law, which has been passed. I understand that this advice was set up as a result of the discussion by establishing joint candidates. So the senator showed up, said it was okay to do it. So why are you trying to force yourself to decide who's gonna be on the board of regional environmental funds? It really was and is a bad practice, and it's gonna have a terrible impact on the state of these voivodship funds, where there should be people who know things, professionals. So I repeat: this is an example, a good example, where the representative of the Platform agreed to set up a joint council of the voivodship fund. Then why this bill we're investigating? Could it have been done? You could have! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u148	Mr. Senator Augustine for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm just in corrigendum mode. I'm sure when Senator Pupa talked about his emotional speech, he meant mine. 'Cause these are usually like that. That's who I am, and for all these years. [[Voice from the room: Well, substance...]] There were substantive remarks, Senator, very substantive. But there were emotions. But here I would like to refer to this invitation. Well, Senator Dobrzyński is no longer here... I really hate graveyards, tree graveyards. And not just in the forest, because in all of Poland, where I drive, I watch these graveyards. And that scares me. I would agree with Senator Dobrzyński that it would be good for some experts to speak in some respects. But to do that, you'd have to at least let them into the wilderness! It should not be as it was done in the first approach with European Union experts. They will come a second time and maybe now they will be able to look at what it is like to examine the situation and to comment. Because the Bialowieza Forest is not just our good! It is good so great that it is good on an international scale. That is why, of course, the European Union is interested in this. And it would be good if, at last, this dispute that is, could find a substantive settlement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u150	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been made in writing by Senator Hare and Senator Pupa. Is the representative... [[I think you're a senator, a hare, but Joseph.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Alicia.]] Senator Hare? [[Oh, legislative proposals?]] Yes. Senator Alicia the Hare... [[I'm sorry. I was distracted.]] ...that's how it's written. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? The Minister doesn't want to speak. I therefore close the discussion. The government representative does not speak. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Commission for the Territorial Government and State Administration and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws relating to family support schemes. The text of the Act is contained in print No 548 and the report of the Commission In print No 548 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The day before yesterday, this is the 10th, 2 committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, leaned on the resolution of the Sejm on the adoption of this law concerning the amendment of several laws related to the system of support for families and decided to adopt the law together with the amendments. In order to reach further conclusions, it must be stated that the government representative present at the committee meeting justified the need for this law by a number of circumstances. The first is the sealing after a year of application of the Law on educational witnessing in terms of rational but also fair and fair use of its records. Secondly, he talked about the need to increase the offer in crèches and clubs so far as to increase the opportunities of Polish families to use the baby care system. He continued to mention that some legal arrangements aimed at further implementation of what had happened in connection with such an important event as the introduction of the 500+ system into legal circulation and practice. The committee's work, of course, was attended by representatives of trade unions in addition to the Senators of the 2 committees, in particular the Solidarity Union, who had already submitted comments, observations and even proposals for amendments during the legislative work in the Sejm. She was also a representative of local government from Silesia. The discussion, which was completely substantive, could be said to have been divided into 2 stages, the first of which concerned in general the functioning of the 500+ and derivatives system and the second of which concerned detailed amendments. In this so-called. the first part, the general part, no one questioned the principles and needs of the operation of this law, although the senators reported that these problems which came out during its implementation and which are the subject of a government statement were to be expected at the time of the proceeding over this law, but were not resolved by the government with full consequence. The interest of the members of the committee expressed a specific question about the effectiveness of the law, which, as you know, was aimed primarily at breaking the demographic crisis. At times, there were doubts as to whether this main objective, apart from three others, was sufficiently achieved. It was also said that the law certainly solved the problem of poverty, and to a large extent. The government, when presenting these proposals, which are clearly a reduction in expenditure, argued that in total these expenditures on benefits would increase from the previously proposed PLN 23.5 billion to PLN 25 billion. Perhaps this was due to the fact that during this substantive discussion the government was opposed to various proposals, or in fact to all proposals made by 2 joint committees, which aimed to improve the good of this law, or at least to avoid it from the so-called. budget cuts. Both trade union representatives and senators raised concerns about the fact that some of the committee's provisions...excuse me, this government's submission is in fact aimed at rescuing the 500+ system, but at the expense of other benefits, such as family benefits, for which a freeze is made, the statutory freeze of the increase in thresholds and the amount of benefits, although these are not the only benefits, but I will say this when I talk about amendments. The government was also opposed, for reasons I believe, to time amendments... to even one of such amendments, which increased the revenue of the state budget. But in order to meet the rapporteur's responsibilities, I inform the High House that, during this substantive debate, I would say, other than the one in the Sejm, 10 amendments were tabled and 10 amendments were adopted. The remaining 9 amendments were not supported by the High Commissions and were submitted as minority proposals. I think that this discussion caused, among other things, that no one submitted a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. In addition, 12 draft amendments have been tabled, I would say, not so much in substance as to ensure compliance with the legislative procedures and these amendments, Mr Marshal, I am supplementing the report. [[Thank you.]] What are the amendments of these 10 adopted? Firstly, the aim is to increase the employment of people with disabilities in schools and public and private education units from 2% to 2.5%. Let me remind you that the 6% threshold is commonly used employment as the cut-off limit for PFRON measures in the form of a write-off. Secondly, the senators argued that the sealing record, concerning those who lose their jobs, would change employment and then re-hire themselves to lower their income and thus to obtain or maintain the benefit, that is too far-reaching and incomprehensible interference, and they proposed to delete it. It was important for the senators that, within the framework of the current budget cuts, the family benefit of 400 PLN, granted in families with multiples, would be converted into one, i.e. it would amount to 400 PLN, and not, as so far, several times more depending on the number of times. So in the case of three children it was 1,200 zlotys. And the proposal of the government and the Sejm is to keep it at only 400 PLN. The senators also suggested that, among the criteria for taking children into crèches and kindergartens, in addition to those already present, i.e. for families with multiple children or children with disabilities, the case of single parents raising children also be taken into account. Other, other amendments are a consequence of the deletion of the provision on taking into account losses or profits resulting from the change during the period of benefit, actually provided... And the last substantive amendment. It does not agree with the government's intention that the provision on family benefits should be several, famous family benefits up to the benefits for single parents of disabled children, as opposed to the provision in which verification of benefits and thresholds was recorded for 1 year was a dead provision. And that's why I'm asking you to delete this record. The minority's conclusion is to increase the age of children in the family... [[Janek, don't do me any favors.]] [[Senator Augustine...]] Oh, excuse me. Excuse me. Attention as appropriate as possible. Maybe an excess of ambition... And in this state of affairs In addition, I ask the High House to adopt a resolution on the adoption of this law, along with the amendments resulting from the 10 amendments adopted. I would also like to point out that the committees are proposing a resolution because nine senators voted for it and there was no vote against it, but, apparently, seven senators holding back every year... indicate that the High House will accept the motion of the joint committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This was quite an important moment, because at the meeting of the Joint Committee for the time being... it is a rare picture that the amendments tabled mainly by the opposition senators could be accepted in a large number. They were dissatisfied with the fact that the 500+ programme's review did not lead to what would be expected. Because it seemed that this review would remove everything we thought would be misconfigured in this law excluding some people from this program, hindering access. However, in addition to some of the provisions that were finally adopted by the committee as sealing, the law, which amends a lot of other laws, contains provisions that not only remove the shortcomings, but even deprive many people, many families of their previous entitlement to benefits. Therefore, we, for obvious reasons, sticking to the principle that the Law and Justice proposed when this program was introduced, that it would not be at the expense of other powers, and these are the words that fell from this speaker, that there would be no other income, and these are the words that fell from this speaker... We were assured of this, and now there is a bill that makes things different. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, so far. I am now presenting minority proposals that have not received the approval of the majority, and it is a pity The multiples received a special supplement of PLN 400 per child. Maybe it wasn't because of clear-sounding rules. It could've been fixed. But by way of court-martial interpretation, families obtained it. Meanwhile, you have proposed a step backwards. In fact, in the case of multiples, 400 PLN is simply a ridiculous amount and it seems that this is an unjustified injury. The more children are born, the greater should be our joy and more help, and meanwhile we... while you are proposing that after the law comes into force, if the twins are born, give 400 zł, if triplets, then only once give 400 zł, etc. It's in many cases 400s in the family. Many other provisions that would be worthwhile could maintain the availability of the 500+ programme at, for example, the existing level, especially in cases where income thresholds are recorded. In the previous item, Senator Pupa, a little bit next to the environmental project, spoke proudly about the fact that the budget situation is excellent, that people are getting paid. Unfortunately, not all of them will enjoy it, because the income of many families is above the previous thresholds and it will be so that from the new year, from the new hand very many families, if they do not escape into the gray zone, if they do not go to some shortcuts in agreement with the employer, they will unfortunately be deprived of benefits. It seems to me that there is a very missing mechanism in the Act that would cause income to be raised as revenue increases, so that the income threshold would also be higher. In this law, we have managed as a committee proposal to push the fact that, with family benefits, these thresholds will be raised according to the plan that we proposed in the relevant regulation when we ruled. In the submission there was a proposal to keep these thresholds up to date, despite the fact that an increase in the thresholds was envisaged in 2017. We tried to... Senator Rulewski proposed a slightly different solution, but ultimately, as a minority, we propose that we accept the solution of the złotka złotka złotka used in other laws. Since you've exceeded the threshold, since your income situation has improved, this should have an impact on the amount of the benefit. Okay. But I don't think it should be that suddenly you're losing it completely. That's why we're proposing a mechanism of gold for gold. I highly recommend that you adopt this amendment. This would warn a lot of families who want to be honest and want to earn a fair living for their children, against a mechanism that excludes them from the state aid system, which is not supposed to be social aid, but is supposed to encourage children to be born in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, you have criticized here so many times the fact that the thresholds have not been raised, and now it proposes to enter the same mechanism. Every year, a smaller group of families will be eligible for this programme. That's not how it's supposed to be. That is why this change is fundamental. We opposed this and proposed amendments to daycare. One of them was that it wasn't the mayors who were assessing whether the sanitary condition of the facility was appropriate to run a children's club in it. We managed to push it through the committee. The second amendment, equally important, concerns the proposal that there could be only one nursery for children. That doesn't seem acceptable. We suggest we remove this from the bill. In this article, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 in item 6, it is proposed that there should be one room in the nursery, and at the same time that there should be a place for rest for children. Where would this place be? Which of the four angles? How did someone imagine that? I understand that when it comes to a children's club, a small group of children, you can still try to imagine it, but not with a nursery. We consider this provision to be wrong, and we propose that the Senate remove it from the article. 12. It is similar in the case of a mechanism that was probably created for good intentions to make full use of the nursery space. This is actually always a problem for day care providers. But I think the proposal that has been put forward here is wrong. Namely, such a mechanism was proposed here, that in place of a child who is sick, to receive another child. Like my parents would say, they don't really know how to manage their time when a child is shorter or longer, when it's a child, once that, as it's practically supposed to look, they don't know either the daycare manager or, I think, the ministry. I suppose you have to go in the direction in which the heads of daycare want to go, that is to say, to require that the information that is being transmitted be prepared in time so that it can be prevented that the sick children come to day care. Well, if another child comes to the place of this child, then we will naturally force the sick children to be sent to the nursery so that, God forbid, the places of these children will not be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, another amendment concerns the issue of social security coordination in the framework of the 500+ benefit. Indeed, in the marshal offices, which had this in their capacity as a commission, these matters did not go well. I personally intervened in the ministry, too. That's why in the ministry, that's where the trouble started. The Ministry did not first rationally determine what the service charge should be, and therefore the local authorities proposed different amounts, some very high, others definitely lower. And if there was this kind of amendment here, I wouldn't say anything about it. But unfortunately, also at the committee meeting, the Ministry, justifying the delegation of this task to the voivodship, argued in such a way that the local authorities were not dealing with this issue. Fortunately, there was a representative of one of the regional authorities, who very competently, based on figures, showed where the substance of the case and the substance of the dispute is. And it was evident from this that the ministry did not first transfer the money in time, then transferred too little money, and until today it transferred that money in instalments. And I don't think he realizes that by putting local governments responsible for the delay, how complicated these issues are in international relations. This is the second law, one after the other, which takes away certain competences from local governments. That's more like it. Because there's not going to be any profit if you believe the ministry that those workers who are doing this now are going to go to the voivodeship offices. So where's the profit going to be? What is this change in addition to actually denying permission? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to discuss another change that I think is very important. Namely, the right to family allowance is extended, the benefit will be granted to a person over the age of 18 when the child is studying. It is only unknown why it is written that until the age of twenty-four, while most studies last at least until the age of twenty-five. This needs to be fixed, that's what we're proposing we fix. It would cost really little. But we also said that we would like to return to a situation where children are also born in college. And we'd like to see that when there are kids in college... that these kids are properly stocked. Today 500+ is not eligible after the age of 18, i.e. when spending on children is the biggest. In addition, you do not yet want to agree that these children should at least be entitled to family benefits during their studies, their entire studies. I don't think it's... the proposals we make, the substantive proposals, they wouldn't ruin this bill in any way. On the contrary, they would improve it and give it the right to exercise this right and other pro-family rights to a greater extent, which should be our concern. In fact, I refer to Senator Rulewski's account. I also expressed my concerns as to whether the huge money that was put into the 500+ programme had the potential to increase childhood in Poland. You may have doubts about that. Childhood in Poland in various months and in different years has long waved. This growth, which was at the beginning of the year, was comparable to the growth that has happened before. There was an inheritance in April. We don't know what's next. You should rather expect it and I regret it. That this programme shows its good face when we talk about social consequences. Here's the deal, absolutely. Many families, especially many children, have improved significantly thanks to this programme. You can be happy with that. You have every right to be proud of it. It's nice to see those kids with their parents in stores, the kind of shopping they do, often better, richer than me. But it's okay. - Cheers. - Cheers. But the other part of the program doesn't really work out, so let's not ruin it. Rather, it is necessary to strengthen the stimulus rather than to weaken it, since it has not proved effective enough, at least in the case of the demographic part. We therefore encourage the senators, the Minister, to be kind, for example, to have such silent approval as the one that took place at the committee meeting on certain amendments. Please support these amendments. We have heard today in this House the assurance that the budget situation is excellent. Of course, these amendments would cost a little, but compared to the successes that are presented to us here and in the media, and everywhere, it would be a really small expense, and the benefit for families would be great. The Civic Platform, from which I come, does not question the 500+ programme, wants to improve it, wants to increase access to it, especially for those families who are hard to live, who are difficult to cope with. And in this spirit are the amendments previously tabled in the Seym, and now in the Senate. I'm asking for their support.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? [[Senator Grubski.]] Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the rapporteur. About 1.5 billion zlotys are expected to increase the funds spent on the 500+ programme. On a per-unit basis, this is 250 000 benefits per month. In which group does the number of benefits increase? In the case of the first child or the second child? Another one?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u156	That's a question for Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Statistics. As far as I know, a lot... but I think there's a larger group of people with second-child witnessing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No? I was wrong. Thank you, Minister. That's the other way around. So it's social. For nearly 4 million benefits, perhaps more than 2 million involve social assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u158	Now you're asking Senator Duda a question. The senator, too? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u159	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the joint committee. Mr Senator, please remind the High House of the position of Solidarity on this issue, which was quite strongly raised by union representatives at the joint committee meeting. There have also been a number of amendments that we have taken over by the ladies in the social section of this trade union. Could you quote this position to the High House?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u160	The position of "Solidarity," seems to be quite consistent. Yes, I'm confirming what you put in the question. Not only did they submit comments, but also reservations, and even regret that at least since the beginning of the process of this law have not been taken into account, even though they were moved in several forums, among others. at the Social Dialogue Council and the Senate, because, of course, the possibility of amendments being tabled is limited... These were, in particular, a minority request that Senator Augustine referred to concerning health protection in the case of crèches and clubs, as well as providing them with safety in the form of reception by specialised health, fire and fire services and a sufficient number of personnel, which is necessary for care in these facilities. Finally, a concrete, measurable proposal, i.e. defence of both the income thresholds for family benefits and the amount of those benefits. Except that the solidarity was a set-up and suggested the option of opting out of the increase in benefits, but absolutely maintaining the periodic necessity, especially in the following year, valorizing the thresholds, proving that it is worth saying That it is a repetition of the wrong practice of the previous authority, notabene attacked for this by the government, because this is how people who could benefit from this assistance are struck. And yet, I'm sorry, the solidarity reminded me Unless this is of no interest to the High House and your questioner that he does not forget that the 500+ programme should include children who attend college, or at least those who attend secondary school. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u161	Thank you, Senator. Senator Szymanski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the rapporteur the following question. If you'd like to present the information you've provided to the Minister about the increase in family spending in GDP over the last two years... How this is going to be for previous years and whether this process is going to be sustainable when it comes to increasing expenditures 'Cause that's what the minister was talking about. For family policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u163	As I recall, the minister confirmed that the increase in expenditure is three times From 1%, I understand, in the previous year, to 3%. The impact is particularly evident in the fight against poverty. There, these proportions are much larger and reach several hundred percent. As far as the amount is concerned, I don't want to make a mistake here, but these are the amounts counted... In total for pro-family policy, because it's not just 500+, there's also consumption of earlier projects, projects of previous coalitions, that's the amount of I think it's over 40 billion... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: 70 billion.]] Yes, 70 billion PLN, which puts Poland on the sixth or seventh place in the field of family policies among developed countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u164	Thank you. Senator Napieralski. There you go. [[I have a question for Senator Augustine, if I may.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I listened very carefully to your speech, there was such an important element in it concerning daycare. I'd like to ask and ask for clarification, if that's okay. Well, the title of this law is very important, because it talks about the support of the family. In West Pomeranian Voivodeship there is such an example when it comes to crèches. I would like to ask whether this law will regulate or at least give instruments to those who will actually implement this law. What is it? There are two counties. I don't want there to be any problems, name these districts and institutions now. Anyway, there's two counties next to each other. And in one, and in the other, there is a nursery. Surveillance services, e.g. The health department, in one place, allows such rooms to be used, in another place, as you have said, does not allow a similar building and does not cause problems. I don't want to know if there's any lobbying behind it, or if there's some sort of dislike for the lead organ. I'm just showing the problem, and I'm showing you that in the district where this nursery is really needed, there's money coming from the European Union, there's this kindergarten, and suddenly there's a lot of barriers, so that it doesn't start. For such a small town in this district it is de In fact, it's a disaster. We know that actually there are still places in daycare, also in kindergartens, but in kindergartens in particular. My question is: are there mechanisms in this bill that when a government official, instead of helping, overcoming problems, upstairs, actually collects them... It turns out that this is the same voivodeship, 2 adjacent districts and here the crèche function, and here it cannot function.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u166	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u167	Mr Senator, the discussion at the committee's meeting on sanitary conditions was about the provisions which are contained in the law and which liberalize the approach to these issues, but not in such a spirit that it would be a more uniform approach, which I understand would be good in the senator's view. On the contrary, that is, and solidarity, and we in our amendments suggested that this should not be decided by a municipal official on the basis of an ordinary view. Agreed, we assumed that daycare is no longer and should not be health care facilities, but everyone who is a parent and had a child in day care or is a grandfather and is observing how it looks in practice, knows how much it is necessary to guard health regimes there. It is a question of nutrition, it is a question of possible poisoning, it is a question of passing on various diseases to which children up to 3 years of age still have poor immunity. That is why health issues are absolutely crucial. It wasn't just our voice. In this case, as Senator Rulewski mentioned here, we spoke with one voice with.Solidarity, which claimed, however, that the health centre, which is a state service and should have uniform case law and uniform requirements, should allow ♪ Or not ♪ Not only for daycare but also for children's clubs, it was for these institutions that these provisions were to be more liberalised. There are no provisions in this law that would prevent such situations, that two different, let's say, health inspectors rule differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u168	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I had three questions, but the first question you took from me was Senator Napieralski. I can only confirm that this is a problem, and I move on to the second question. A very bad idea is to reduce subsidies for nannies. The subsidy, which is to support the ZUS contribution, was a step towards getting this profession out of the gray zone. In the end, to stop these contracts only on the word that they would be real employment contracts, employment contracts that would benefit the State as well, as PIT contributions could be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time, by reducing subsidies from the state budget, you are again putting this profession in the grey zone and your parents are forced to employ their children illegally. Why? And the next question is: why did the family benefits and allowances planned for autumn be abandoned and the income thresholds for such support increased? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u170	To whom is that a question? [[To see the Senator rapporteur.]] I understand that mostly... The committee, right? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u171	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator Komarnicki, in fact, it is so that subsidising employment so-called. nannies, which were at the level of the minimum wage insurance rate, were reduced to subsidize half of this rate from the minimum wage. And to be honest, the government should answer the question itself about the reasons for this cut so that I do not exceed the duties of the rapporteur at this point. [[That's what we're talking about.]] [[Let him explain himself.]] As regards the thresholds for family benefits and the amount of those benefits, it seems that this is a question from the same basket. And the answer may also come from the wearer of this basket. [[Thank you, Senator...]] But with regard to both issues... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] ...there is a positive response in the form of amendments adopted by the committee. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u172	Senator Duda, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u173	In fact, the question to the Senators of the rapporteurs is: is the consultation process known when it comes to investigating these decisions with the social partners? Do you have any knowledge as to the positions of the Union of Voivodships or the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission in this regard? Because it seems that, as expected, especially with regard to the Union of Voivodships, they were not necessarily favorable. Do you gentlemen have any knowledge of this? [[There were divergences...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u174	There you go, Senator Augustine, then Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u175	This draft law was consulted and there was no agreement at many points, hence the presence at our meeting of the trade union, which in a comprehensive letter addressed to our committee, as well as at the meeting itself, pointed out many shortcomings in family policy and possible solutions, proposed amendments. I can say with satisfaction that we had a bivocal voice there, and actually we only agreed with the solidarity, whether these amendments consume each other's intentions both as the Platform Club and trade unions in this area. So you could say that the dialogue was, but there was no fruit because the government did its job.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u176	There you go, Senator Rulewski wants another... There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, I have nothing more to add than what has been said.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask Senator Augustine, who presented minority proposals. Senator, in arguing that these proposals were accepted, you used such a statement that changes in the 500+ programme were made at the expense of other family benefits. [[These proposals, yes.]] Yeah, yeah. I think you're wrong. The committee vote was against these proposals, so it seems to me that this argument is inappropriate and I do not want the impression to arise that the committee seems to share your view that these changes are made at the expense of other family benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u178	I have tabled 16 amendments on behalf of the club, half of which were accepted, so I understand that in part this argument was divided, but those amendments which, for example, with regard to the thresholds proposed, the freezing of these thresholds, the cancellation of the cycle previously proposed in the regulation, the cycle of increases... that would be detrimental to families. And that's really not fair. That's what I meant in my speech. The fact that families have received 500+ and, on the other hand, the thresholds for families are frozen, I will remind you, significantly poorer, because the thresholds for family benefits are significantly lower than those for 500+. So it is really trying not to seal itself, but to save on support for poorer families, giving 500+ generously to wealthy families as well. I think it's worth resisting this, better to give this money to single mothers, better to give this money, in my opinion, to children with disabilities from the first without income threshold, instead of giving money to those who do not have to receive it at all. Mr. Senator, in my family. I'm just not gonna name names. Really well paid, and fortunately with three children they get 500+, while a person who even gently crosses the threshold will be deprived of it. I believe, Minister, that the lack of this mechanism is pushing these people to act on the border of the law. And how to be surprised by the mother raising a child alone, how to be surprised by the mother raising a disabled child, that now that the employer offers all employees a raise, and she has this choice: take a 100 PLN raise and lose... [[$1,000.]] One thousand zloty... well, not one thousand zloty, but 500 zloty, because for one child... [[But for two kids...]] And of course, that's when different ideas come to mind. You proposed a sealing mechanism there, and I think it was bad, and that is why the committee accepted the amendment so that it would not go that way. So, Mr. Senator, I hope that, after these explanations, it is better if I have expressed myself vaguely earlier, you understand my intentions. I am not saying that the government shares the position of the minority, I did not say that, but that in part the committee recognised the arguments behind these amendments, of course the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u179	Thank you. [[But...]] Mr. Senator, Senator Augustine is the rapporteur for the minority. This is obviously a specific position. [[But I just want to justify that the committee doesn't fully support...]] But it's clear, Mr. Senator, it's clear. There is a report from the minority committee because the committee did not support these amendments. [[She didn't.]] Does Senator Rulewski have anything to add? [[No.]] No. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the representative of the joint committees, that is to say, Senator Rulewski. In the current form of the Family Benefits Act It's an art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One person shall be entitled if the income of the family per person does not exceed PLN 504. In the mouth. 2 is given the amount of PLN 583. It's about families with children with disability decisions. Again, we are talking about family benefits and amounts of PLN 504 and PLN 583. The text of the novel contains a transitional article, Article. 32 which states that from 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2018, the amount referred to in paragraph 1 shall be as follows: Articles 1 and 2 5th Act, will be 674 PLN and 764 PLN, i.e. it will be higher. And the question is, when is it better for the child and the child's family? When this amount is higher or lower? Please note that if the amount is higher, more families will fall into the area of family benefits. That's what's in the text that got to us. I'm talking about print number 548. Therefore, why do the joint committees in Amendment 10 propose to delete the article. Thirty-two, that's what I'm saying. That's how I understand it. Do you want to eliminate some of the families from the possibility of receiving family benefits? Yet, they lean over their children so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u181	There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u182	This must be read together with the Council of Ministers regulation, which is a consequence of changes in the 2015 Family Benefits Act. This law generally announced a rolling increase in both thresholds and benefits. It is true that solutions have been adopted for next year... [[Counting since November.]] ...counting since November this year, which was supposed to increase the benefits. That's what the regulation's talking about. Of course, there's an investigation mechanism. There's data from the institute... I always forget the name. It's about the social policy institute. There is a discussion or consultation on the Social Dialogue Council. These benefits can be accepted, in the event of a positive dialogue with the unions and the council of dialogue and the relevant proposals of the social policy institute, would undoubtedly increase. And the government says that they will not increase, but will be maintained at the current level until November. Yes? [[You don't know until when.]] Until October 31st. These are the amounts you are talking about, 674 PLN and 764 PLN. You're right when you ask what's better. But it would be most beneficial if they were not frozen and if they were broken up with a practice where, for 9 years, no one changes benefits or thresholds. [[Nobody means who?]] [[Governments.]] Governments. The decision, as you know, Senator, is always in the hands of the government. The government doesn't have to consult, and it might change, although it would be good for the government to consult. [[There were three governments.]] That's right, three governments. As you know, I was part of this case's attorneys 'cause I'm kind of weird about family benefits. Already outside the competition, I think that the 500+ law could be incorporated into the family benefit system, which has its long practice, legal housing, which I'm sure you'd be interested in, the case law in this case... Yeah, but it happened when it happened, and I'm not gonna roll it over.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u183	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. Would Minister Stanisław Szwed like to speak on the bill, present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After the rapporteur's speech, I could not speak because he actually gave the discussion from the committee's meeting, but after the minority proposals were presented by Senator Augustine, of course, I am obliged to take the floor and address the issue of amending the law at all, but also the questions that were asked. The law related to family support deals with three main issues: the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children, i.e., as it is popularly said, 500+, My first statement will concern the 500+ law, i.e. support for families in the amount of 500 PLN. And I want to make it clear again: this bill doesn't take anything away from anyone, it's a positive law, it gives the families support. The bill was dictated by 2 reasons: to support the family financially and to change the demographic situation in our country. Both of these objectives are being pursued to a large extent. The first objective in terms of material support Yeah, I'm sure you are. This is what we are talking about, we are talking about poverty rates that have fallen, the extreme poverty rate has fallen from 11% to 0.7%. There is virtually no extreme poverty among children. Of course, the poverty rate... it's all definitely dropped. And the relationship with those who benefit from support shows that. As for the birth rate, the increase in birth rates, he is. The first quarter is an increase in the number of births of children by more than 7 thousand. There is only one month now, this is April, when 600 children were born less. But this shows that the programme is not being implemented when it comes to improving fertility or demographic indicators. Because, as I said on the example of the first quarter, growth is significant, about 7,000 children. But of course, we will continue to watch this indicator grow. And now, as far as the quotas are concerned... That's what we've been talking about here, too. Nearly 4 million children benefit from the 500+ family programme. So far, over 28 billion PLN has been spent on this program. This is huge support for families. And I think, too... We were talking about indicators here. Over 3% GDP... 2 years ago, the ratio of GDP allocated to family policy was 1.7%. Today it's over 3%. We are in the fourth place on a European scale when it comes to supporting families. So we're in front, we're in a very good position to show family support. When we discuss and compare different periods, you have to remember that today, in the programme of family policy, the main project is the Family 500+. And these other issues that we are talking about are because the funds that we spend on the 500+ family programme are significant. As for the distribution of these funds to children... 1 million 700 000 children These are the children first. There are so many benefits, the family of 500+. For the first child. 2 million 300,000 benefits are for the second, third and subsequent. 1 million 700,000 children first benefit from this program. And here, if we're talking about underestimation, 200,000 more children than we estimated, get a witness for the first child. And that's what we're talking about in terms of cost increases. So for the first child, it's bigger... This is a matter of individual decisions. So 2 million, 300,000 children. The benefit for the second and subsequent children; 1 million 700 thousand for the first child. So there's a significant share here... The percentage is like this: more than 50% children in Poland benefit from this program. And that's the first, main goal of the program. As far as the fundamental framework of this programme is concerned, we do not change them. So this is still support in the amount of untaxed 500 PLN, it is support up to 18 years of age for each second and subsequent child, for the first child the income criterion is 800 PLN, for the disabled child At the level of PLN 1 thousand 200. And nothing changes in this respect. What's changing? We wanted to change three things about the 500+ family programme that I'm going to talk about. So what are we changing? We seal the system in a situation where there were indications that in the case of a single mother's income statement... Because sometimes in these cases they are certain, I would say, inaccuracies or false information given. Therefore, this obligation is that, in the case of a single person's child, there must be a maintenance application and an attestation that the person is single. The second thing we're changing is... It is not because we do not like the voivodship government, but because of such a simple reason that today, as part of the coordination of the social security system in the payout system, 500+ for families where parents work abroad, we have a huge problem. This task is commissioned by the government to marshals of the voivodship. So we're not taking marshals, we're changing... I mean. It will not be a task commissioned to the marshals, but it will be a task which will be carried out by the voivode. It's gonna be just for a simple reason... I'll just give you this information: today it's done at 33%. more than 60% of benefits have not been paid in some voivodships. And there are still families waiting for more than a year's benefits. And since they've been waiting for over a year, we have to do something about it. It's not true that we didn't transfer funds. We're handing over the money for the tasks we've done. And the paradox is that when we look at payment costs, we see that there are voivodships in which this cost is at the level of 80 PLN, and in some it is at the level of 500 PLN, and where this cost is higher, there are the biggest arrears. Hence the change, the transfer of these tasks to the voivodeship. We hope that this will improve the situation when it comes to payouts, and will affect the discharge of this congestion, which is in marshal offices when it comes to payouts within these tasks. And the third area that's involved. This is a question of speeding up the possibility of submitting proposals, both online and through paper. But it's also about building a system that would allow a parent to come forward with a single application, so that he can make 500 zlotys and a family allowance... This will be possible from August 1st and from next year also from July 1st on-line, so as to speed up the implementation of the programme. And these are, like, the main objectives and changes in the 500+ family programme. Another issue that also sounds here is the issue of care for children aged up to 3 years, i.e. the nursery law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we have such a situation in Poland that in more than 70% The municipalities have no nursery care, none at all. Yeah, more than 70%. municipalities. And we either want to change it or we don't. If we want to change that, let's make proposals. I'm not going to refer to data from previous years, because it doesn't make sense, but I'm going to say that today we need more than 100,000 places in daycare, we need new... Hence the changes we propose. What are the causes of this situation? One of the reasons you were talking about was Senator Napieralski. Well, it's making it harder to set up daycare. Therefore, the changes we are proposing are moving in such a way as to facilitate the setting up of daycare facilities as well as clubs. There's no way it's gonna be any kind of complete freedom. Both in the Regulation, then certain health and fire conditions must be met so that this condition can be met... If there is a decision to build a new nursery, it will be possible to enter into contact with the health inspection at the construction stage in order to have the right investment conditions. But it will also be possible to appeal against the decision, it will simply be an administrative form, so it will no longer be possible to hold this decision any time That's what the senator was talking about. It's just a possibility. We also create an opportunity for parents to influence this. We're creating the so-called. parents' consultative boards, which will also be able to influence them. We are also introducing food-related mechanisms. Today's a full-blown day. Now this proven institution, the Food and Nutrition Institute, will be in this area. It also regulated these issues. And that's the range of changes that... We aim to give you the opportunity to create more crèches to increase your care. We also provide funds from the Labour Fund for carers of children who will be able to benefit from this in areas where there is high unemployment, so as to help both families and those who are unemployed. This is the second shift on daycare. And, of course, the third amendment on the Big Family Charter. We want to make it easier for more families to benefit from this possibility, and we are introducing from 1 January 2019 such a solution that all those who have ever raised three children will be able to use the Large Family Charter. About this issue that has been raised The opinion of the trade union was also quoted as "Solidarity" regarding the income criterion, and today we have a completely different situation. The fact that we criticized our predecessors for many years for freezing the thresholds was due to this simple reason that there was no other program, only family benefits. Today we have family benefits and 500+. And this is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And relief. So if we look at the support of the children, we'll see that it's three times higher than it was. So that's where you have to look at family policy. There is no possibility that someone who today receives 500 will lose, because we are counting the revenue from 2016, which means there is no threat here. Senator Augustine spoke about the 400 PLN issue per child. Mr. Senator, the Supreme Administrative Court in 2014 issued a resolution on the need to regulate this. Well, the state didn't settle it. We've regulated it now so that it's... [[But positive, not negative.]] [[Voice from the room: Why didn't you regulate?]] [[Voice from the hall: We've been waiting for you.]] Then why didn't you settle it? You should've settled it. So that we regulated it in this way, because that was the message of this law. And the one before that, too. If it wasn't, you wouldn't be submitting your project, which you had in order to clarify. You could say that we do it in the same spirit. And I think these are the most important points you've talked about. If there are any questions, of course I'd like to answer them. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u185	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The first was Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u186	Recognizing the far-reaching changes in verification and reduction, I would like to ask why these changes have not been included for years in the postulate for the valorization of care allowance addressed to all governments, which for 11 years, and this is the amount of PLN 153, has not changed, and which children and their parents apart from 500+ or other benefits can help. And the second question about the same subject. For years there have been judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning permanent welfare benefits which differ so far from each other. The government's declarations, including the minister's, were that this year it would be settled. Why wasn't it done on this occasion?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u187	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u188	Thank you for these questions, because these are important questions. As far as the issue is concerned... Maybe I'll start with the second part on care benefits, special care benefits, guardians' benefits, which, after the Constitutional Court's judgment... Still, you can count the pensions that mothers received because of the disabled... We have four groups. I'm not gonna go into details about how this happened anymore. We know very well that the case is still not regulated today and this division, the unfortunate division, has started the Platform and PSL government. And then this system crashed, and then you tried to clarify it, and it didn't work out, and we have a ruling from the Court, and so on. etc. A fundamental issue if we want to regulate it. And we want to, that's the goal. It is that we in Poland change the system of case law. The Minister perfectly remembers that several attempts have been made to do so. If we do not do so, all attempts to change the individual benefits I am talking about, whether it is the care provision, which today is at a good level, because it concerns children and there is no income criterion, and to that we must equal... But in the case of a special welfare allowance, we have a profit criterion, we still have so-called. an old pension scheme that takes account of the child's disability, where this allowance is also much lower than that... And we still have a lower benefit after the Court's ruling... It needs to be regulated, but in order to do that, first we need to change the system of case law, we need to seal this system so that what happened during your term of office doesn't happen, where in this system, if I remember correctly, then the number of beneficiaries has grown from 300 000 to more than 1 million. And this system just crashed. The income criterion has been abolished and so it has happened. Today you have to seal it first, make a new system, and then try to regulate it all. And here there is no dispute, because this is a matter for all of us, so to speak, painful, because we know what the situation of many of these families is, and these issues need to be settled, as well as the issue of caring benefits, with this amount of PLN 153, because it needs to be incorporated into the whole system. If we don't, any attempt at regulation will cause another group of people to try to avoid it or there will be other factors... It's for regulation. At the moment, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska has appointed a team that works. At the head of this team is the president of the Social Insurance Institution, Prof. Uścińska, and we hope that in the near future we will be able to prepare solutions that we can present to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u189	Thank you, Minister. Senator Duda is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the campaign you said there'd be 500+ for every kid, which means I understand you cheated because... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mr. Senator, no...]] But I'm sorry. You said he'd be there for every kid? Answer me. Is that what it was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u191	In the election campaign, there's never been a word that for every child, it's not true... [[Minister...]] There wasn't such a... And as for the program I was working on, it was said that from the second and the next child... The first child was attached at a later stage of work. [[But did Prime Minister Szydło say she'd be there for every child? Was that what you said, Minister?]] [[Voice from the room: Let's work on the bill.]] Again... [[During the campaign, did Prime Minister Szydło say that for every child? Was that a statement?]] I work on documents, and I know... [[Okay.]] ...what was in the papers. [[Good. In my opinion, you cheated because you said something else. But I'd like to ask if the marshal will allow it. Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u192	I'm waiting for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u193	So do you not feel, Minister, that this programme, although you have in the name of your political formation law and justice, is, however, unfair? We were talking about these examples. And it seemed that it was now possible to lead to at least some discussion or opening of a segment concerning multi-child families. 'Cause I'm gonna fight over families with lots of kids here in my speech... And the question... We have presented this example many times. We've got a four-man... There's a family where there's four kids, right? One child is 12 years old, one of them turned 18 yesterday, two of them are in college. They live in a small town. And they need this program the most, in my opinion, the most, because he, when it comes to paying for the dorm, such social, living support, could help them, and they are excluded from it. Multi-child families, which, in my opinion, need support most, are excluded from this program. Wasn't it worth considering the amendment you made? That's another question. And another, if you and Mr. Marshal will allow it. I would like to ask you why you will not consider the situation of a single mother with a child who has a minimum wage. Why is she excluded from this program just because what she earns exceeds 800 zlotys? Why aren't you able to perform a gesture that is especially needed by a single mother who raises a child? We know exactly what the atmosphere is among the employees paying these benefits. They make 2,000, 2,000 500 and pay 500+ benefits to families with income of 15, 20 or 30 thousand. That's the kind of family that gets a witness, and that single mom. No, no, no, no, This really is extremely unfair. Can you consider the situation of single parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u194	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u195	We are after a year of validity of the law, this is the first review. These voices are duplicated in the debate. In the following years, after the next review, we will see how it works. Let me just remind you that in a group of people who benefit from the benefit of PLN 500 per first child It's a total of 1 million 700 thousand children. There are 700,000 single parents. So it's not like someone's excluded, only if they meet certain conditions... I'll say it again: this program doesn't exclude anyone. It's a positive program, he adds. What you're saying is that someone at some point... The programme entered into force on 1 April 2016. Those who have children at the time benefit from this programme. The charge you're talking about, we could be anyone... The Lord raised children, and so did I, others, but we did not receive this witness, because then no one gave it. Today we give them, it concerns this group of people and these... [[But we're talking about what's going on right now, about some social justice.]] This is an element that makes this program positive. We're not taking anything from anyone under this program. This program adds... In the amount of global it is to add 28 billion PLN to Polish families.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u196	Thank you. Now I have a question for you, Minister. Tell me how many foreigners are using this program. If someone's working... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: This program is not used by foreigners.]] They don't? I understand that if someone works here, for example. Ukrainian, and he's bringing his family here... He doesn't use it? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I mean, he can benefit if he has a permanent stay in our country and pays all benefits. That's when I did.]] I see. Because when I heard they didn't use... And I know they are. Can you tell us how many foreigners, especially Ukrainians, benefit from this program? The government and we should all be interested in keeping these people who come from Ukraine to work here. If they use the support program, they send the kids to school, etc., they'll stay here. That's the question I have for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u197	We don't have that kind of data right now, but I can give you other data. This is certainly not a significant group, but in terms of insured Ukrainian citizens from the whole group currently employed in the Social Insurance Institution for last year, it was less than 200 thousand. In this group you could look for people who have children and use this program, but at the moment we do not have such data. If we do, Mr. Marshal in writing... [[Then if you can, if you have such data, in writing...]] Right now, as the director tells me, we don't have that kind of data.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u198	Since you don't have that kind of data, obviously I don't want you to do this kind of extra work... Mr. Director... Don't you have that kind of data? [[Director of the Department of Family Policy in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Olgierd Podgórski: Unfortunately.]] Good. Then don't answer me. 200,000... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: So many are insured.]] ...insured. Well, you don't know how many kids... We don't know that. Please... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: We will present to the ZUS about such... Well, we will see.]] If you don't mind... Then answer me in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Good. We're gonna go to the U.S.S.S., and if we get that information, we're gonna give it to her.]] And if you don't have that information, write down that you don't have that information. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u199	Minister, I have three questions. The Commission has accepted our arguments and the solidarity that this mechanism, which is intended to serve sealing, verifying when someone returns to work after a three-month break, is not appropriate. Because there are actually simpler ways of avoiding those income thresholds, in which the state offers no cure. Don't you think? That's the question. That the gold-for-gold scheme would just be a very good mechanism that would discourage you from conspiring to receive a benefit for which there are income thresholds? Then we would not deprive the benefit at all, in its entirety, but would reduce it by the amount by which the threshold would be exceeded, of course to, say, 20 PLN, so that the operating costs would not be higher. This is a trained mechanism and it would be a real answer, on the one hand, going in the direction that Minister Duda was asking for, namely, to include some part of the children for whom the thresholds are just exceeded and, on the other hand, dissuading the combination. That's the first question. Two. You talked about delays at the Marshal's office, but you didn't tell the Minister of Causes at all. So I ask, where did these delays come from? Out of the bad will of the officials you want to hire now? Or for lack of money, as they claim? Is it because things are complicated and here moving from office to office not going to change anything? Tell us, what are the reasons for these delays, and convince us that all this is worth moving to the provincial office? Because at the committee meeting, the director of the regional social policy centre said that these reasons were absolutely not on their side, that it was not their fault. Next, the last question. The Minister denies that this bill is to exclude anyone. And at the committee meeting, like on your sleeve, you were talking about how many families, almost a year, fell out of family benefits because the thresholds were frozen. And now you want to prove to us, Minister, that if the thresholds are frozen, people aren't going to fall out, as they were before? Please be consistent. The freezing of thresholds means that after income increases another family group is not eligible for benefits. In this sense it falls out of these benefits or is excluded from these benefits, let us not argue over words. The facts are this. The Minister quoted, in response to my... [[Mr. Senator, questions.]] The Minister at the committee meeting quoted how it was in previous years, and now you deny that for the same reason this mechanism will result in the same. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u200	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u201	I think I've explained... Because there is one fundamental difference: that today we have a 500+ program and this program is not included in income when it comes to benefits. If we count it, we could assume that those families are losing it. Yeah, but they don't, 'cause 500+ is off. And these families get 500+. And sort of in this context. I was talking at the board meeting about family benefits that went out... I gave you an example. Since you have not changed the income criterion in terms of family allowances for many years, in all the years of your term of office, of the 5 million 500 000 allocated to your family allowance, there have been 2 million. Three million 500,000 children fell out. And in that context, that's what I said. [[But now they're gonna fall out!]] If we meet next year and Mr. Senator proves to me that the same size came out... then we'll be even, as we say. But it won't, I assure you. [[It's been nine years, Minister.]] 2012 to 2017, from PLN 504 was the amount of... When it comes to not raising the allowance. When it comes to the mechanism of gold for gold... [[Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that...]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, this is not a discussion.]] As regards the mechanism of gold for gold, it was introduced at the end of the previous government's term of office and entered into force on 1 January 2016. Our assessment of this mechanism after a year of operation is definitely negative. He didn't bring the results you were thinking about, and he didn't improve the situation. A complex mechanism has been put in place, which makes working around a reduction in revenue by a zloty more than, so to speak, profits from it. So let's use simple solutions. The 500+ family programme is such a simple solution. The senator spoke about the transfer of tasks from the Marshal's office to the voivodeship. We've got over 60% today. the arrears that are over a year old, and that's why we're looking for a solution. This solution, in our opinion, is to transfer these tasks and submit them to the voivodship offices. I will not refer to the matter of the director who was at the committee meeting. In her office, the level of arrears reaches more than 60%. And that's where I'd have to look for a reason. But like I said, you don't have a principal, and I'm not gonna deal with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u202	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u203	Mr. Minister, two questions. The first is of a general nature. The opposition attacks us all the time and offers us something, and before that, it didn't introduce anything. Is the government considering the possibility of gradually raising thresholds so that it doesn't collapse financially? It's 800 zlotys and 1,200 zlotys. That would make more and more families with one child enter the system in such a natural way that I would describe it, in a way. If so, when will that be possible? The second question concerns the problem of failure of marshal offices to carry out their tasks. As this programme was introduced, I had such doubts, and I spoke about them publicly, that there could be such situations that some local authorities would talk about municipalities at the time, and they would try to sabotage the programme for political reasons. I understand that this is not the case, that the municipalities are doing very well with these responsibilities, but I would ask you to calm me down and answer the question whether this is the case. Isn't there some kind of conflict on the line? The municipalities in the matter of the transfer of money? I know there's been such problems that some municipalities have been holding money in their accounts for three months. But, as you can see, it's worse in marshal offices. It's where politics has more influence. I would like the Minister to present the best marshal office, one that has done his job, I would call it, preferably percentage and worst office. Then we'll have a picture of the situation, see what it all depends on. I would also ask for information about the third Marshal's office, the office of the Opole Voivodship. I live there. and I would like to see how officials carry out their duties under this much-needed social bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u205	Mr. Senator, first line. With regard to the thresholds of 800 and 1200 PLN, in this annual report, which concerns the law, we do not, of course, foresee this, which does not mean that after another discussion we will not return to this subject. As the senator rightly pointed out, this issue is directly related to the state budget. We'll see how it all works after the decisions we made in the Seym and we'll make in the Senate. That's the first line. As for the holding of funds and the problem with Marshal's offices... In the reserves of the voivodships there were funds allocated to this task by the marshal's offices. Over PLN 6 million more have been transferred to marshal offices to carry out this task. As far as backlogs are concerned, I will not now answer the senator's question about the various voivodships, but in some voivodships 60%. proposals are still pending and in some 30%. That's the division when it comes to voivodships. There are voivodships where funds have not been sent to families since the start of the programme. That's why we're determined to change that. As far as the cost of the decision is concerned, I've already talked about it. The cost of decisions in marshal offices was extremely uneven, ranging from 80 PLN to 500 PLN. And what was the weirdest thing about it? Well, where there were and are the greatest arrears, there were also the highest amounts for the decision, reaching up to 500 PLN. In particular, as far as voivodship is concerned, allow me, Senator, that we will reply in writing because I do not have such data at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u206	If I may, Minister, I would ask for two more issues to be included in the detailed reply, namely the number of cases, because this also matters, which the Marshal's office is considering. Well, from different areas Poles leave and the average number of children in the family is also varied. And then there's the second line. From which countries in the marshal's office this money was... What countries have this been agreed with? Because perhaps it is also so that the blackouts concerning this procedure are also outside Poland, simply because of the procedures in individual countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u207	You're right, Mr. Senator, these situations also happen, which is why I'm not talking about the guilt of workers or other people here, because also the question of coordination can cause these backlogs, in terms of decision-making by other countries. Detailed data will be provided to the senator, including data on the number of cases in each voivodship. Mr. Marshal, I'm done here. I don't know if anyone else has any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u208	Excellent. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] [[Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] Senator, I'm sorry. There you go. [[Władysław Komarnicki.]] You're welcome. [[We're on the list, Mr. Marshal.]] Exactly, I didn't have that list because I changed Marshal Borusewicz... [[But I think I'm saved, Mr. Marshal, right?]] Okay, yeah. All questions will be asked. [[May I?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u209	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you probably heard the Senator rapporteur send me to you, so I repeat my questions. A very bad idea is to reduce subsidies for nannies. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Ah, I did not answer that question.]] The subsidy, that is to say, to assist, to support the contribution of the ZUS, including the profession, was a step towards pulling this profession out of the grey zone and finally to stop it only on a word, Minister, so that it would be real employment contracts, employment contracts, from which the State would also profit, because it would be possible to deduct the contribution of the ZUS from PIT. By reducing subsidies from the state budget, you are putting this profession at risk of returning to the grey area we know, and your parents will be forced to illegally hire nannies for their children. My short question: why? And a second short question. Why have family allowances, allowances and income thresholds for such support been given up for autumn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u210	If it's about the nanny, I'll say yes. The operation of nannies, that's the name of it, is on the level of about 8,000 a year. You can see a decrease in the number of nannies employed every year, despite the current rules. To be honest, this mechanism doesn't exactly work with nannies. There are also many, in general, abuses in this area. That is why we limit the funding by allocating these funds to day care providers. So it's like shifting and equalizing opportunities for nannies and babysitters, trying to make it a similar level, but increasing resources for day care providers for children. That's the first answer. When it comes to freezing the thresholds, that's what I've been talking about. This is the case, among other things. because if we talked about family benefits, the increase in benefits would be at the level of PLN 5 That's why we're betting on the 500+ family program here. And the whole family policy around the 500+ programme is also being discussed at the moment, discussing how it is better that I say so, so that there are no situations like today in the case of family benefits, i.e. that there is a problem every year with raising it by 2, 3 or 4 PLN. This is a bad system that only causes... just irritates people. This needs to be changed and simple systems applied. And the 500+ family programme is a simple, readable system, so it is worth building a whole family policy around it. [[And to you, Senator Czerwiński, I would like to point out that the best marshal's office is Lubuski, because Ela Rafalska is from Gorzów, Mr. Senator. And don't ask rhetorical questions.]] I never said that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u211	It wasn't a question anymore, Senator, it was a statement. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. However, I will return to what are the real reasons for passing on the coordination of benefits from the Marshal's offices to the regional offices. Minister, you know very well that this is a decision... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: It is so loud that I can't hear anything.]] But can you... Excuse me, Mr. Minister, you can't hear... [[I'm sorry. Quiet, please, because you're disturbing your club mate.]] And the Minister. [[And the Minister, yes.]] Minister, you know very well that in Poland there is a law of law, but Polish officials turn to the Netherlands, the United States, and it sometimes takes months to handle such a case. It is therefore hardly surprising that the Marshals' offices, regional social policy centres in this area have failed... And I suspect the same thing will happen in the voivodship offices. Right? There's danger here too... And this is a manifestation of centralism: everything is to be in the government system. I would also like to ask you, Minister, if you are aware of what this will be for the legal construction, according to which since the decision of the voivode... Yes? Because the decision will belong to the voivodeship, i.e. the representative of the government in the voivodship, and the appeal will be granted to the self-government Board of Appeal. I mean, the decision will be voivodeship, and the appeal will be to the self-government appeal college? Well, that kind of legal design seems ridiculous. Unless I'm wrong... Check it out. 'Cause if it is, it's kind of a weird novel for me. Another question, if you don't mind... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes, I listen, I listen all the time.]] Yes? May I? Thank you. Another question. Do you have data on the deactivation of women in connection with this programme in the Ministry? Because it's commonly said that up to 200 grand can reach the number of women who quit their jobs. Which, of course, from the point of view of caring for a child, can have its good side... But what happens when the child reaches the age of 18? Is this the kind of mom that's gonna have... Are you prepared for this? It's about bringing these women back to the labour market so they can continue to function. 'Cause I think it's a little dangerous... And the last thing we need to do is put all this together. You say that this program works well among families of many children. I was trying to show that it wasn't so obvious. But I think you have to admit, too, because there are official data here that, as far as families are concerned, poverty in this area has fallen by only 4%. It's still here... and 500+ won't solve this problem. So I would like you to keep this in mind and examine whether you have examined the effect of the 500+ programme in multi-children's families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u213	I'm gonna start with the last question about poverty. The senator knows very well that there are three categories of poverty. And I'm talking about extreme poverty, and in this sense there's a decrease from 11.7%. up to 0.7% So there's practically zero. So this is the hardest moment for children when it comes to extreme poverty... Here, yeah, there's... In others, so to speak, the categories of poverty are smaller, but it is also significant. So this program in the first part, the one about material support, meets the expectations. But, of course, there is still a road ahead of us that we need to go and somehow improve it. It's a matter of coordination. I've already explained... Well, we'll see. We're trying to somehow unload where the embolism is. If we don't make a move here, in another month's time, we'll have even longer queues when it comes to the implementation of the program. So we want to pass this on to the voivodeships' offices, and there is no problem when it comes to employees. So we'll see... when we meet next year, then we'll know if we were right or if the senator was right. And then there's the third thing... [[But, Minister, if you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a question. To whom will the voivodship's decision be appealed?]] To the Ministry, we'll have an appeal against the voivode's decision. [[It seems that in the project there is a record that this is an appeal to the local review college.]] [[Yeah, that's how it is.]] [[So, what's the construction?]] I'll check it out, Senator, and I'll answer... Unless you're the principal here... [[Director of the Department of Family Policy in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Olgierd Podgórski: Transitional, for one year.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Ah, right...]] [[To college...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Just like today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u214	These are senators' questions for senators. [[Joy in the Chamber]] They can be asked outside the room after the debate. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: We will explain...]] Are there any more questions? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: One more thing, Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u215	I'm gonna explain some things about... [[Of course.]] ...with unemployment, because it's important... [[And the activation of women.]] A very important topic that goes on in the debate. We have the latest figures on unemployment at the end of June, 7.2%. Lowest unemployment. There is no confirmation that there is an increase in unemployment especially among women, especially among mothers. The percentage of unemployment in women has remained at a similar level for many years, so there is no jump here. It has to be monitored. If And here we have a full agreement. Some mothers in many families give up their work to use the program and take care of their children at home, so it's only for the benefit of the family, for the children. [[Minister, I'll ask you again if the plan... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u217	Thank you. But do you plan that your mother will come back someday? She's gonna raise a kid, he's gonna be 18 years old, she's gonna take care of the house, but then she's gonna have to go back to the job market. Right? Are there any projects in this area, programmes for those returning to the labour market?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u218	No, there isn't a special show like this today because there's no need to create a program like this right now. These programmes, which are being implemented today through labour offices, are a sufficient instrument to support these activities. Of course, if there was a problem that you were talking about, then a special program would have to be prepared. That's not a problem for today. As we see statistically, women's deactivation is at a similar level.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u219	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u220	Minister, that's how you answer the syntax and forgiving, but there's a certain silence in this bill, which is a reference to On maintenance, that is, the case most affected by fate and the material situation of mothers, generally mothers. And you're sending it back to ad acta. Yes, you seal for single parents, they have to get executive titles, which, let's say, isn't that bad, but it's not a kindness... The question is: when will this maintenance problem, benefits, painful for the people concerned and, above all, children, for the state budget, for hard work in local governments, be resolved?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u222	The senator raised a very important subject, although it is difficult to answer this question in a short speech. Let me put it this way: at the moment, the arrears of the maintenance fund are huge, over PLN 10 billion. Our department, together with the Ministry of Justice, is working first to seal this system, i.e. to create mechanisms that will ensure that there will be no circumvention of the law, in the sense of paying alimony... In fact, there are no solutions to this project. I hope that, as I have already said, in the framework of two resorts, we will be able to prepare solutions that we can present to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u223	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your patience in answering all your questions. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this case, on this bill and on the whole system, which is a flagship construction of a politically-based PiS, there is far-reaching abstinence or reconciliation. Namely, the promotion of his program, which in two words consisted in making the benefits universal for all those who study, i.e. for those up to twenty-five years of age. It was all about saying that a kid at school equals zero costs. In fact, it was all about similar expenses, but it was free of bureaucracy and what we are witnessing today. After more than a year of application of the law, the government admits that the system still needs to be sealed. I agree with Senator Augustine. How many more sealing instruments need to be used, for example, for all those reasonable, in my opinion, women trying to combine work that will give them retirement and at the same time receive benefits? The government sees abuse here, and I also see the sense of a woman who receives only PLN 2,000 and wants to strengthen her earnings by providing 500+. As part of my abstinence, I must note, Dear Senators of the PiS, that 500+ begins to lose the word "plus." In this bill 500 PLN is preserved and the benefits are taken away. The system has reached the wall. And here's the question: is there going to be a hole in the wall and more people will be pushed out of the wall? As a result of what? As a result of another good trend, which we see in Poland, i.e. increases in wages. The increase in wages denies all the principles of the Act, which are social in nature. And he's not just gonna deny what I'm about to say... I'm definitely fighting it because it's a deep injustice. He will also deny all those who, as a result of good economic quotations, improve their wages. Of course, there is inflation, of course there are other processes. That's the first point. Second note. I think there's a discussion to be made. This program has indeed become popular and behind it there is a recognition for the PiS team, but it is unmistakable that in the fourth assumption, in which it is said that it is the family that knows how best to spend money, but it is the nature of financial distribution. I mean, you're right. Okay, I'll remind you. We don't give money. Even the PiS government doesn't give money. The government merely redirects taxpayers' money from one pocket to another pocket. We must be very careful in this distribution. In response to Senator Szymański's questions, the Minister says that we have increased our expenditure, and that is very much so. Indeed, there are 70 billion. As a result, others had also increased their expenses earlier. But that's not the essence of politics. The essence of politics is to optimize, so that as much money as possible achieves the greatest possible goals. Today we see that the assumption of breaking the demographic impasse in Poland is not yet sufficiently proven. Maybe a year isn't enough, but you can see the elements of the hesitation. It is true, however, that people are attached to this program, and indeed we are dealing with leaks. I will now refer to the deep injustice that Senator Duda referred to here, touching a single parent. As a result of the increase in minimum wage growth, this is a very large group of people The persons who have been granted benefits from the Alimentation Fund shall lose their right to receive them. Some of this is losing the law this year, but in the near future it will be a much larger group. What's more, they can't correct themselves in any way. Other people, generally single women who earn a little more, will lose the 500+, which means they will become victims of loneliness. Loneliness, which additionally condemns to a minimum wage. The second problem that I raised in the amendments is indeed about valorisation. As I said at the committee meeting, I am on this issue, you can say, a moderate senator and you can say that gold is such a precise element. But today I ask that the benefit be valued as a wage-based benefit so that it doesn't push out of it... that it doesn't be the same as in the case of benefits, i.e. family benefits, that the number of recipients of these benefits has fallen from 4 million to 2 million. The mechanism of wage valorization, perhaps some correction, as is the case in other laws, could prevent it and, what is important, it would be beneficial for the stability of the family, because after all, the child not for a year, for 2 years, only for at least 25 years remains under the care of the parents. Third amendment. I would like to say that some things come from the will of the government. Because if it increases, and rightly so, the minimum wage, it results in loss of benefits in another segment. Therefore, it seems that the government should react in some way to this in the bill. The second such action of the government is education reform. Namely, in the framework of this reform, the age of starting school was increased and thus the age of graduating was increased. Today it is assumed that if this is high school, it is 19 years old, and if it is a tech school, it is 20 years old. This means that between the age of eighteen, which is prescribed by the Act and the age of 20, the child will be deprived of this care. Well, it's hard for this kid to risk having to take a break from... employment... And the next thing you know, it's the nanny. Here Senator Komarnicki expresses, let's say, the surprise that he's shrinking, he's not taking it away, but he's halving this benefit. I agree with all those who say this institution didn't surprise you. Only 3.5 thousand nannies in Poland, as was said 2 years ago, were involved in this. But I think it's a target form, because it doesn't just normalize the relationship between babysitters and babysitters and nannies themselves. That's the point. Here with the professor, the chairman of the committee... Because there is a problem whether the nanny is to be an employee or is to be covered by another form identifying the worker so-called. domestic work to meet the requirements and needs of a babysitter, not to be merely an employee, because it sometimes means maintaining very rigid forms of relations... And yet this applies to a person who is the guardian of the child, children, a person who enters into the household nips, into the various domestic nappies that occur not only in matters relating to the care of the child, but also in matters, I would say, subject to protection. So that this relationship would have to have a different legal form, so that the principle of trust, not the principle of a written contract, would be a fundamental principle. However, until that happens... what have we brought in, Minister? I think for three years there's been a rule about, let's say, retirement that you're giving a minimum pension in the future, and now we're doing this thing, another group of ZUS clients that I don't know... we don't know if they're gonna actually keep the benefit. However, I would suggest that this should continue until an even better method has been developed. So... [[Mr. Senator, I must offer to interrupt your speech.]] You have a very good proposition, but I think you're gonna lean on the irrelevant one, I'd say, that's the baby's problem at day care. [[Unfortunately, I have to lean on a less significant time limit problem, Senator.]] Correction... the baby at daycare has been in 20 weeks... do you know it or not? [[I do.]] ...up to three years old. And now we say... [[I don't remember, but I do. Mr. Senator...]] Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm done. I can't interrupt my sentence because I won't be understood by the ministers and gentlemen... And that baby... [[We understand each other without words, Senator. It's been a while.]] These children are in a group of 20 people together in one room. But let us leave them the right to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. [[But do you understand, Mr. Marshal?]] Understood, yes. Mr. Senator Duda. Remind me. 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u226	Yes, sir. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's been a year and three months since the flagship launch... I'd say even the flagship of Law and Justice when it comes to social policy. And it's time to summarize and evaluate what's good, what's wrong with this program. The government has made some attempt, in my opinion insufficient, because this year has given or gives the possibility of more specific decisions and corrections in this programme. But that is, of course, my opinion, the opinion of the opposition representative. The undoubted advantage of this program is this. And I say it with respect to those who have decided to do it. That 27 billion PLN was found for the social programme. That's hard to discuss, because it's hard facts. I know how difficult it was for me, when I was in the ministry, to talk to the finance minister about the issues of social programs, because these subjects were difficult or, I would say, very difficult, so I would like to express my appreciation for achieving a budget result of PLN 27 billion, because the facts are not discussed. But I think it's worth saying that I don't see anything, Minister, except the 500+ programme when it comes to a project or an idea for a social policy of the Government of Law and Justice. What else do you have to propose today? I'm so convinced that 500+ sucked the whole idea out. Although you say that various solutions will be built around it, I find it hard to believe, because the question is: where will the funds be? If it costs 27 billion zlotys, how are there gonna be money for seniors, for any senior program? Do you have any idea? What about the youth? This is the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. It's hard to concentrate on just one 500+ program that I've already said He's got his strengths. For me, the very symptomatic success of this program, which has to be mentioned, is the elimination of the so-called. The notebooks in the small rural shops, they say they've dropped dramatically. This is, of course, a very positive aspect. But we have not yet achieved demographic effects through this programme, as I understand it. Maybe it's too soon to talk about it. We realized that after a year... Although in April, as you know, during her speech in the Sejm, the Minister no longer provided information about April, she only stopped in March and in April fewer children were born. But it could be. Just like the Minister said. It's temporary. So I would like to say that I emphasized this in my questions and I will stick to it very consistently. Even though there is so much money in this programme, it is socially unfair. He skips the many families that need support most, the ones that have kids in college, in high school, somewhere in boarding schools. They're left unsupported. They can't help themselves as part of this program, because they're not beneficiaries of it. You didn't take care of it. It seemed like there was some way we could at least make a breach. I understand that the simplicity of this programme, Minister, is its advantage and that money in the pocket is its asset, but many people are excluded, i.e. stigmatized, so they are not supported, which they deserve, especially in the case of the great effort of training children. in academic centers or in district cities, etc., and live in the countryside or in small-town environments. I would like to say that, in my opinion, it is not enough for you to modify this programme after this year, because the elements I am mentioning would probably be a necessary improvement in this programme in relation to expectations. Well, I guess people come to your senators and say: why me, having four or five children, being the most difficult situation, because my wife doesn't work, and I'm e.g. the driver or the occupation not paid very well, I am deprived of it. This is worth paying attention to. I would like to appeal to the Minister to take a look at this Maybe not even next year, maybe faster Because the modification really will be for the benefit of the people of our homeland and this program will be able to be used. I would like to conclude by saying that, contrary to what some of the representatives of today's ruling formation say, my formation certainly does not think about eliminating this program, but on the contrary, He wants to improve it, modify it, seek additional resources to support the Polish family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u227	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to begin by reminding you of the words of my predecessor, Senator Duda. Family support is indeed a very big issue, built of many elements that must work together and work together so that the family actually has your support, and the state is committed to helping the family, especially those families who need it. If the Minister agrees, I will focus on the matter that I have asked the Senators of the rapporteurs about daycare and kindergarten, especially daycare. This is a matter that concerns my constituency, my voivodship, and it is quite important. We know very well that the matter concerning kindergartens and nursery schools in Poland is a very important, sensitive and inadequately resolved matter. Places and kindergartens, and day care is still very little. We are in these statistics, especially in Europe, in a remote place and there is a lot to be done here. If you will allow me, I would like to ask you for your opinion on how and how to make kindergartens and crèches, especially crèches, more and more, because it is really very bad in Poland when it comes to crèches. I agree with those who, from this place and also from their own place, have asked questions or spoken today and said that the safety of our children, the safety of those who take care of them, is very important, important. There's no doubt about that. What to do, what mechanisms to use to take into account this security, taking into account all the standards that exist today in developed countries, while at the same time using European Union funds, budget resources, local government assistance and all those who want to help and build kindergartens, will make these kindergartens and daycare facilities as quickly as possible? It also means that state officials should be those who help and do not disturb. The ideal in every country would be that a government official, a local government official, is the one who helps who stretches out his hand. Even if there is a shortcoming, a flaw, something that can be fixed, the official helps and shows solutions, and does not try to block them. I gave an example today of 2 places in my voivodship, 2 counties. In one and the other, there are crèches, on the same terms, but one, so to speak, is blocked, cannot be finished and receive children, and the other is well. The official who is subject to the services of the Polish State gives consent in one place, and in the other he does everything to block. Those who want to open this kindergarten, organize it, have a sense of some kind of stalking or something. I don't want to go into details because I'm not from that. This is what the institutions of the State are for. I would like to obtain from the Minister, if possible, information on how to make such situations possible. as little as possible. Because if there is money, there are opportunities, there is also the favour of the local government, then these crèches should be created as much as possible and this very small number of places should now increase. Parents who want to go to work who want to make money who want to take care of their family and have a safe place for their children, a marina for the time they're at work... The point is that these parents have a place like this in their own district or in their own community, close to them. If the Minister would be so kind, I would ask for brief information on this matter. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u229	Thank you very much. And you will be the last to speak, Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to Senator Duda's speech, to the conclusion of the speech in which he declared very clearly that the Civic Platform accepts the 500+ programme, that it has its ideas and is ready to improve the programme, while the programme itself appreciates it in various aspects, and therefore this programme is not at risk. I think it's important. It is not only what programs, what legal solutions we adopt that are important. In the area of family policy, it is extremely important that solutions are sustainable and that people feel that these programs will not fluctuate, that they can count, as the senator stressed... We start a child, then for 25 years this child is raised, we look after him, we put the child on it... and families want to be convinced that it's a solution or even a solution to family policy, supporting the family, will not be taken away. They want that conviction. That is why I consider this statement to be very important, because so far these statements and statements have been very different for months since the introduction of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to discuss today's law, which refers to five family support schemes, in the context in which I asked the question. And I asked this question consciously and with the conviction that we need to take this context into account This is because the expenditure on family policy has grown radically in the last 2 years, almost 100%. Of course, I would like to see it grow even more, but the budgetary possibilities of the state are limited. I once fought very hard to raise the income thresholds in terms of family benefits and also to increase family benefits. Today I agree to this solution, which is in this law and which is talking about freezing thresholds. Why? Because I can't ignore just how much money goes into family policy, and I can't ignore this program, which repeatedly exceeds the value of family benefits. These benefits for the first child are the smallest, with the next children growing slightly, but the program 500+ is however 500% , over 500% the amount of family allowance for the first child. And I have to take that into account. I am aware, and I think that everyone in this Chamber is aware that the budgetary possibilities of the state are limited. It is therefore a good thing that after a certain period of operation of this law, we are considering how to make it more flexible, where solutions can be put in place, which will be cost-effective and effective and will bring good results. As far as the various measures for families are concerned, many other solutions were adopted last year. E.g. A nursing allowance has been introduced, which can be obtained not only by one parent, as it was until recently, but by both parents, if there are two children with disabilities. It is also a programme of life, which two sessions ago the Senate considered and accepted, a programme which costs more than 500 million PLN. Last year was the year when the various solutions that favor families, ranging from the higher minimum wage to the minimum hourly wage, were adopted greatly. This is all we need to take into account, as part of today's discussion on family policy, on the solutions proposed by the government Because this is a government law, we have to take this into account. And that is also what I ask of the senators who are taking part in this debate, a debate that is extremely important. Of course, every program and every bill can be improved. Therefore, I am pleased that the solutions for the Large Family Charter are improved, through the introduction of various types of facilitations, concerning and obtaining them, and for the information to be wider, and for the It's a complete novum. The Big Family Charter, although only since 2019, could be used by all those who raised and maintained three children and more. This is an expression and a testimony of appreciation also for those parents who have already kept their children, but they have done some very important work. So that it is such a bow towards them, very specific, because they will be able to benefit from various possibilities thanks to these solutions. I am pleased that it is flexible, creating new opportunities when it comes to creating places in crèches. You spoke very clearly about these needs. Indeed, it takes a very clear movement in this direction to create these places. Of course, there was also a doubt at the committee meeting about one room in which children could be present. But it's not like it's gonna be a typical situation, it's probably gonna depend on the size of the group, which is the number of children, and whether the parents are going to give their consent. Because this law provides for the possibility of giving advice to parents who would go into a variety of issues, starting with the menu that will be served to children, and ending with the conditions under which these children are in daycare. I think that we have talked very little about this solution, and I would like to emphasise it. School councils in schools are very important, parents' advice that is foreseen here, in daycare I hope that this will also move to preschool environments, because this cooperation between the team in nursery or school team, since I have already replaced it, is extremely important with parents. So that on the one hand there is a whole spectrum of positive, good solutions that take into account this budgetary perspective and those of the state that are. On the other hand, we need to realise that as a result of the 500+ programme, which has caused some people to get out of social assistance and no longer get help, because there is no need for this programme, very many people have learned about the various forms of assistance they can benefit from, so applications are being made and these are applications that cost money. And indeed, the problem is that the number of different types of benefits received is increasing. These are also budgetary costs and that is what we need to take into account. To conclude, I would like to say that really the pro-family solutions in our country are developing so that it is more than 3% GDP... so that we can also anticipate development when it is possible that there are no reductions here. As I understand it, these legal arrangements are not a threat to the size of the gross national product that is allocated to the family. So that I hope it will serve Polish families well. At the same time, because we have been talking here about demographics very much and that today this programme does not have clear results, we need to realise that in order to be demographic growth, a lot of problems need to be solved. Today, we talked in one of the points about the program "Accommodation" and various programs, which are designed to encourage families to gain housing in Poland. But there is also another problem, the problem of sustainability of Polish families, which is very weakened. It is true that 1/3 of Polish children are raised in families where single parents raise children, and the average number of children in such families is one child, because children are very difficult to raise alone. In this respect, we must also take care of various aid solutions, not necessarily social ones, but such as marriage counseling, family counseling, mediation, many others, in order to ensure the sustainability of Polish families. I am not going to list all the solutions that are needed to make this demographic growth a reality, but I am pointing out that the social agenda itself, even as rich as 500+, is not enough. I would also like to mention something that is less tangible, but what is important is a certain social peace that gives families a sense of security, which also encourages their family to develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. We've got more calls for debate. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! When I heard that the government was reviewing the functioning of the family-friendly solutions, especially the 500+ programme, I received it, I admit, with great hope. First of all, because it should be a standard that we are reviewing how individual solutions work. And it's a good thing that's been done. However, when I saw the outcome of this review in the form of a bill, I must say that I was deeply disappointed. Because it's a review that doesn't, in terms of the 500+ programme itself, address these most difficult issues, doesn't try to resolve them at all. And other problems either leave out, like the situation of seniors in the family, or propose solutions that, instead of correcting, can complicate the situation of families. Above all, the 500+ programme is not an expression of social justice. Rich families often get a lot of money if their children are in them, even though they do not need it in a material sense or in any other way. All research shows that in wealthy families the financial stimulus is not pronatistic. Then why? Why are we publishing this? And at the same time, Mr. Senator, 100%. I agree with your statement. And I'm going to refer to this 1/3 single mothers who raise at least one child. For them, the income threshold below the lowest wage? Well, that's really incomprehensible. Why aren't you correcting this? Why is there no change here, this fundamental change, also with regard to children with disabilities? I really don't get it. Everyone would take it... Some would accept it with great relief, with great satisfaction, and others would not be worried. And I think the social feeling would be absolutely positive. There's nothing to gain from that. That's not what you're doing. Instead, you're proposing a sealing mechanism that I don't think is fair enough to put different life situations in one bag, putting suspects in the mix. also those who for various random reasons had first to resign from work with one employer and then take it again. But, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that is not the basic pathology of the availability of this programme. You can see how many people, how great is the growth... This was discussed at the committee meeting and today also how great is the increase in the number of single parents with one child. Why? Because there's the biggest need. And instead of eliminating this injustice, you want to use a tool that, I assure you, will be absolutely, completely ineffective. Because the way to get a witness is quite different, simpler, than the mentioned release. Of course, it's harder to hold. But is it worth catching him instead of facing the real need of families in which a single parent raises a child? Really? This is nonsense. Instead of chasing families, let's help them. You can help, if not entirely, with the use of a mechanism of gold for a zloty. I agree that he is difficult for social assistance centres, but this mechanism has finally been mastered. Instead of thinking about its liquidation, let us try to apply it here so that it is not as it has been for years in the case of family benefits, that due to permanent thresholds with income increases another group of potential healthcare providers will be excluded. You cannot criticize the Platform and the first government of Jarosław Kaczyński for being frozen thresholds, and keep them frozen further without using any mechanism. Moreover, in the same law, thawing the thresholds again freeze. It is really unfair to say that you have frozen, and this is an excuse that we are freezing too. Really. What kind of argument is that? Therefore, it seems to me that this review is too shallow in this respect. It does not address the main problems that this programme brings; it does not fix them in those places where it should necessarily be repaired; it does not respond to the most important needs for assistance from the 500+ programme. But he tries to rule out those who need it the most, to rule it out further and even more. It's sealed here, and the door's open there. You have $20,000 or $30,000, and you still deserve it. But if you're a single parent and you're trying to get 500 zlotys, then we're gonna be testing you and chasing you. That's your offer. Ladies and gentlemen, she is unacceptable. There are other issues in family policy that concern seniors. You're working, yes. Prof. Uścińska's working, but she's working on case law. This is important. This is the first step that might allow you to take the next step, but you need to take further steps. Nothing's proposed here. And what's going on with the nursery... Many things, Minister, are absolutely right. That's where we took the first step so it wouldn't be a health care facility. A lot of things have to be settled, and you're picking it up. Parents and many other things will be needed. Great, I'd say so. 80%. Unfortunately, however, I agree with the association "Solidarity" that when it comes to children's recreation, where health safety is concerned, concessions should not go too far. I understand the urge to have more day care. We're together here. We prided ourselves on how many of these daycare centers arrived. You're showing the other side of the coin, saying, okay, but much more needs to be done. Okay, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, It's just not half-centers. Not that one room is gonna pretend to be a nursery because it's gonna be an act. It's not gonna be a real day care. It's not gonna be what it is. So it seems to me that it would be good to maintain, for example, those amendments which were, and even better to accept, those which were proposed by And that we're trying to support. And the last point I'd like to raise. Minister, to make things right. Perhaps you need to speed up the implementation of 500+ benefits for families abroad You need to diagnose the causes well. And the minister didn't say anything about it, and he consistently said, "We're going to move and see if it's going to get better." Well, Minister, to make things better, you need to know what the reason is, why it's not a game, why it's not. Then you can hope for improvement. I don't really believe that moving it to the voivodship offices will actually make a difference unless it is. But I hope I'm wrong, that the state deliberately held back money for the regions, and now this money for the voivodships will be found twice this way. But it would really be a game of human fate. [[Mr. Senator...]] I hope this isn't a game. In any case, I am very concerned about whether these assumptions will be met, since you are not giving reasons for delays. Maybe after you've told the marshal, I'll end up thinking that the 500+ programme has brought relief to many families, but that money could be spent smarter, much more beneficial. Especially where help is most expected, where it is most difficult, in this 1/3 families with one child, where this one only parent Taking into account the situation of the maintenance fund It is forced to work and cannot get less than the lowest salary, so it is actually always excluded from this program. Now you could change it, you don't do it, I regret it. It's gotta be fixed. Do it in the next review.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u233	Thank you. Senator Orzechowska. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Until now, it always seemed to me that the opposition is there to show mistakes, but when something is done correctly to praise it, and you seem to be a total opposition that doesn't like anything. In the case of this law, you can also see that you do not like anything. It is known that no matter how much money to give, there will always be too little and there will always be someone unhappy, there will always be someone who will be lacking. I'm also one of those people who can afford to spend any money they get. I think any of us can boast about this situation. 500+ are not the only benefits that families get. The fact that families have received this additional benefit in the form of 500+ for the purpose of increasing their children has not taken away other benefits, i.e. families also receive family benefits, they receive scholarships, they receive maintenance benefits. Of course, single mothers or single fathers are certainly much harder to deal with than a full - family parenting situation. That's why their situation needs to be corrected, but it can't be done overnight. There's one fact that's bubbling me in this discussion. As far as I'm concerned, children are children until they're 18 years old. Here we often say that these children's benefits should be up to the age of twenty-five. We can extend them even more and it will be like in Italy: a 40-year-old orphan, because Mommy will die, Daddy will die and there will be a 40-year-old who will continue to learn or live at the expense of his parents. Let's give these young people a chance. If an 18-year-old is still studying, he gets scholarships, he can go to work... An 18-year-old citizen is already a citizen who actually has full voting rights. He can pick someone. Not much, he can run. This is the person who can start his own family, this is the person who can take a job. Let's stop making orphans out of those students who often, if they need money, work. No one has ever done as much for families as our current government. I think we should appreciate it. I think we should vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Martynowski and Rulewski senators. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 546 and the report of the Commission In print No 546 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee on 11 July, we discussed the law on amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The primary objective of the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer is to extend the protection of the claims of employees who have been deprived of employment due to the insolvency of the employer and to accelerate the provision of financial assistance in connection with the actual cessation of their activities by the employer. The most important changes include the extension of the reference periods between the termination of the employment relationship and the date of the employer's insolvency; the catalogue of payments from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund; the payment of advances on benefits. The current definition eliminates the subjective exclusion involving the employer's spouse, his own children, the children of the other spouse. The regulation contains one exemption for domestic assistance employed by a natural person. There is an extension of the reference periods between the termination of the employment relationship and the date of the employer's insolvency from 9 to 12 months. The catalogue of payments of unmet employee benefits will also cover equivalent benefits for unused leave for the year preceding the year in which the employment relationship ceased. The Act introduces a clear regulation regarding the payment of advances on future benefits which may be paid under insolvency conditions. In addition, there was an exemption from the relative charges in labour law cases for the recovery of claims arising from the implementation of the provisions on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. It occurs in cases where the value of the subject matter of the dispute exceeds the amount of PLN 50 000. During the legislative work, a proposal for an amendment was made, according to which Article. 1 in point 4, in Article. 12a in the mouth. In the first and third sentences, the words "false statements' are replaced by "false statements'. The Commission unanimously adopted the amendment and the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Very short. Thank you, senator, for your report. This particular bill did not give rise to any greater emotions at the committee meeting. This is an important bill. She extends the protection circle of employees' claims, who are in a difficult situation when the company is in bankruptcy so that it can be used. As the senator has already said, we extend the reference periods between the termination of the employment relationship and the payment of these benefits from 9 to 12 months. It's dictated, among other things. that, in many cases, the courts were unable to make a decision within 9 months. We extend this reference period so that the employee can benefit from it. The second point is that advance payments can be made. We are also able to count on outstanding parental leave when it comes to the possibility of receiving benefits. So that these solutions are pro-working. And I don't think there's gonna be a problem when it comes to adopting it. There is one amendment that the government supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up to speak. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Housing Cooperatives, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on Cooperative Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 551, and the report of the Commission In print No 551 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. At the same time, I thank the senator for his rapid movement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u240	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure dealt with the bill presented. The purpose of the Act is to bring the law in force into line with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In that law, the Commission relied on three specific judgments: 14 February 2012, 27 June 2013 and 5 February 2015. And basically only in this area... only this range was worked, ugly, and more elegantly. It's being held. No proposals, no amendments were tabled during the proceedings. Two comments from the Legislative Bureau were not supported by the government. It can also be added that this is a government submission, i.e. a submission which was preceded by a full form of consultation. The meetings of the committee were attended by outside organisations, co-operative representatives' organisations. It was reserved, which was reflected in the support of the majority of committees, that this particular law is merely a response to the alignment of the right with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In other words, this specific law does not address the whole scope of the changes which, in the field of cooperative law, many should consider. Following the vote, the committee recommends that the High House adopt this law without amendments. And in the vote... everyone in the vote was in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Staron. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u242	I'd like to ask a government representative in the rank of Vice Minister. I was surprised to hear here that this bill, this bill, is executing the rulings of the Court. Meanwhile, the bill... I was the representative of the Court and I know what the Court's rulings are, even if they were on 5 February 2015. In fact, you stated in your statement that the draft is implementing these judgments. The Court stated explicitly that persons who do not have rights to premises should not and cannot be members of the cooperative. This law, this project, provides for the retention of membership by persons who have rights to premises, but not much, because it also introduces the possibility to accept as members other persons who do not have any rights to premises. I would like the Minister to tell me something about this. Because that is absolutely the failure of the Court's ruling.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u243	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] According to the government and the Sejm, which has already adopted this proposal, the bill under review fully implements the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. We can, of course, approach different solutions with different attitudes, but this solution, as far as housing cooperatives are concerned, was, so to speak, accepted by lawyers from both the Government Legislative Centre and the legislative office of the Sejm. To date, members who have acquired membership rights shall retain them on the basis of acquired rights. They can only be new in such a situation: I date a cooperative because the cooperative has not yet been recruited for all members in relation to those premises that it wants to build... And first the government and then the Sejm decided that there must be a period during which this apartment or this potential apartment will be settled and a contract will be concluded with a member. A 12-month period was adopted for this... Of course, it can be discussed whether 12 months is sufficient or insufficient time. There was an attempt to make an amendment to make it a month, but the Sejm thought that the month was too short, because sometimes you have to arrange for yourself a loan, the cooperative must also have the right number of applications from those willing to build an apartment. So there must be a time when I want to be a member of the cooperative, but I don't have a place yet because this place... I have no agreement with the cooperative that these premises will definitely be built. So this is the time when such a person can expect to be a member of the cooperative. If this period of 12 months in this case passes and there is no agreement that this place will be allocated, then that person will lose his membership. And in our opinion, this filling... Well, our... I mean, the Sejm has assumed that this is the fulfilment of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. And if someone thinks that this is not the case, it can now only be implemented by means of an amendment. I maintain the position presented by the government, and it was adopted by the Sejm, who adopted the bill. Well, then the project, and now it's already a bill proceded by the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? [[I could have one sentence...]] Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u246	...in relation to the Minister's statement. I'm not gonna ask any more questions. But, Minister, do you realize that if this project were actually accepted by the senators, then... And there's a vacathio legis! Can you imagine how many of these so-called members. virtual, waiting, will be in Poland as, so to speak, teams that... Not only are they today, there will be more after that. And giving you the right to spend a year But it doesn't matter if it's a month or a year. They were still accepted... Well, it's regulated on one side. And as for the other side, there's not even a shadow of records in this project about what's going to happen to people who paid 100% for the premises and who don't have any debts. The Court has also expressed its views on this. He said that what's happening is pathology. But you don't solve it at all, and you don't take into account those people who should get their rights back. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: But...]] I'll say what I have to say about the project, but I think it's a waste of time to ask you questions. Thank you. [[Come on, Senator, what is it?]] [[Don't underestimate the minister... he may have a different opinion, Senator...]] Have you ever heard that answer? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Well, the senator has...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u247	Calm down, please. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u248	The senator has an opinion. Allow me to have another one. First you were talking about waiting members, and now you're talking about paying for the apartment. Well, that's different matter. Please check exactly which decision it refers to. About the factory apartments, so... [[Minister...]] ...no one expects the tenants of these premises to pay for the second time, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u249	Minister, I don't want to take up time, so in one sentence. On the one hand, you accept wholesale, publicly, those members who are already here today, sanctioning what the Court said was against the constitution, what it called pathology... Your Honor, please read this. You sanction it, you sanction it, because it's yours. The project probably... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: This is not my project. This is a government project. Excuse me.]] I think it's more of a review relationship that's been looking for these solutions for years. On the other hand, Minister... The Court also referred to this, asked what about people They're what we're talking about here. They paid, but in some time they lost their right to a place. We're talking about the people who paid the entire housing contribution, the tenants' apartments. These people have no obligations, and today they are in a situation where not only are they losing their homes, yet the cooperative can charge them fees as it wishes, two, three, four times as much as other so-called ordinary members. That's the dailyity of today, that's the way it is in every cooperative. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: But I would ask that the senator refer to a specific record. 'Cause that's the kind of debate we can...]] I'm referring to a specific record, to an article. 4 and Article 4 31, where you sanction this. There is no record at all, which concerns this second group of people, and this is several hundred thousand people in Poland. That's what I'm talking about: Art. 4 and Article 4 31. I'm really sorry. I don't want to take up time. The plot of these apartments... You said you didn't want money from these people for the second time. You want to make them pay again for the renovation that was made. You only consider the thermomodernization bonus. You're making them pay again for the repairs they've already paid for, and these are the people who, on the basis of the 1994 Act, should have a tenant's right to a place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u250	Ms Senator, as far as factory housing is concerned, the Court has made it clear that the tenants of these premises should pay the necessary and useful expenditure. This is the case with the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. We move this record to the bill, we write that they are to carry out expenditures necessarily and useful. This isn't about the value of an apartment that's... Each apartment may have a different value depending on the technical condition and location. Where the money was made... The cooperative must demonstrate what these expenditures were and has the right to request reimbursement of these expenditures. If such expenditure has not been made, there is a free transfer of ownership of this apartment to the tenant and he becomes a member of the cooperative. As long as he's not a member, he doesn't pay any other costs than rent. This is clear and consistent with the Court's ruling. I absolutely don't understand why... Well, you may have a different opinion, but the lawyers of the Sejm and the Government have decided that this is in line with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u251	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u252	Minister, we, as the Legislative Commission, have suspended the execution of these 2 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in respect of factory housing and as regards the status of co-operative, the issue of when this status is received. We are waiting for what draft cooperative law will be presented by the government, by you. My question is this: You've summoned a judgment on the housing estates. Well, before that sentence, it was that the tenant of a factory apartment taken over free of charge from a public figure... All he had to do was return the outstanding rent and become the owner or receive the status of a housing co-operative, he had legal personality. But now... I understand that the Court's judgments must be enforced. My question is this. Are the records that the Minister, the Ministry, proposes, which say that, in order for the tenant to become the owner of an apartment taken over free of charge by the cooperative, it is sufficient that he will pay back the necessary expenditures. As far as the legal formula is concerned, it is possible to define what is necessary. But in the act's record, which alarmed me in a special way, it may not be a conjunction, but something similar: it must return the necessary expenditures for the maintenance of the building and increasing the value of the building. Doesn't the minister say that this will cause cooperatives to be able to determine this value in any way? What increases the value of the building can be various elements. And here's my question. Isn't that a little slow? I'll admit that the Legislative Commission together with the Infrastructure Commission... When we thought about it, we feared that it might be an expense that would prevent tenants from acquiring ownership rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u253	As I said, Senator, we have almost literally adopted here the solutions proposed by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court went in that direction in the opinion that certain expenditures had to be reimbursed. This was the expectation and this was the direction indicated by the Constitutional Court, the direction in which the legislator was to go. And we went exactly that way. Of course, if there's a dispute, you can get on the court road. It's not out of the question either. This is a civil-law claim and this can be settled in a civil procedure in a court of law. If the cooperative wants too much and the tenant, who is to be a member of the cooperative, believes that the cooperative wants more than enough and is unable to demonstrate... If he can't prove his investment, he can't ask for it back. The tenant, a future member of the cooperative, is to be presented with an appropriate amount of these expenditures, they must be shown. And here's the civil law road. We do not deprive future members of the cooperative, and now tenants of the civil law road when it comes to establishing the correct value of the expenditure. 'Cause we're just talking about overlaps. It's gonna be hard to say, literally, to replace these outlays. They can be different. Of course, there is always a way of civil investigation and fixing the amount of these expenditures. [[Was it not enough just to put the necessary expenditures here? Was it necessary to add the wording and to increase the value of the building?]] Mr. Senator, there was a solution to this. We thought it was the right thing to do. As I said, it was accepted by the Government Legislative Centre and the Sejm. I don't mind finding a better solution. If the High Senate thinks that this record could be better, then I will certainly not object to such a record. Today, the matter of the decision is just like this. We think she's good, but no one's offered a better one. If it's better, I'll be as willing as I can to support it on behalf of the government, but first I need to know the content of the record. For now, there is only a certain demonstration of the existing record, so it is difficult for me to make a clear statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u254	Senator Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u255	Minister, one more question. You've provoked me a little by talking about acquired rights. Doesn't it bother you? This is about the acquired rights that these people have. That you deprive the owners of the right to decide whether they will be managed by cooperatives or by another entity? You don't mind Art. 26? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: But there is no obligation anywhere here. There's freedom on the part of the members everywhere.]] Minister, I'm sure you know... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: And please don't tell me I don't mind something, because it's not my personal project. This is a government project adopted by the Sejm.]] Minister, this article defines the minimum rights of these people. When the last person has a separate property, then by law it becomes a community. And these are rights rightly acquired, which today apply, including Article. 241. On the other hand, in this project that you submitted and which you are defending today, you are trampling on these acquired rights. It's against the constitution, because you're setting a separate period of three months so that you can say that you force these people, or I don't know what to do, so that the cooperative still has the management of the property. There's never been such a thing. This was not even the case, Minister, in ancient times, and in your project it was found. And one more word. Mr President spoke about the article. 48. You also said that this is the execution of the Court's ruling. I would just like to remind you that in 2008 there was such a judgment of the Court in which the Court referred to the so-called Punishment. And then all Members and Members of Law and Justice and Members of the Platform, all Members of the Sejm, understood that it was unfair that the people who paid 100% for their apartment, they should be owners, they should have such a right, and they changed it despite the ruling of the Court. Despite this ruling, all in agreement, the entire Sejm voted to maintain these rules. In contrast, in the article. 48, Minister... I emphasize that these people... It's the cooperative's fault that they don't have a cooperative tenant's right to a place. Because another law has already been in the article since 1994. 9 ordered all cooperatives to give them this status. ♪ Then without grace ♪ There would be an art. 12 and they'd be owners. You are ordering these people to pay, as you pointed out by the President, once again for the things they have paid for. Because for the renovations and the expenditures you're talking about, they paid in the so-called. rent. They shouldn't be tenants, they were tenants, but they already paid for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u256	Once again, I can say that Parliament has decided that, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the cooperative has the right to require the tenant to pay back the necessary expenditure. And what I just said for the second time, Senator, I can repeat 10 times: The Sejm has decided that this is the execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is difficult to refer to what was before, whether or not someone was disqualified. You're calling for 2008. I repeat once again: the Sejm felt that this was the right solution. The question of real estate management, about who's going to decide... It's just a way to meet expectations. We had such letters and expectations of members of the cooperative. There are those who want community rules in this area, then a community is formed, but there are also such... And here's the freedom. If they want, they can vote that she's still running the cooperative, because it wasn't possible before. We're just giving permission. We give permission to members of the cooperative or former members who own, that the cooperative can manage this building. If they don't want to, they won't, if they don't make a decision for three months, then the community law automatically comes in... the civil code. And if this decision is made... This is a very short period. There must be a lot of mobilization for these people to make that decision at the time. If they do not, of course there are general provisions, namely those relating to the community. But if they want to... Well, there's gotta be most, right? Well, how to give people more freedom... [[They must want to.]] Yeah, they have to want to, they have to vote the majority to run the cooperative. So I don't see any violation of anyone's rights here, it's just giving permissions that members can use or not. If they want it, they'll benefit if they don't want it, they won't benefit. As I say, a lot of people, members of the cooperative, came to us, why we deprive them of choice, because they want to have a choice. And in a very short period of time, they have this choice and we don't take anything from them. If the majority does not decide, then of course it will be the same as before. Nothing's gonna change here. If she wants most of it... Well, if you don't trust the majority, that's fine, there's no other solution. Well, most of them will decide. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u257	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[Yes.]] Yes. There you go, Senator Napieralski. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I think it's worth asking you questions, and it's time to...]] [[Excuse me.]] [[Okay, I'll take a break. Please welcome your guests.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment on behalf of the Senate, I would like to warmly welcome Mr. Vice-President of the House of Councillors of Japan, His Excellency Akira Gunji, along with his accompanying delegation. I also welcome your Japanese ambassador to Poland, Mr Shigeo Matsutomi. We are very pleased to welcome you to the Polish Senate during our official visit to Poland. [[Everybody up.]] [[Applause]] We're back on track. You're asking Senator Napieralski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I believe that time in this Chamber is not lost and it is worth asking you questions today. The bill is important. It's important. The cooperative movement, not just the housing movement, is a very important issue in our country and not only. It is not only a matter of tradition, but also that it affects the most important areas of our lives. At this stage, I have two general questions to the Minister and one specific question related to this law. Minister, I'll start with general business. Does the government provide for such a comprehensive review of cooperative law? That's one thing. And second question. So, is he in the government's intention, e.g. preparation of systemic changes in cooperatives, especially housing cooperatives? Because it is her, as you can see in this room, that arouses the greatest emotions and provokes a rather extensive discussion. Now I'm going back to the bill we're investigating. Minister, in the course of work, also at the level of the government, but then in Parliament, in the Sejm, as well as in the Senate, various solutions and amendments appeared. I have such a specific question for you. In your opinion and knowledge, is it possible for the bill to enter into force if all these amendments were taken into account by the senators if they had appeared... According to your knowledge and your opinion, is it possible to postpone the date of entry into force of the law so that housing cooperatives can prepare themselves freely for this? The point is not to make a fuss, because this confusion could have a very bad impact, especially on those who live, who are connected to the housing cooperative on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u259	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u260	As regards the general statement that the senator asked about, yes, the National Housing Programme contains a provision stating that in 2018 there will be a thorough analysis of the existing provisions of the Housing Cooperatives Act, which is our responsibility, but also of cooperative law, which also applies in this respect. Then, also after examining the functioning of this amended law, we want to make a thorough review of the rules and to propose to the Sejm a revision of the rules if this analysis results in such a necessity. I don't rule that out. I think it's worthwhile to analyze the rules at any time. These changes will also start to apply, the provisions relating to the vetting, etc. will be amended. We want to see how this works. So that we envisage such a comprehensive review, analysis and possibly making proposals for changes, including the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Justice, as regards cooperative law, because some of the provisions will also need to be amended. And the second question just slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u261	I repeat, Minister, there is no problem. It's very detailed. If this were the case, that during the work on the bill, today, in this discussion or in the committee meeting, there were amendments... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes, yes...]] ...is there any way to extend that time? Because when you talk to the representatives of the cooperative movement, they say, okay, if this is adopted by Parliament, then we will adapt to it, only on many issues will we have to make a lot of changes. And the point is to prepare people for it, prepare regulations or work of a housing cooperative, so that it doesn't end with harm for people, because someone can't do something because there's so little time for it. Would it be possible then to simply extend the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u262	The Act provides for the entry into force of the provisions after a period of 3 months, with a few exceptions. It seems to me that this is a sufficient period, because the text has been for a long time, so to speak, known to the widely understood cooperative movement. I don't think there's gonna be enough time for that around here. Those rules that come into force... I don't see any danger here. As a representative of the government, because, once again, I do not represent my position here. In connection with which it would be necessary to extend this time. But there were also no such voices, they did not reach at least the ministry, the departments that deal with it, the voices that there was a short period of vacathio legis. If there is a proposal in this regard, I am open because I represent the Minister of Infrastructure, but we did not have such votes. [[Can I ask you one more question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u263	Yes. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u264	That's another question, Minister, if you don't mind. Here's my question. Especially in the context of this morning's discussion, when we were talking about housing programs, and the whole discussion that went on in this room, I don't want to repeat it here... But in this context, I would like to ask, because the issues concerning the housing programme and cooperation with cooperatives have emerged in your statement, including in the rapporteur's statement. And there's this one recipe. I'll talk about it in my speech. - which, if the amendment of the Sejm were accepted by the Senate, would lead to very large changes in staff. It's really about the vetting of housing cooperatives. And if this provision had been introduced, it would have happened that cooperatives would simply not have been able to prepare or train people, i.e. there would not have been properly trained people who could carry out such an illustration. And in such a case, if this record were simply maintained, it would be possible for example. by another 3 months or by some other date extend the entry into force of this law so that cooperatives can prepare themselves well and reliably?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u265	It's hard for me to be clear here. We're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... we're... At the last moment, an amendment was tabled in the Sejm, which was accepted by the majority of the House. It has not yet reached us, to the government's signals from the review unions that there may be some problems with it, so that I do not know whether they will actually be. Previously in the case of a longer period of vacathio legis there were no such notifications, now this period has been It is specified that those provisions will enter into force from 1 January 2018. We didn't get any signals from any of the audit relationships. or a cooperative union. There were phone calls, but I didn't drive them... Some Members have found that large cooperative societies do not see problems, but there are small regional associations that also carry out the mirroring, and they fear that indeed this amount of mirrors excluded from the mirroring can be so large that there may be a problem with these mirrors. But for now, there are signals that... Several Members, so to speak, received such signals in a telephone call. Officially, no cooperative organization has ever asked us that this might be a problem. Indeed, quite a large part of the mirrors will be excluded. Except there were two directions in the Seym debate. One direction was that we should further tighten the existing rules and exclude members of the family members of the board and persons directly subject to... And the second direction was to narrow down the existing rules so that only members of the board would be involved, but to make sure that there were no other people... So that these are two opposite directions. It was maintained as it was, only this vacathio legis was shortened. For now, like I said, there was no indication that it could cause any problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u266	Are there any further questions? I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Minister just said that the cooperative movement is behind this bill. I absolutely deny it. All the organizations I've talked to It is enough to see the letters sent by various organisations to Parliament. They're against this bill. This is a project that should never see the light of day. This is a law that really has nothing to do with the execution of a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. I am talking about the judgment because the majority of the law concerns the judgment of 5 February 2015. I have been a representative of the Group of Members and I know that it is indeed difficult for years to amend these provisions. It is very difficult because on one side there are co-operatives who do not have political facilities, who are actually pensioners, and very often poor people, and on the other side is organized, very efficient group. This is a review union, this is the National Cooperative Council. They are much stronger and have money because they have raised millions of zlotys for this purpose. That is why it was so difficult to change it in the Sejm and that is why we went to the Constitutional Court. We wanted the Court to see that members of the cooperative are deprived of fundamental fundamental rights. The first thing the Court has decided... The Court has confirmed all our allegations. It's about getting a membership with the place. Today's the day, ladies and gentlemen... This is really about millions of people. They're not individuals. In the coming days you will decide their fate, their wealth, their lives. We see what it all looks like down there. The first thing decided by the Court was to tie the right to the premises with membership. Today, unfortunately, if someone is a member of the cooperative and at some point in life, e.g. Because of the financial difficulties... But it's not just about financial problems. It may be that someone is too inquisitive and e.g. He often goes to the board where he asks about things. That's a lot of situations. And then there's the possibility. exclude him from the cooperative. What's causing this? If such exclusion is effective, its consequence is the loss of the right to the premises. And such a person, I stress this, Mr. Senator, even though she paid for her apartment, that it is fully paid, that the so-called. Apartment contribution... This is about 100% construction costs. That person paid the cooperative. The co-op didn't put a dime in it. And such a person loses his right to a place. What are the consequences? If the cooperative board goes to court with an action, that person will have an eviction. There are thousands of evictions like this in the country, tens of thousands. It's okay that the man paid. It's okay that he paid for his place. He's just losing his roof over his head. There's a lot of families like that. I can cite examples of such families. One of them, ladies and gentlemen, is on the brink right now. She has no debts, no debt, but she's out on the street because the Sejm has passed this bill. There's a need for reflection here. What's on the other side? On the one hand, we have people who don't have the right to a place, and on the other hand we have the so-called. members waiting, virtual members who are thousands. In the project, we sanction everyone, these thousands, these teams who come to meetings and vote as the president tells them to, sometimes giving him life in government. If this project legitimizes... No, he goes on, he says, we're not just sanctioning at this point zero. It's about vacatio legis when the bill comes in. But we're still taking new ones, not those who have a right to a place, but we're taking new ones who come forward, and we're giving them a year. Well, here you go, year one, year two, year five. This has nothing to do with the execution of the Court's ruling. The Court said you have the right to an establishment. The derivative of this right is membership. This is the first issue that is extremely important. But he also said another point, and in the operative part. I'll even quote it: the fulfilment of the additional conditions indicated this, i.e. the contribution declared in the statement of shares and contributions, as well as other possible statutory conditions, may not be a constitutional condition upon which membership is subject. That's what the Court said. I'm quoting this from the Court's operative part. What else did the Court say? He said about these people: you have a place, you're a member, you don't have a place, you're not a member. But he also spoke of an important issue that we have raised. Because he thought the laws I'm talking about were against the constitution. He said about a very important matter, he said: you also have the right to your money. If you've put it aside for the renovation fund, he pointed it out. And these are special measures, they belong to you, the cooperative should return them. She didn't use it, she returns it; you quit the cooperative, you deserve the money. Today, on the basis of these non-constitutional provisions, we have judgments, even in the case of Łódź and the cooperative Red Market, where people lost 500 thousand PLN. They lost because that's the law, the law against the constitution. What else is in this project that I stress Doesn't it have anything to do with the execution of the Court's ruling? Minister, I don't want to use strong words because I hope these amendments I'll make because I know I have more time. And which I'm going to say, you're going to accept, so I'm not going to use words like that. However, I never expected that a project could come out that would reverse cooperatives not even to the Polish People's Republic, as I said, to some deep... some of the things that are in the project weren't even before. We're taking the money. In the 21st century, we take people's money. The renovation fund doesn't belong to you. You said here, I think by confusing the administration with the board, because administration and management are different... And it's not a choice. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 241 is a matter of choice, Minister. In contrast, in the article. 26 is completely different. But you're imposing... Where the cooperative doesn't have any property anymore, not a single place... There aren't even rules today. Here are the rights acquired. But in your project, you impose it. The Lord says: please, think about it, because the cooperative is better. Well, that's not even today, it wasn't even before. I'll mention those factory apartments again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what another law says, and it's in the article. 9, since 1994. All the apartments that used to be factory apartments... These are usually apartments in Silesia, although not only because there are different bets. I have a plant in Olsztyn, which previously belonged to OZOS, where 18 buildings were taken over completely free of charge. A group took over, formed an association. It's an awfully unfair bill, too, but she was voted out when Mrs. Blida was Minister. People, despite the fact that these apartments worked out, created a fund, paid for it, today they have to pay market value. And those apartments that went to the cooperative, so to speak, colloquially... At that time, there was a law that spoke in the article. 9 that the cooperative should establish a cooperative tenant right to the premises. If they had this cooperative right, if the board had done what the law said, it wouldn't be a problem, they could be owners today. Meanwhile, this is the solution, this article. 48, he's making these people pay again today. I'll tell you what that fee is. It means that this ministerial project, the Ministry of Infrastructure, is a project that tells them, even though they participated and paid for the renovation... The Ministry says, "You have to pay again." Well, maybe we'll give you a little bonus, but it's just what you put in the bonus. And the rest? The bonus is 25%. And the rest, 75%. ? Pay up. Again. So this is it. I wonder... It was also about the housing program here. Minister, I made that notification to the CBA because I'm wondering. Here's the thing. You probably know this company based in Gdansk, in a cooperative apartment, 5 000 capital. This social movement of yours, because the social movement he consulted, these are the review unions and the National Cooperative Council... Social movement already to the cooperative, he sent to all the cooperatives the information that the beneficiary, who will be the owner of this project... [[Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done. That's the little girl. So that's what it looks like. But I'll tell you about the amendments, Mr. Marshal, how you're gonna give me the floor again. Just, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read a few sentences at the end. I found them on some forum where there was a short note after the Sejm voted on this bill. I don't even know who that is, whether it's a man or a woman, signed or signed Emma. And she writes yes, it's a few sentences: "It's depressing when we directly see people passing the worst sentence on a huge group of ordinary, more or less conscious, co-operatives. And in matters of the utmost importance. Bored faces... [[Senator, get to the bottom of this. You'll have the right to extra time.]] Two sentences, I'm almost done. Bored faces, relaxed, even loosened poses... They vote as they were told, taking no responsibility for the effects of their targeted or even thoughtless actions. Do they know how much they hurt helpless people? Do they even have any human consciences? Is there anything other than money that can change their thinking and behaviour? I am helpless to ask what country and society we are living in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u268	Thank you, Senator. The floor will now be delivered by Senator Crowd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u269	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not going to be emotional, I'm just going to present the facts that occurred yesterday and the results of which I want to show you. Yesterday, there was a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure in which I, as a guest, did not speak. Seven or eight union representatives were invited to the committee meeting, or rather... These are in fact not unions, they are associations of cooperative members who believe that the present form of cooperative law is neither satisfactory nor fair to them. I mean, after all that... I mean, the committee meeting was the day before yesterday. I'm sorry. Yesterday I invited the same people, maybe there were already 9 of them, I called a meeting of a group that I formed three months ago, it's a group that deals with cooperative law. In general, these representatives of the residents A large part of them, half of them came from Warsaw, but they were also from other major cities, and they presented me with proposals for amendments which, according to them, could dispel their doubts about the government project. At first these were 4 amendments, followed by another 2, in total I would like to present to you 6 of these amendments. I would just like to add that, yesterday, this whole group of co-operatives, members of cooperatives, representing various cooperatives, I had an agreement with the legislator, Aldona Figura, who gave an opinion on these amendments. The opinion says more or less that none of the amendments go beyond the scope of the amendment tabled by the Ministry. Some of them, practically 4, do not change the relationship between the various articles to any extent, only 2 require minimum refinement with the other articles of the ministerial proposal. Let me read them quickly. Amendment 1. Art. Point 1 of Article 1 3 (1) (a) 1 is replaced by the following: "A cooperative member may be a natural person, even if he has no legal capacity or limited legal capacity, which is entitled to a cooperative tenant's right to a residential establishment, a cooperative ownership right to an establishment, a right to separate ownership of a premises or an exhibition of any of these rights or as the founder of a cooperative.' I'll give you a reason right away. As a result of the judgment of 5 February 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 and 3 of the Housing Cooperatives Act of 15 December 2000, in so far as it allows the membership of a housing cooperative of entities which do not have a cooperative tenant's right to an establishment, a cooperative ownership right to an establishment, a right to a separate ownership of the premises or an exhibition of a separate ownership of the premises, is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. Following the proposed repeal of the Article. 4 of the draft law, print no. 1624, it is necessary to amend the wording of this provision. Amendment 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 of Article 1 3 (1) (a) 3 is replaced by the following: "Member of the cooperative may be a legal person who has a cooperative right to an establishment or a right of separate ownership of the premises or an exhibition of any of these rights or who is the founder of the cooperative. Rationale: also in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 5 February 2015 it was decided that Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 and 3 of the Housing Cooperatives Act of 15 December 2000, in so far as it allows the membership of a housing cooperative of entities which do not have a cooperative tenant's right to an establishment, a cooperative ownership right to an establishment, a right to a separate ownership of the premises or an exhibition of a separate ownership of the premises, is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. Following the proposed repeal of the Article. The 4th draft of the act "Print No. 1624'becomes necessary to change the wording. Amendment 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 2, in Article. In paragraph 31, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 3 the words '12 months' are replaced by '3 months'. The members of the cooperative shall cease to be members of the cooperative three months after the date on which the members of the cooperative are admitted if the member of the cooperative does not conclude a contract for the construction of the premises referred to in Article. 10 or Article. 18, or an agreement to establish a cooperative tenant's right to housing. And justification. The aim of the amendment is to reduce from 12 months to 3 months the duration of membership of the cooperative members who have not concluded a building agreement or an agreement to establish cooperative tenant law. This will limit situations where members of cooperatives who have the right to decide on its matters remain random persons who may not enter into a contract for the construction of the premises, popularly known as waiting members. In Amendment 4, the new Article is replaced by the following: Point (14) of Article 1 48. Paragraph 1 is At the written request of the tenant of the cooperative dwelling, which before the acquisition by the housing cooperative was the residence of a state enterprise, a state legal person or a state organizational unit, the cooperative is obliged to conclude an agreement with him on the transfer of ownership of the premises after it has... I now point 1: • payment of debt in respect of benefits arising from the lease contract; • point 2: • payment of a building contribution. And lithium. a: 5% the replacement value of the premises calculated on the basis of the conversion rate of the replacement cost of 1 m2 of the usable area of residential buildings announced by the voivodships pursuant to the Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants if the housing cooperative purchased the building free of charge; lit. b: which is the amount determined by the management of the cooperative in proportion to the usable area of the occupied premises resulting from the value of the purchase price at market value of the building where the cooperative purchased the building for consideration. However, the General Assembly may adopt a resolution on the rules for granting and the amount of the reduction from the amount referred to above. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2. Payments referred to in paragraph 1. 1 point (2) (a) a and b, the housing cooperative records in the account of the real estate repair fund in which the premises are transferred in separate ownership. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3. The request referred to in paragraph 1. 1 shall also be entitled to a person close to the tenant referred to in paragraph 1. 1. This claim is subject to this inheritance. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4. The housing deposit included in the building contribution shall be valued at the rate calculated as the amount of the deposit lodged and the average wage in the year in which the deposit was paid. The amount of the fined deposit shall be the product of the valuer and the average wage in the year preceding the transfer agreement of the separate ownership of the premises. Where such a bail is higher than the construction contribution to be paid, the paid surplus of the housing cooperative shall be returned to the tenant. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5. The remuneration of a notary for all notarial activities performed when concluding the contract referred to in paragraph 1. 1 and the legal costs of the perpetual accounting procedure shall be borne by the tenant to whom the cooperative transfers ownership of the premises. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6. The remuneration of a notary for all notarial activities performed when concluding the contract referred to in paragraph 1. 1 is equal to 1/4 of the minimum remuneration for the work referred to in the Law of 10 October 2002 on minimum remuneration for the work. In the explanatory memorandum: the rules for the redemption of old premises proposed in the amendment are in accordance with Article. 6 Act of 15 December 2000 on the rules for the disposal of housing owned by state-owned enterprises, certain commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury, public legal persons and certain housing owned by the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u270	Mr. Senator, time's up. [[I'll finish... thank you.]] Mr... [[I'll finish with the second pitch.]] You'll finish in the second round. Okay, thank you. Now you have the floor, Senator Napieralski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would say a little bit about history, because sometimes when you listen to different statements, and especially attacks on individual cooperative movements and on various forms of this cooperative movement in Poland, it has the impression that everything happened recently and that everything that is related to cooperative movement is the same evil. And I remind you that the cooperative movement was created in the 19th century and has a very long history also in Poland. If I remember correctly, the oldest housing cooperative was founded in Toruń at the beginning of the 20th century, in 1902, and still exists today and has built several thousand apartments. I'm showing these examples by saying this: it's really a very interesting idea that brings people together to help them, and it really comes from the idea of helping people who are weaker by getting together in groups. And even if there is a pathology or something bad in some cooperatives or cooperative movements, we can't generalize it and destroy the entire cooperative movement just because someone there was just taking care of their own business or doing something wrong. Changing the Housing Cooperatives Act is so important... And I am very pleased with the Minister's declaration that there will be a comprehensive assessment, because the cooperatives, i.e. the presidents, the vice presidents of housing cooperatives know exactly that some of the records need to be changed, because the world around us is changing. Today we live in a completely different world than 20 years ago. Today, when you build an apartment, it's very important that this apartment is wired to be fast internet, so that there are completely new technologies used to build such apartments. There used to be no such thing. But when we look at housing cooperatives, we see it exactly: if there is a good management and if people are involved in cooperative activities, then the cooperative is really flourishing. Then it's easier to repair the elevator, it's easier to replace the windows, even if the buildings are old or warm these buildings. It's cheaper, it's easier because someone can do it, someone manages it, and people really agree to it. I would also like to ask you, during this discussion and during the vote on the amendments, to take into account that it is not so that housing cooperatives are particularly residential, because they are the ones that are most often spoken of and they are the ones that arouse the most emotions. It is a relic of the past, something that was related only to that system, i.e. to the Polish People's Republic, because it is not true. As I said before, the cooperative movement originates in general from outside our country, but also in Poland it has been for many, many years. It existed before World War II or even before World War I and has really deep traditions. In context... I'll get back to my question. In the context of this morning's discussion, when we were talking about a very important program for building apartments... If, in fact, housing cooperatives are to be involved in this programme and there will be cooperation here, it will be good. That's what I think. It is a good thing that the cooperative movement is involved in this because, first of all, we will have control of it, and secondly, this programme will be more efficient. There are really a lot of apartments to build, and housing cooperatives, let's face it, have very good experience in this matter. They know all this because they do it because they build apartments. I call on us, while working on the bill, to try to break the rations. If mistakes are actually made, is there anything wrong with eliminating such opportunities in these regulations? The point is that the bad guy in the wrong place doesn't make mistakes. Let us try to draw up rules that will allow cooperative boards to actually work and develop fairly, but also give protection and security to the people who live there. Let them know that in a difficult situation they can always count on someone. If you don't mind, I'll allow myself to make three very short amendments. They absolutely do not go beyond the bill and were consulted with our Legislative Office. They're absolutely correct. The first amendment concerns what cooperatives often talk about. She's actually clarifying that a proxy can't replace more than one member. It's about not building any corporations. Or someone who doesn't walk around collecting power of attorneys, and then cares about unknown interests, you don't know who, because that's the kind of danger that's gonna happen. Someone may delegate their proxy, but I'm posting the person I'm posting. That's the end of it. And that's an amendment. I'm not gonna read it anymore so I don't waste any more time. I'm gonna let you put it together today. The second amendment concerns what I was talking about by asking the Minister. If that were the case... There is a proposal to delete and clarify the provision. It's about controlling or, as we say, mirroring. Tonight is actually... The cooperative movement has prepared a very large crowd of people to control what is happening. Of course, there may be reservations or various comments about this, but if it were to be as proposed by Members today, that people working directly with the Boards will not be able to do it, I will propose a third amendment, which is like extending this time. The Minister also spoke about this. And it allows us to return to the project that the government has proposed. Why? If this were to happen, if the Senate were to appeal not to do so. And then, you have to know, cooperatives will have to prepare for that, and another group of well-educated people will have to be prepared after exams. Today's story is that those who are mirroring are prepared for it after specialized exams. Of course, they work for contract-order, which is cheaper and simpler for housing cooperatives, and also lowers operating costs. So if it really happened that this amendment would be maintained, I would very much ask that we be able to extend this time. These corrections, Mr. Marshal, I'll put them on your hands. You're welcome. Thank you so much for your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u272	Thank you. This is the second time Senator Staroń has a voice, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no need to be surprised by the emotions. I see people every day. We're fighting for people like this in court. Who just hit the pavement. Now we have the case of Mrs. Marzena, who has two children. The boy's gonna be on his M.O. next year. They have an eviction sentence, and they have no debt. And emotions are because there's harm here. This is injustice, this is simply the unconstitutionality of the rules. This is done on the basis of the rules that the Court has decided are incompatible with the Constitution. I really hope these regulations... I spoke with President Jarosław Kaczyński and he said that these tabled amendments would be supported. I hope that this project, which the Senate is voting over, will actually be a project that will ensure elementary justice, that it will be a project that will not take away dignity, but which will restore dignity to these people, restore their wealth, restore such elementary fundamental rights, and above all will execute the ruling of the Court and they will not only lose their roof over their heads, but will have such a small, elementary opportunity, but as every citizen in our country has, really normal functioning. I'm putting in the hands of a Marshal of amendments that are merely executing the ruling of the Court and which have been reviewed by the Legislative Bureau. And most importantly, it's a bond: you have a place You are a member, you have the right to money, if you have raised this money on a repair fund, you have the right to have any influence on what is happening in the cooperative. There is also a transitional provision. As far as those who were excluded are concerned, they will have the right, because they paid for the apartment, have no debt, get back membership and the right to stay. And that's in the transitional provision. I really do have a request, and I hope, first of all, that the senators should really look at those citizens who are affected by these laws and that millions of citizens will lean on it. The senator said that pathology is in individual cooperatives. I don't know if he's single or not. But that's not the point of talking. The conversation is that non-constitutional rules, which are not in accordance with the Constitution, have caused people to be deprived of fundamental rights: the fundamental right to property, the fundamental right to dignity, the fundamental fundamental right to influence their lives and their assets. And we are the law of this project, whose solutions should be in line with the Constitution, we should simply restore them. Thank you very much... [[How many of these corrections?]] [[Voice from the room: 100.]] 33 points. But, uh... [[Thank you, Senator.]] I'm sorry, I'm just gonna say one more sentence. [[Well, we want to know...]] They're a consequence. 'Cause, you know, like... amendment to Article. 3, which tells you who might be a member, which is whoever has cooperative... et cetera... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We'll find out at the committee meeting.]] And then the consequence of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u274	Thank you, Senator. Senator Crowd will speak for the second time in five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u275	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm already going to limit myself to reading only the two amendments I have left. I will not read the broad justifications, as the justifications will be analysed by the Committee on Infrastructure. The remaining amendment is the fifth. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 in point 1 is within the scope of Article. The additional paragraph 41 is replaced by the following:.§41. In the case of a sample examination of housing cooperatives, the illustrator may not be a member of the management board or supervisory board of any housing cooperative, procurent, Liquidator, or employed or providing services to any housing cooperative, the chief accountant, legal adviser or lawyer. This prohibition shall also apply to loved ones within the meaning of Article. 115 §11 of the Law of 6 June 1997 of the Criminal Code The relevant Official Journal of the said persons and to other persons, where those persons or their immediate relatives are directly subject to a member of the Management Board or the Liquidator. The National Cooperative Council shall make available on its website and keep up to date a register of persons who have been granted an authorisation to carry out the tests. The published data shall include the name and place of the mirror. Briefly. This justification is to increase the transparency of the examination. I do not believe, unlike my predecessors, that the present mirrors are well educated and prepared, because they are often people with even basic education and who have high functions in various cooperatives. [[It's a good basic...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Another issue is the transparency of the mirror register. This will allow ordinary members of cooperatives to control the implementation of the provision, as members of cooperatives are entitled to assess the work of all bodies in the organisational structure of the cooperative movement. And last amendment, sixth. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 is replaced by the following: "Membership of a person who is a member of a housing cooperative who does not have a cooperative tenant's right to a residential establishment, cooperative ownership right to an establishment, a right of separate ownership of the premises, an exhibition or who has not entered into a contract for the construction of the premises referred to in Article. 10 or Article. 18th Act as amended by Art. 1 or an agreement to establish a cooperative tenant's right to housing shall cease within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. Clou is the six-month deadline here, the rest is the same as in the government project. And lips. 2: A cooperative in the same paragraph. 1 shall carry out all necessary steps to establish the current register of its members. In general, it is a matter of ensuring that persons who are members of a housing cooperative on the date of entry into force of this Act are, I would say, verified by the cooperative, so that there are no situations in which the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will not be carried out as regards the state before the entry into force of the law, but only after its entry into force. It is therefore proposed that the membership of persons who do not fulfil the conditions for membership be terminated under this Act within 6 months of its entry into force. That's it. I'll just add one, two sentences. I used to do cooperative work, I graduated from postgraduate management studies, and I'm also a real estate manager with rights and licenses. I myself led to the transformation of over 1 thousand 200 cooperative premises into separate property, which was an event in those days. It was many years ago. I believe that any amendments to the subject matter of cooperative law have nothing to do with modern needs. Like the previous speakers, I believe that work should already be started on a comprehensive law on strict housing cooperatives, not cooperative societies at all. That's all. Thank you, and I place these amendments on the hands of the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rooster's voice now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I'd like to apologize for the behaviour of some senators. I also mean, Mr. Senator... [[Oh, I'm so sorry.]] I'm sorry, but I'm speaking in general, I'm speaking in general. Minister, I have been thoroughly reviewing all these judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The first sentence was from 2012. Senator, you've been 3 terms with the P.O. I read it, tracked it down with Mr. Jankowski... Why has nothing been done for five years so that the Constitutional Tribunal, which raised objections, would be... I really know that you were introducing... And that's why we've been waiting for the first time. With Senator Gogach to get him in... Because we knew there was a government project. I mean, really, you can exchange ideas without insulting anyone. You know, I'm facing all the parliamentarians, the ladies and senators, because I know that many of them help people in need, and they're doing it in secret, not to have public applause. I've spent my whole life helping people, doing it in secret. This is the gospel: lock yourself in four walls and help a man. I'm really hurting the fate of those people who are being evicted. As a man of solidarity, I once worked on the bill for the first time. On restructuring, commercialisation and privatisation of PKP. And there was a huge fortune in the stock of factory housing. And I can tell you publicly that we made the perfect record that up to 5% of the value of the apartment the railroads bought... Sometimes, Dear Lords, the notary took more money because the company paid more than the value of the apartment. I can assure everyone that, at the committee meeting, we will certainly touch upon all amendments that do not go beyond the scope of this law. We will consider all the amendments and if they are beneficial for the tenants, I will certainly raise I can speak for myself. I'll raise my hand for you. And I'm against going through the back door too. I don't know what these amendments are. Maybe a bill that's been filed... And we, together with the Legislative Commission, are considering this. Minister, I really thank you for taking this subject, because it shows that what my government, the Government of Law and Justice says is that the good of man first, that we are taking these actions... Because there was time, it was 5 years, Senator, since 2012... It was enough year and good will to introduce these recommendations of the Court. I was also, like you, on Mrs. Jaworowicz's show about mining apartments. The point was, the smart guys were buying out factory apartments, the smart guy was throwing people out on the street... Because it's done that way that you raise your rent, and if you don't, you turn off the light, you cut off the water, you make a man leave the apartment. And for the sake of the tenants, I'm sure I'll make a committee... Dear Lords, Minister, and the Legislative Office, and you, and I'm sure all the senators will get all the corrections. I'm not gonna make it out of rape, I'm just gonna hand it over to you to get acquainted with them, and we're gonna solve this problem with our consciences, this drastic problem. Because I agree with Senator Napieralski. The cooperative movement is all over Europe and even worldwide. But even in Austria, Germany or Switzerland, farmers gather together in cooperative movement, so that they have agricultural machinery to actually make it cheaper to use the land, and it's not like there's a big fee and, just like us, everyone has a tractor. But I won't go into details. Minister, thank you for your really great work. I think we can solve this problem without arguing. Dear Lords, I will say yes, I will definitely say: thieves must be locked up, poor people must be helped, but people must also be respected for their views, because the Minister is the constitutional minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland, Law and Justice, and he is not a boy to be beaten. You go out and you say you don't realize... And I go out and say five years of waiting. Why wasn't this done? Why wasn't this done? Why? Dear Lords, not in public, and I have been taught one thing: in the first place is man as an subject and the welfare of the citizens, and you, son of the way That's what my father told me. You're in second place. And my father taught me one thing. Simple peasant, simple peasant, wonderful my dad, kept telling me this: focus on solving the problem and be really calm, and not in the light of the media, solve problems, because it won't solve the problem. Minister, I ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure: review these amendments, all the amendments, and Senator Staroń, and Senator Potoniczny, and Senator Napieralski, to really determine whether they are in line with the matter of the law adopted by the Sejm, because we cannot do anything else, and we will really support all the amendments that are for the benefit of the cooperative movement, for the tenants. I'll tell you another thing, Mr. Marshal, if I may, maybe these five minutes right away... a description of the day before yesterday's committee meeting. Mr and Mrs Dear, I was the most radical union on the railroad, as I had to be, I was starving for people for 16 days. But it's yesterday's behavior of some representatives, insulting the minister, where I had to intervene: Mr. and Mrs. Dear, I'm sorry, the Minister has a voice, you have a voice, you can express your views... 'Cause I didn't tell anyone not to say anything, and I let everyone speak without restricting the time. I was embarrassed because, Mr. and Mrs. Dear, one of my representatives, I won't mention my name. In general, it's from Lasovka. How he jumped on the Minister... Mr and Mrs Dear, I'm sorry, I'm not going to name you, I said, this is almost my district... not my constituency, but near me, Senator Janie. Therefore, Dear Lords, such an appeal: let us not really dwell on this problem, and, as my wonderful father told me in my holy memory, let us focus on solving the problem. For me, Senator, for me, President Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister, this is a huge authority. And even though I'd be talking to him, I wouldn't say he'd slap me anything... Because I've talked to him many times, and he's a statesman to me. The husband of the state! I pray every day that he can withstand this pressure, these attacks on him, on... I don't know how much human psyche can withstand, because it's like my twin brother died, like my sister-in-law and so many people died, my law and justice colleagues... And yet, as I see it now, That's how I went last night. Some attacks, I don't know which party, because I don't support them, but I think from Petru's party, flying to your president, giving him something or... Come on, guys. That's respect, isn't it? [[Mr. Senator, get to the point.]] I'm done. [[That's not the subject...]] But I'm sorry, this is the subject, my opinion, Mr. Marshal... But I'm not saying anymore. [[But the subject of the discussion...]] Dear Member States, therefore, I declare, as I have said, that all the amendments that will be for the benefit of the tenants, for the cooperative law, will be voted out. And I declare that if they are inconsistent with the scope of the bill, they will certainly be voted out. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, excuse me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u278	Thank you, Senator. Senator Napieralski will speak for the second time. Five minutes, please. [[I'm gonna want to talk to you later...]] You've run out of time. [[I'm sorry, I just want to say...]] [[But the name didn't come up.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: I'm sorry if a name came up...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I want to refer to you because all the time...]] In what mode, Senator? [[In corrigendum mode, because you...]] [[But the name didn't come up.]] In corrigendum mode, one sentence, please correct. [[Voice from the room: But the name didn't come up.]] [[Voice from the hall: But don't push Napieralski...]] I'm sorry. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator, you're welcome.]] [[No, you're welcome, Mr. Senator, in order, I'll wait, cool down...]] Senator Napieralski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the question of the education of mirrors, because this is quite an important issue. It's not like there might be someone out there with an education that we think is inadequate, although in my first speech I pointed out that the same... [[But I didn't say...]] No, no, I'm not talking to the senator right now. Another senator. And not mean, too, Mr. Chairman. All I'm saying is that the cooperative movement or the unions that work for housing cooperatives, they see exactly that the world is changing around them, and they regulate a lot of internal laws to fit in. In 2012 a special resolution of the General Assembly of the National Cooperative Council was adopted, concerning inter alia. Just the mirrors. And listen to the criteria that must be met by the person who wants to be a illustrator. First, it must have a higher education and at least three years' traineeship in a cooperative or cooperative relationship or a secondary and five-year traineeship in a cooperative or cooperative relationship. So please note that already five years ago, the housing cooperative itself understood that in order for everything to go well and there was no external charge... And that's the kind of legislation that's been put in place. They brought them in themselves. Also, you're talking about transparency. And rightfully, I agree. Also in the same resolution it is written that all persons who passed the test correctly have passed all the trainings It says how many of these trainings must be, how many hours, who carry them out They're staying... It's actually shown to everyone. So it's de facto already there. It's working. I also said, and I will say this once again, that if in fact an amendment similar to the Senator's amendment were passed, then... The cooperative movement understands it, only then it is necessary to give a little more time so that the procedures that are being initiated, for example. continue until the end of this year, have been properly carried out and completed. Because if all of a sudden we break it off or something happens and the vacathio legis time is reduced, it's actually going to be a very big problem for this cooperative movement. And since we want to work with them and build with them this positive program we talked about this morning... it's important that this happens. And here's the next thing. I do. I take the senator's statement as a good coin. That if it is true that we can wait a little longer with this bill and we can call such a committee and actually invite all interested and talk about it, also senators outside the committee and people who would like to come, or relationships, anyone who wants to come and talk about it, then it is worth doing it. It's absolutely worth it. Because perhaps in such a calm discussion at the committee meeting, without much emotion, one could lead to such records or adopt such amendments, so that all parties would actually be pleased that they have won, even those who have a sense of injustice and are fighting for this justice. 'Cause it's not like anybody's gonna... I don't know a case like this that somebody's specially doing it just to get someone kicked out of the apartment. I haven't heard anyone prepare these mirrors so that they're unprepared and do... [[Housecleaners.]] No, but I'm talking about housing cooperatives now. I'm talking about cooperatives, and that's all I'm talking about. That's really what this bill is about. I'm talking about how when you talk to the presidents today, especially those little housing cooperatives, you can see that they're really taking a lot of trouble to keep it going. Because it's easier in a large village, where it's easier to access authorities, you can actually manage the terrain completely differently, and it's harder, for example. In a little popeger village where someone actually got it... I don't want to say that he was in the inheritance, but he managed, for example. 2 or 3 buildings, which once belonged to the PGR, were built there a housing cooperative, is the president and he had to fight for this housing cooperative. There are also some housing cooperatives that really, in addition to their original or most important activity, which they do, for example, establish foundations, help the poorest, not only those living in the cooperative, but also outside the cooperative, educate, organize competitions, trips of gifted children, etc., etc. This is a really good idea. And I would just like to appeal, in particular to the Minister and to the president of the Senate Law and Justice Club, to listen to what the cooperative movement is saying while working on this bill. In fact, they only have 2 or 3 reservations, please pay attention, it's not much And prepare the bill so as not to fire the baby with a bath. ♪ 'Cause if you do ♪ I'll be done with this. This housing program is supposed to go out and cooperatives are supposed to be involved, so you really need to work with them and support this movement, because he can just help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u280	Thank you, Senator. Senator Staron, in corrigendum mode. I'd like a brief statement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, you misunderstood me. [[I understand perfectly.]] Let me put it this way: anyone who leans over this law and knows that these issues need to be changed, adapted to the judgment of the Court, is absolutely only to praise. This is a man who leans over human harm, over injustice... [[Senator, this was supposed to be a corrigendum. What are you gonna straighten out? What kind of statement?]] [[Leave it, Stasio...]] Because the senator here, speaking to me, was talking about five years, I am informing the senator that there have been a lot more years. As the senator noted, and correctly, I was three terms in the Sejm, and from the very beginning, Senator, I was involved in cooperative work. Thanks to this, millions of Poles today can own themselves. Because in 2007, contrary to the self-defense with which PiS was then in the coalition, the PiS together with the Platform, which managed to convince it absolutely, was behind the patronage. There were proposals from this project I made, Senator. Despite the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2008, it was then possible, contrary to the government project, to persuade Members to actually maintain their jurisdiction. And in the end, Mr. Senator, we also had this in the Senate. I'm sure you remember, because you were at those committee meetings. Print No.99 has been submitted, after all, the President knows that These problems, a year ago, would have come into force. And factory apartments, and after all, the issue of membership... But I'm not gonna say that exactly, if you say so, don't fly. I'll quote it. Mr. Senator, you've contributed to this, and you've been very hard on this job, haven't you? And last but not least... [[Senator, that's polemic, not corrigendum. Finish your speech.]] And last but not least, Mr. Senator, I'd like to say... [[This is a debate.]] A group of Members went to the Constitutional Court, I was the applicant, and that is the result. After all, it was the Court who said that these laws call for vengeance to heaven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u282	Senator said that already. Thank you very much, corrected. Senator Rooster. In what mode: first time, second time? [[In what mode, Stasio?]] [[Did I?]] The senator has five minutes. [[I didn't give you a name.]] [[But you looked him in the eye.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u283	Senator, yes, I was the initiator and I asked Senator Gogach to wait. I'm not ashamed of it, I have a spine, I'm a highlander and a man of solidarity. I'm not a chameleon who changes color. For me, Solidarity and PiS is sacred. But I said, there's a government project and, Mr. Chairman, we have to wait, because maybe the government project will coincide or move further than Senator Staron's project. Yesterday I asked the Minister four times, even at the end, if all the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal, I mentioned the years 2012, 2015 at the end of 2013. There was a clear answer that yes. And I will say, Senator Napieralski, very briefly. Yes, please, I'd like you all to meet me on Tuesday at 8:00 in the morning. But, Senator, I no longer have great opportunities as chairman. I can sit down with the Infrastructure Committee... I can only give the floor to the Minister, the legislator, the applicant, but not that there will be polemics, and we are voting. Even if the amendment goes beyond the scope of matter, we have to vote it out. So that once again, Mr Marshal, I would like to thank, apologize and thank you to the Minister. Thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło for finally taking care of cooperative law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u284	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak in the discussion? I state that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Potrowicz, Senator Napieralski and Senator Staroń. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 552, and the report of the Commission In print No 552 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, together with the conclusions of the minority of the committee of 11 July this year, when the government draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws were examined; Senate printing No.552. The bill was passed by the Sejm on 7 July. At the beginning of the committee meeting, Deputy Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, State Secretary, discussed the basic objectives and assumptions of this law. This amendment amends the Real Estate Management Act of 21 August 1997. The modifications made largely aim to clarify the rules. It also responds to the Ombudsman's requests and takes into account the demands of certain professional authorities. The Act introduces many modifications and clarifications. It extends the definitions of professional property assessors' organisations to chambers of commerce which bring together property assessors carrying out on their own behalf a single-member business activity or within a personal partnership for the estimation of immovable property, by introducing an additional condition that they constitute at least half of all members of the Chamber. The Act introduces the possibility of redemption, deferment of repayment dates or payment of payments on instalments due on charges for perpetual use, rent, rent or lease, in relation to the property of the State Treasury, by the voivode or by the competent minister. It allows competent authorities to entrust certain property management activities to the selected entities of the Treasury. It shall extend the catalogue of activities which may be carried out by organisational units using immovable property put into a permanent management so that, as part of the use of immovable property put into a permanent management, the organisational unit may also demolish the building. Another change is the limitation of the property stock managed by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing for the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways by excluding, in addition to the property allocated to the regional headquarters, property occupied by public roads or intended for the implementation of road investments. We continue to exempt perpetual users from the obligation to pay the first perpetual use charge, with the reservation that 3 years have elapsed since the end of the contract; the harmonisation of the deadline for determining adiacencant fees and the clarification of the rules for determining the value of immovable property for the purpose of fixing the same fees; the harmonisation of the wording of the statutory definition of the market value of immovable property with the definition in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, amending the Regulation of the European Union. Further amendments shall include the provision of registers and documents referred to in Article by the obliged authorities and other entities to valuers. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 the Real Estate Management Act; repealing the obligation to draw up and transfer to the competent authorities operating the real estate extracts from estimated operations by property experts and abolishing the professional responsibility of the valuers in this respect. Another issue is the introduction of an obligation to add a copy of the mandatory CC insurance document to the estimated operation or the contract for the valuation of real estate, as well as the introduction of penalties in the form of an administrative penalty for failure to comply with the obligation to hold CC insurance; the restoration of professional liability for failure to fulfil the obligation of permanent improvement of professional qualifications by property experts. The Act introduces definitions of real estate brokers, real estate brokers, real estate managers and real estate managers; it provides real estate brokers with access to real estate registers and property rights; it introduces criminal liability for carrying out real estate brokerage or real estate management activities without the required form rules. Further amendments include modifications to the provisions authorising the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing to make arrangements for the appointment and cancellation of the State Qualifications Commission and the Committee on Professional Responsibility or their members and the addition of a provision authorising the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing to define, by regulation, ways of improving professional qualifications by valuers, means of documenting and assessing compliance with this obligation. The Senate legislature then took the floor, which drew attention to a number of incorrect entries in his opinion. Firstly, they concerned an article. 2 (2) Novels, Article. 35b. 2 laws. He noted that this provision was temporary in nature, setting a time limit for the transformation of the map into a digital form. In the current wording, this provision ended its existence on 31 December 2016 and expired from the legal system. The legislator therefore does not see any justification for amending a provision that is not in the system. Secondly, in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. One, three, and one, two, three. The 9th amendment concerns the principles of legislative technology. They provide that where an exception is provided for from any of the elements of the substantive provision or if any of the elements require clarification, an exception or clarification provision shall be inserted after that provision. In addition, it should be noted that in accordance with the Article. Point 10 (2) of the Article. 4 shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication of the law, and the law shall in principle be entered into force in accordance with Article. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 September 2017. It is therefore appropriate to correlate the time limit relating to the termination of proceedings as soon as the provisions enter into force. About the art. 10 points 3 and 4 of the amendment, these were errors related to the reference. The Minister replied to these suggestions by the legislator. About the article. 2 solutions adopted by the Sejm were considered appropriate. The Ministry does not see a gross flaw in such a solution. According to the Minister, there is also no threat to the operation of geodetic maps. As regards the proposal for an amendment to the Article. 4, this is a matter of legislative approach, because neither the legislators of the Government Legislative Centre nor the legislators of the Sejm have seen the problem here. The position of Senate legislature is different. The senators at the committee's meeting and finally at the Senate's meeting shall decide anyway. About the article. Point 10 (4) was granted that there was a mistake and needs to be corrected. As regards the next part of the committee's meeting, a representative of the Federation of Poland's Real Estate Market (Polish Real Estate Market) took the floor, who raised objections to point 1 of the article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. It's about a penalization that includes any determination of the value of real estate, even if it doesn't require the services of an asset valuer. In addition, comments were received on points 1 and 2 of Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. The provision on real estate intermediation and real estate management is, according to the postulates, grossly wrongly formulated, since criminal liability is attributed to the wrong persons and it is not possible to carry out the intended subject-matter of protection. In addition, the provision relating to real estate managers in point 2 of Article 2 has not been constructed correctly. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. There were also other general comments from the Federation representative about the security risk associated with the valuation of the property, as well as furthering, referring to inheritance law, etc. After this speech, the Minister explained that there were no such dangers and the demands made by the representatives of the Federation would not be accepted, because the law fully meets the expectations which are related to the activities of the experts, answering the issues which were raised here. The most interesting moment of the whole committee meeting is a discussion. Here Senator Piotr Florek took the floor, which focused mainly on 2 aspects. First of all, on unjustified, of course in his opinion, imposing an obligation to join the operations of the insurance policy of the valuer. Secondly, it's an article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3, where we are talking about determining professional self-governments not so... It is about what professional organisations do and what they agree with the right minister, about the so-called. standards that have so far been set by the local government and the ministry, i.e. together... The articles change this law and the Minister is to determine it. The main charge was that the minister was unable to determine it himself. The senator said it was an empty recipe. In view of these claims and allegations, the Minister stated in the case of the first one that the inclusion of the OC in documents was the result of an assessment of the functioning of the current rules. It is mainly about securing the interests of the other party, so that the victim can quickly get information about the valuer's policy, not ask for it and wait for how often it has been so far. Secondly, on the basis of experience and the last 13 years of activity, only one standard has been introduced. So you can't count on the efficient development of standards by the expert community. And yet it is necessary to develop standards. The Minister thinks that, in order not to wait years, it would be better if the bill specifically referred to the Minister, who will be responsible for this, is the responsibility... And he's still gonna have to consult with the local authorities. The committee president then decided to vote on the amendments in the following order: first there were the amendments tabled by Senator Flork, taken over from the association of experts who did not receive the support of the majority, and finally the letter amendment, which received the support of the majority, was voted on. The president put the entire bill and committee to the vote by 11 votes, 6 abstentions, adopted the proposal to proceed. So many committee reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u286	Thank you, Senator. Now I will ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, after the report... Mr Gawel presented the report as precise as this rarely happens in this Chamber. He practically put everything into place as he did at the committee meeting, with great precision and great accuracy. However, I would like to say a few words about these minority proposals, because maybe the Minister will change his mind. It's always worth talking about, discussing. Of course, as far as the Real Estate Act is concerned, this is another change, exactly since 1998 it has been seventy... probably even the 90th change, so a lot of these changes have been. The current change has 21 pages. I must say that these provisions are mostly aimed at clarifying, modifying, adding new rules. And we can agree here that this change is really going in the right direction. I'm sure I won't vote against the bill, that's what I'm saying. But what I'd like to say right now is that I'm just going to refer to what Senator Gaweł said about OC. The thing is, their civil responsibility... In many competitions, in many places we have to show up for this insurance policy. I gave an example at the committee meeting. You know best because you drive a car, so you also have to be responsible for the OC policy, but none of you glue copies to your car under the window so that someone can see it in case of an accident. Adding an estimated extra card to the surgery, especially in the case of small operats, in my opinion, makes no sense. I'm saying this because... because today the state knew me in the case of another law, that I've been in a different position for eight years. So let me tell you, a little earlier, before, I've done thousands in my life. Maybe not thousands, but certainly hundreds. The valuation of real estate, many properties, because I am an asset valuer. I also have a professional real estate broker's license. And since the bill also speaks of geodetic law, as the senator said, I would like to add that I also have powers in terms of geodesia. However, I am not going to talk about this in broad terms, because it is not easy. These are topics for professionals, which is why I won't talk about it. I'll go back to cases that are related to a minority request. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 31, point (a) is deleted. c. What's going on here? The senator has already mentioned it. Well, it's been like this so far. It's an art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 6. that professional standards have been established by professional organisations of property experts in agreement with the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, and the communication on the agreement of professional standards is published in the official journal of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. The amendment proposed to amend this provision It is much shorter and makes it sound like this: the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing sets and announces the applicable professional standards in the form of a notice. I am convinced that when it comes to property experts' organisations, no one will agree. The Minister may issue regulations, regulations, different approaches to the case, but... these are not regulations, they are not regulations, they are not regulations, they are not regulations, they are not regulations. These are the standards that determine what the valuer's activities are to perform. It would be good if, as so far, these standards were set by professional organisations, of course, in agreement with the Minister. I do not believe, Minister, that you yourself have these standards. At the moment, we're talking about the road that Minister... It says here that everyone will be happy with it if they haven't been agreed up to now. With regard to these standards, these banking issues were partially agreed. But the rules have changed and so on. I'm not going to bring this up anymore, because those standards before 1997 were different. In any case, the point is that it would be better not to change it, which is just to keep it as it was. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 31, delete point 31. c and there won't be a topic. Second thing. Senator Gaweł mentioned... I took over the proposals for amendments of the Polish Real Estate Market Federation, because I thought that they were very valid. I don't know, the Minister may have analysed this case more carefully... I still think that it would be right to make these amendments after thinking about it. It's about art. 198b: who makes... It's about punishment. This someone is subject to fine up to PLN 50,000. There are three points in this provision, and the point is that they change. Paragraph 1: "who shall determine the value of the immovable property without complying with the conditions referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of I wouldn't insist on it. If only this had been about the first point... The proposal is to specify who determines the value of the property referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the 3... The point is to specify that the value of the property and the machines is determined by the value of the value of the property, so that someone doesn't think it's a different value. Other examples of value were given at the committee meeting. It's just that it's clear. Without complying with those conditions referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in If that were the case, I wouldn't insist, although it's not well defined, but it's mostly about the other two points. Who shall perform the activities specified in the mediation contract in question... I'm not going to mention this article anymore. without complying with the conditions referred to in Article. 179a... What's this article about? 179a? That's where the real estate broker is defined. It is known that these licenses for intermediaries that were... Well, this is where Minister Gowin bows down. Therefore, this mediation had to be defined. This article. 179a states that the real estate broker is an entrepreneur engaged in real estate brokerage activities. These are similar points for intermediaries and managers. I'm glad we have a landlord with clearances among the senators. That's two points, but I'm going to discuss this on the basis of one example. Well, who does the activities specified in the mediation contract... The Act applies the provision of a mediation agreement. And the mediation agreement is something defined between the parties and it would be difficult to define, because the parties define the terms of the mediation agreement. It's the same with the manager's agreement. You can write something here, but it won't be clear. The proposal is to write this in a different way: who does business in the field of real estate brokerage This is the provision in the Law. referred to in Article. 179b, without the required notification to the relevant business records, shall be punishable. It would be the same for managers. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that there is a difference between valuers and intermediaries and managers. It is based on the fact that the valuer is somewhat specific. We know who it is and that he's doing his own job. And as far as managers and intermediaries are concerned, we have this defined in the Act. So that this recipe can be enforced and that there's no confusion here, I suggest... I maintain that the request made by the minority makes sense. If it is not accepted, life will show, and in a short time, whether these penalties will actually be enforced. If someone who's going to perform a real estate broker contract and doesn't register his business... He doesn't have to do it, he can do his job without doing it. But such a person will not be punished. It should therefore be considered whether, however, these small amendments would be worthwhile. So many of my comments to this bill. I agree with all the other points. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No.]] Are you sure? [[I'm sure.]] Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[It doesn't bounce either.]] Don't tell me. Minister? No. Now the senators can ask questions to the Minister. [[There's no one here, Mr. Marshal.]] Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on State aid in the acquisition of the first apartment by young people. The text of the act is contained in print No 553, and the report of the committee In print No 553 A. I would very much like to ask Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a report on the Law amending the Law on State aid in the acquisition of the first apartment by young people. The purpose of this law is to introduce rules allowing the full use of funds for the financing of own contributions in the form of repayment of part of the mortgage loan intended for the purchase of an apartment or building contribution, as well as for additional support for birth or adoption of a third or subsequent child. The Act allows for the renewal of applications for funding still in 2017, as well as the acceptance of applications for 2018 until a limit is reached in the form of the total amount of the limit set for that year. At this point, I would like to briefly mention the state aid rules under the aid scheme for young people to acquire their first apartment. This program will continue until 2018, which is still this year, at the end of the year, and next year. This program may be used by spouses, one of whom has not reached the age of thirty-five. They can purchase an apartment of up to 75 m2 or a residential building, a house of up to 100 m2. This may be an apartment of your own or cooperative. The scheme imposes the principle that its beneficiaries must take a 50% mortgage the purchase of premises for at least 15 years. The remaining amounts come from own resources. Here is a fixed price for buying an apartment or house, which is specified for individual municipalities. The point is, these apartments aren't too expensive. There is an appropriate formula that determines this value, this purchase price. In any municipality, this may be different or similar, depending on the prices on the market in the municipality concerned. If these conditions are met, the State grants 10% own contribution. Families with three children can receive additional funding of 5%. As I said, the bill provides for this program... The end of this program is in 2018. The Act sets for each year a limit on the appropriations to which support for own contribution and additional financial support may be paid. For 2017 the limit of these funds amounts to PLN 746 million, and for 2018 a little more, because PLN 762 million. The co-financing rules are that the beneficiaries apply for own contribution from the Donor Fund. If the sum resulting from these applications reaches the equivalent of 95% the amount planned for the payment of financial support, then the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego announces in the Public Information Bulletin that no further applications are received. Other 5% to be left to cover payments relating to those applications which were submitted on the date of publication of the information. 'Cause sometimes, in a situation where these conclusions get upset... Well, it could happen that there's gonna be a lot of requests on that day. And that's why the 5% is left as a reserve. [[As in life, Mr. Senator.]] But it turned out that not all those declaring the use of the programme finally benefited from it. This was because some applicants withdrew their applications for funding or resigned from the credit agreement. As of 30 May of this year, the use of support measures amounted to 90.72%. This means that from the limit of PLN 746 million for 2017 the unused amount of PLN 65 million remained. This law under consideration, the amendment allows the programme to be restarted, launched in order to use this amount still in the current year, in 2017. This will enable aid to be mobilised for the purchase of housing for about 4 000 households. This aid couldn't have been triggered if we hadn't implemented it. It will also amend the rules for the adoption of applications in 2018. Experienced, i.e. simply as a result of what it looked like this year, in 2018 it is expected that... This law will give the possibility to apply for own contribution until the amount resulting from the submitted applications reaches the equivalent of 100% the limit, not 95%, as has so far been in the bill. Like I said, it's because some of the beneficiaries are ultimately not using the program, so there's no fear that the last day... that when the Public Information Bulletin announces... There is no fear that many more proposals will be submitted. If they are complex, they will still be recognized, because it turns out that not everyone uses it and there are reserves... So that then... [[As in life, Mr. Senator.]] It's all gonna go down, I mean. Maybe there's another one, say, the rest of it stays. If there's any left over, we'll be debating next year to use it. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure... [[...you have the honor...]] ...I have the honor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, senators, don't disturb the senator. You're welcome, take it easy.]] ...I have the honour to present to the High House... The position of the High Commission is to adopt a law without amendments. They all voted in favour, unanimously, so that we ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Once again, I welcome Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. [[Minister, the senator has explained so beautifully.]] Mr. Senator, we're not commenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Literally two sentences of explanation. Because we're closing the limit and he's going to be here to 100%. there is no risk that the payments will not be made for families with a third and a fourth child, because this reserve was intended to be used for those large families to pay an additional amount if the child was born. Unfortunately, as far as this programme is concerned, in the first year of its operation there were 0.01% of people with such a surcharge. , last year. 0,2%. So even if we get to 100% And some of those people who apply won't benefit from it... Even if 0.5% doesn't benefit from it, so far it's been about 6 and 7%. It will always be a limit within which for these large families this surcharge will be. Unfortunately, in Poland wealthy people, who have many children, do not benefit from this program, and those poor many children cannot benefit from it either. So this program is not as pro-family as it was supposed to be, because many families do not use it. So that there is no danger that for families of many children these resources will be lacking. I'm sure that's enough, and if there's anything else, there's an additional reserve in the budget that can be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u292	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a government representative related to this point. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators... Senator Blackbay. You're welcome. Minister, please approach the podium again. Senator Blackbaj will ask you a question. Would anybody else like to ask you a question? No. There'll only be one question, Minister. [[No, three questions.]] There you go. You're gonna ask Senator Blackbay three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the first question is the following. The amount of 750 000 is rounded to the tune of the amount allocated to support for persons under the first apartment scheme. How do you estimate how much resources should be provided per year for these proposals that may impact? Is there any knowledge that in order to secure funds for those willing to receive support in the year, e.g. 2018, you need not 750 thousand, but 800,000, 1 billion, etc.? Is there such knowledge in the ministry, what are the expectations of families, about their support in buying the first apartment? That's the first thing. I'm returning to the question, Minister, because I didn't want to drag it out before, so I wouldn't prolong it. Tell us... We know that in eight years, about 1 million 200 thousand apartments were built. I'm sure you've made such a calculation that if everything's going to be okay... We know that we will strive for better results, in comparison with other countries of the European Union That's what the Minister said. Then tell me... If it's going to be good in 10 years, how many apartments could it be? Not just those in the first apartment program, but in Poland at all. And third question, last question. If the Minister could tell me... If we add up the total value of support e.g. for the year 2018 or 2017 from the state budget, from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or from other institutions affected by the government What absolute value does the field of construction and housing receive when it comes to support? Those three questions. If the last Minister does not know the answer, because it may be so, I ask for a written reply of type: we estimate that the total support for 2018 will be in this amount and this amount. I'm not just talking about the MdM program, which is, let's call it the first apartment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator, how many people are willing? There's no such thing as research. It is known that several million apartments are missing in Poland. Studies in this field They're very different. Some say we're $700,000 short, others say we're $5 million short. Yes? Depending on what standard we want to reach, whether we take into account the degraded houses that will need to be demolished and build new ones in return, whether we want to reach the European average, or whether we want to have a level, say, Germany or Sweden, this size will be very different. Yes? Experience so far showed that in the first year there was very little interest, in the second year it was eighty-two percent, in the last year there were already more willing, but it is not known how many, because it stops receiving applications if it is 95%. It's the same this year. So how many of these It's hard to say. Yes? Definitely more eager has been since the secondary market. Because almost half of these proposals concern the secondary market and half only the new market. So it doesn't translate completely into the creation of new apartments, because it also revolves around existing apartments. So that this program is only half-pro-developmental. And when it comes to support, there are different segments. Yes? I was talking about social housing support this morning. Over 100,000 apartments are expected to be built with this support. These are communal and above all TBS apartments. How many cooperatives are gonna want? We don't know how much they want to use. But it's more than 10 billion. I'll present to the senator in writing what support we expect during this period and how much housing we want to build. If we assume that this state, which is today at the end of 2016, was 162 thousand, and in 2017 there will be more It will be preserved, and for 10 years we will build 1 million 600 thousand. But I think this number is going to grow because this year, like I said, it's 40%. more building permits issued, 20% more constructions started. So this also indicates that the number of apartments will be higher than last year, which is going to be more than 160 thousand. If we multiply it by 10, it's going to be more than 1 million 600 grand. I think you'll have to build a lot more than $2 million. Except we've been reserving from the beginning that it's not like the state's gonna build 2 million apartments or 1 million. Everyone on the market has to build so many. If we don't do anything, it's going to stop at 160 grand, and it's probably going to be times 10. But every instrument that we introduce increases the number of people built, so that number should be greater. We aim for a European average. That's our assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. I have a question: won't you answer in writing? [[About the total expenditure.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: I will reply in writing on the total expenditure.]] Will it? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes, I will.]] Okay, okay. Wait a minute. One more question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u297	Just a quick question. This programme ends in 2018. Please tell me: aren't you expecting an extension of this programme, since there is an increasing interest, since it is becoming increasingly effective?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u298	We've been saying from the beginning that we're introducing... I mean, government policy is to primarily meet the needs of those who are unable to meet these needs in the commercial market. Research shows that in Poland about 40% of the population is doing well on the market, i.e. it is able to rent a commercial apartment or obtain a loan, 20% These are those who have so low income that they are unable to get any help and have to benefit from social, municipal assistance. That leaves 40%. That is, those who have too much income to get a communal apartment, and at the same time too small to get a loan or rent an apartment on the market. We want to reverse this trend, so that these people, at least 40% of them, There is also aid for everyone else, but this is mainly about 40%. For which at the moment there is no offer on the market, such offer to give. This is included in the whole apartment program. We will support individual or any other construction through individual housing accounts. It'll help everyone, they'll get a bonus. For those with very low incomes is the aid I have already mentioned today, and in a moment there will be another law in the Sejm, the Social Construction Act, so as to support those who have the lowest income. The National Housing Program provides comprehensively for all segments. We therefore believe that this programme is running out, in line with the previous government's assumption that it will end in 2018, and that we are introducing other instruments that will meet these needs and new needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u299	I don't see any more people willing to ask a question, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Minister, a representative of the government, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and the organisation of certain agricultural markets and amending certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 550 and the report of the Commission In print No 550 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u300	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 11 July 2017 examined the law amending the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and the organisation of certain agricultural markets and amending certain other laws. The bill didn't cause much controversy. After the Minister's presentation of the bill... It is mainly aimed at introducing new regulations related to the programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables and milk to schools, which we need to change in the new school year 2017/2018 in connection with EU changes. Appropriate solutions are proposed. Another amendment to the Act, which was also presented by the Minister, includes legal changes related to the creation of a new agency, the National Agricultural Support Centre, and the division of competences, because, as we know, the new agency has part of its tasks relating to the Agricultural Property Agency, but also to the Agricultural Market Agency. The amendments to this law are intended to clarify this, regulate it. The third most recent amendment concerns the European Agricultural Fund under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. This law is intended to clarify and clarify various proposals and amendments. Like I said, the bill didn't trigger a discussion committee meeting. There were 6 amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, but these amendments were not supported by the committee. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u301	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Zbigniew Babalski. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I ask the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u302	The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions invites you to a meeting which will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in room 106 in the House of the Sejm. Order of sitting: review of the Law on the amendment of the Act on the National Council of Courts and of certain other laws; review of the Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of common courts and of certain other laws. The meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on the Act on the National Academic Exchange Agency and the Law on the Rules of Finance for Science will be held on 14 July, Friday, 8.30 a.m. in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted during the plenary debate to the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection will take place today, 13 July, 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of proposals for the Act amending certain laws related to family support schemes will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-13-senat-45-2.u303	That's all the messages? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 18 minutes 02]]
