ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Senators, please take your seats. Resume session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July (Slovakia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is provided in print No 400. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission examined the information at its meeting on 18 January 2017 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Minister, I would like to welcome you very warmly. I ask the Minister to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because this chatter is disturbing. You're welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present to you once again information about the actions of the Polish government under the next Presidency of the European Union, in this case the Slovak Presidency. You have a very detailed register of individual legislative work in the information provided to the Sejm and the Senate, and I would like to take time in this speech to present these initiatives and these political processes, most often processes that have a longer history and a longer perspective, because in the Union it is rare for decisions to be taken quickly and for some process to be concluded quickly within just six months. I will present to you these initiatives, those issues which, at least in my opinion, were of crucial importance from the point of view of Poland's policy in the European Union during these 6 months. The Slovak Presidency focused its priorities on four main issues: a strong economic Europe, a modern single market, a sustainable migration policy and a global Europe. In addition to these issues, quite obvious, to a large extent due to external circumstances, challenges, real challenges facing the European Union, of course a very important element, an important challenge for the Slovak Presidency was the announcement of the results of the referendum on the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union, which forced the Presidency, but also other EU institutions, to react quickly. This rapid response has taken place, and it is certainly proof of the efficiency of Slovak diplomacy, because this response was not only timely and timely, but also allowing countries to unite, in this case, the EU 27 countries. It is about positions, initial decisions already taken among the EU 27 countries in relation to the UK's exit from the European Union. Firstly, very quickly, on the margins of June... the EU position 27 was adopted setting out the main principles that the European Union should follow in the negotiations with the United Kingdom. These main principles, in line with Polish expectations, referred, among other things, to protecting the Union from decomposing the common market, from dispersing, disintegrating the common market. This remains an obvious risk of the entire process of leaving the UK from the European Union, because this process began with the fact that in the UK there were lasting expectations that the single market would cease to be a unity built on the four pillars, crucial from a Polish point of view, the four pillars, which also form a balance, a political balance between the various aspects of integration, which play a different role for different countries. As far as Poland is concerned, any attempt to limit the cross-border provision of services or labour mobility was not only an important issue from an economic point of view, but also remains... It is a matter of principle. We are convinced that this is definitely a majority position in the European Union. The fact that any attempt to decompose the common market into a political need, a political need for a moment in this country or another country, will end badly for the future of the European project itself. Because, contrary to what can sometimes be felt, while looking at a brief debate on the future of the Union, the backbone itself, the skeleton, the most important part of the political content of the European Union remains the common market, which is the legacy of the integration process, which is relatively easy to defend. Because it is the single market now that not only accelerates the economic growth of countries or increases the opportunities of economic operators, but it is certainly good for building the well-being of citizens themselves. The single market with its entire structure, supported by trade policy, supported by a customs union, makes the European Union remain In very unfavorable conditions A major global competitor, an entity that is able not only to shape regulatory rules, standards, often in important matters such as food safety for citizens, not only to influence these standards beyond its borders, but also to effectively defend them, so that the European model of development, in particular as regards issues of a strong social nature, can survive under these unfavorable conditions. The case in question is therefore far more serious than if it were just one of the narrow, regulatory, sometimes very technical aspects of integration. This is a matter of principles, this is a matter of the future of the integration process. Therefore, the fact that this issue was able to be described very well in the initial positions adopted at the time is important for us. However, this does not mean that the European Union, and in particular Poland, would wish that political, economic and, in particular, security routes would be too far apart as a result of such a position. This aspect has no direct bearing on economic governance between the European Union and the United Kingdom. But we have established a clear logic in this matter. We want economic, political and security relations as close as possible, but not at the cost of decomposing the common market. I believe that after a few months, it can be concluded that this communication has been very well understood that London has been read into this communication. The speech by the Prime Minister, Theresa May, from Lancaster House, clearly shows that all the relevant consequences of this thinking have been drawn. This, of course, poses a very big challenge when it comes to getting out of these negotiations, but this is no longer part of the Slovak Presidency's plan, so I will not talk about it again. From an EU perspective, institutional issues are no less important than certain political rules. If we consider that we are about to sit at the negotiating table with a unitary state, being the very organisation of many countries with very complex institutional architecture, it is extremely important to ensure that the roles and responsibilities of the EU are properly shared in this process. There is no doubt that the European Commission should play a key role as a direct negotiator of the exit process itself, above all of the UK's exit process from the European Union. But there is no doubt that this process can have far-reaching political consequences for the Union itself, not only for the relationship between the Union and the United Kingdom. Therefore, in line with Polish expectations, the European Council was not only empowered to form as detailed a negotiating mandate as possible to set the negotiating objectives, the negotiating rules for the Commission, but also to be able to return to this subject at any time and correct it at any time, depending on the problems that will arise on the negotiating table of the Commission and the United Kingdom negotiating team. It was important. And the fact that this was adopted relatively quickly is certainly the success of this Presidency. The third aspect, no less important, from a Polish point of view very crucial, is to stimulate a self-critical reflection on the state of the Union, which must result in an ambitious agenda for the reform of the European Union. The mere conviction, perhaps publicly attractive, that the Brexit process came only because of misunderstandings in the Islands, is a very shallow diagnosis. This is an incomplete picture of the situation. Brexit was also affected by the shortcomings, shortcomings, institutional difficulties, lack of guarantees of political error in the European Union's construction itself. This is the reason why we supported the Bratislava initiative to start Although very modest, for our aspirations, for our expectations, I admit it. The internal reform process, the reform process of the political agenda, so that such slippages simply do not occur again. All those who are trying to improve themselves today, explaining that everything is actually very good with the European Union, and all the problems that come are external problems, that it is the world that does not understand, the world does not stand at the level of the task, that the problems are only external, they are making a huge mistake. This is not only an error of analysis, it is a political error, which may result in further erosion of this process, further decoupling from the political realities of the contemporary world, but also modern Europe, modern Member States, without which the integration process cannot function. On this issue too, in these three aspects, the Slovak Presidency, I have the impression, has stood at the level of the task. We have prepared for the rules of negotiations, we have prepared institutionally and we have started a process of at least deep political reflection on the reform of the Union itself. Back to the regular, more calculated and perhaps less politically spectacular aspects of the Presidency, I would say that not only does the adoption of the annual budget deserve to be noted, which was, as it were, the Presidency's natural responsibility as a result of the calendar, but also the proper negotiation of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. This review of the multiannual financial framework, as you may have noticed, has been very often used to exert various types of political pressure. This process of reviewing the multiannual financial framework has been tried to make a ground for political rematch, political settlements, some political summary. That's not what happened, for obvious reasons it shouldn't have happened. The multiannual financial framework has its own objectives to meet. They should respond adequately to the aspirations of all Member States, regardless of political tensions and sometimes even crises that may exist in other policy areas. It would be very unreasonable to easily shift political tensions from one sphere of action of the European Union to another, because that would mean that we take responsibility for spreading political problems throughout the EU agenda. If we have a political problem in one or the other place of the EU agenda, we should ensure that these crisis situations do not spill over to the rest of the EU's policy, because in this way we will only deepen the atmosphere of political tension, often, at least rhetorically, political hostility, which in itself does not serve the integration process. On various occasions, Warsaw paid attention to this septic principle of sticking to the subject, contrary to political emotions. The subject of the multiannual financial framework has been followed. A process was carried out which was not concluded with the final adoption of concrete solutions only due to internal disturbances in Italian policy. I expect this process to be unblocked over the next few weeks, but I do not expect this compromise to be compromised in any way. This is a compromise which from a Polish point of view has 2 important features. The design of the financial framework itself is very complicated. You know their architecture, so I will not refer to all elements and I will pay attention to the 2 key Polish postulates that have been fulfilled. Firstly, the Union's new policy objectives, such as the resolution of the migration crisis, cannot be financed at the expense of Treaty policies and other objectives which, after all, remain valid, such as. Cohesion policy. Secondly, at no price can we lead to the situation In particular, in the context of the expiry of the UK contribution, which may still occur during this financial framework, in which payments will accumulate, they will accumulate at the very end of the multiannual financial framework. The consequences of such a risk would be much stronger on the part of those countries which are beneficiaries of EU programmes and Poland is one of the key ones. This compromise from a Polish point of view was very much built around this postulate. The aim is not to lead to an accumulation of payments at the end, which would result in congestion in payments to beneficiaries in Poland. That's what's been avoided. When it comes to the common market, we have mixed feelings as usual in such cases, as always on such very cross-cutting issues. On the one hand, Poland was a very active participant in the coalition of building an ambitious agenda for the digital market. Our Digital Ministers This was also the case at the premier level of the 16 countries that called for the digital agenda to be built ambitiously. First of all, it is about geoblocking and the free movement of data, which should be a systemic aspect of the digital market. On the other hand, we still haven't closed, and I have the impression that this is a growing problem. The subject of protectionism, protectionism at Member State level, which we feel, for example. in the case of the draft Posting of Workers Directive, the Road Package or, finally, the very broad concept of building a pillar of social rights in the euro area. This case isn't over. The Slovak Presidency has tried, or at least tried, to build more compromise solutions, but with regard to the posting of workers, this is extremely difficult because the European Commission's proposals are completely detached from the paradigm of competition on the Community market. The Commission's proposals focus not only on setting minimum standards, which Poland does not raise any doubts about, because we are interested in ensuring that human work is protected... This is not a controversy. We agreed to such an original form of the directive, which was still in the previous parliamentary term. . which set minimum levels of protection for delegated work. As I say, this is not a controversy. On the other hand, we strongly oppose the introduction of mechanisms whose purpose is to harmonise standards and which will lead to a levelling of wages. The wage is one of the elements of competition and should not be shaped at EU level, outside the contract, this should be largely left to contract freedom, of course beyond minimum wage issues. This is the foundation of competition, the foundation of the common market, which is now being crushed not only by the Member States, which is perhaps somehow understandable in the Member States, such inclinations are born against political problems. But also on the level... Unfortunately, today, this problem has moved to Brussels level, to the level of the European Commission, which is called on by the Treaty to protect the integrity of the common market. This is an unprecedented situation so far, a worrying situation, because this means that the wave of protectionism, which is politically understandable in some Member States, is beginning to flow to the EU level. This is a bad situation. In the context of the common market, with particular emphasis on energy policy, attention should be paid to the conclusion of a compromise on transparency decisions, the control of intergovernmental agreements on energy supply from third countries. This is an important step forward. The European Parliament will, if I remember correctly, close this political process from a formal point of view. The compromise itself was shaped during the Slovak Presidency. It is a compromise towards Polish expectations, it is a more ambitious solution than the previous rules. It will allow us to control intergovernmental agreements with third countries, energy suppliers in such a way that they are certainly compatible with the architecture of the European energy market and that we do not have to deal with a situation in which we would, indeed, have developed a law. . and certainly the strategy. In terms of energy policy, but it would be avoided in a trivial way at the level of classified intergovernmental agreements, which are very often under political pressure. In particular, it is about those countries that feel the greatest political pressure due to energy dependence, depending on the supply of energy raw materials. There has been no progress in the regulation on security of gas supply. All this is on the right track, but building ambitious scenarios to tackle energy supply crises still faces resistance from those countries that actually have a privileged market position and are not actually exposed to any consequences of this type of action. In our view, this is not a matter of nebula solidarity. This is not a question of a mechanism of an overly political nature, although policy on this matter plays a huge role, because it is the only reason why gas supply is disturbed, especially in our part of Europe. In our view, the underappreciated aspect of such solutions is the fact that in this way we build the market's resilience to supply disruptions. In fact, we are building our own negotiating position for countries that are very often overly trusting in their position, the position of the exporting countries. In particular, this applies to those energy raw materials whose turnover is difficult for physical reasons. It's just about gas, because in the case of oil, as you know, this market is much more fluid because of the technical possibilities of transporting oil from virtually every corner of the world. This issue is not finished, but, of course, the Slovak Presidency has given it a significant part of its attention. A very worrying element is the shape of the winter package, which was announced in December, i.e. the Slovak Presidency. There are reasons to mention him. The Slovak Presidency, of course, has no responsibility for how the European Commission uses instruments to implement this once very lofty idea of the Energy Union, but this case... In particular, it is about radically limiting the use of the power market to the most modern coal sources. Let us be honest that this is not about any carbon sources, but about those that are being built today, according to today's technologies, and are actually causing a very important reduction in CO2 emissions. If we are to stick to the fact that this is a measure of the value of our initiatives, let us note that this is also about the most modern technologies. The introduction of this type of legislation in the last phase, actually without consultation, is a very bad legislative practice. This caused a very strong uproar during the discussions at the European Council level. It is rare for a single legislative element to be immediately addressed at the summit. However, Prime Minister Beata Szydło decided to raise this issue because it is systemic and important for our plans for the future of Polish energy. The European Commission knew very well that Poland is, and will probably remain, the only country that intends to base the programme on modernising its own energy sources on the support mechanism known from other countries of the European Union On a mechanism called the power market. The European Commission knew this very well, and not from news or media coverage, which could be considered a little reliable source of information. She knew that because of the prenotization of this idea. The Polish government notified it to the European Commission a few weeks before the winter package was announced. There has been a great deal of migration policy. This is, let us not hide, one of the key elements of political tension in the European Union. This crisis has still not been extinguished, although there seems to be a lot of reasons to close this issue and move on to constructive solutions. The Slovak Presidency has done a lot to look for a scenario that could restore the unity of the Member States of the European Union, but also to increase the effectiveness of our action against this objective migration crisis that we are facing today in the south, and which may one day will appear on some other part of the external border of the European Union. We want the European Union to be a helpful factor when it comes to putting out the migration crisis, because we see the consequences of this crisis. This isn't someone else's crisis. From our point of view, this is not an Italian or Greek crisis. No, this is our common crisis because it increases uncertainty, and these concerns cause political instability for the European Union. So the consequences of this crisis are on our own today, even though we do not feel the direct consequences of the crisis itself, because the Polish external border is well protected. But we are interested in building the resilience of the European Union to such shocks, in particular because we cannot rule out the situation where refugees or migrants are treated instrumentally by various forces operating in areas where migration is born, interested in destabilising this area of the world of North Africa, the Middle East Only to create political pressure, social pressure on the countries of Europe and the European Union in order to destabilize this organisation and this continent. The geopolitical consequences of the migratory crisis are unprecedented and should not come off the radar to analyse this situation. This is one of the reasons why Poland is willing to engage in all activities that we consider acceptable. We are committed to strengthening the protection of the external border, not only formally supporting the regulation, but also sending bordermen to those areas of the external border, which are not Polish areas, do not belong directly to Polish responsibility. This is a gesture of solidarity. We have strengthened the scale of humanitarian aid provided not only by UN or European Union international organisations, but also directly under the Polish flag. We are interested in building cross-cutting agreements with countries of origin that will not be free of charge, and we are aware of that. We are ready to take this kind of action because the primary sources of the migration crisis are strongly linked to the responsibility also of a humanitarian nature, but of political importance. These are the things we want to find a common solution for. But there is no willingness on our part to support the instruments of some transnational management of refugee or migration movements for many reasons. And one of these reasons, which should be noticed by countries not sharing the Polish position, is the fact that these instruments do not provide any solution to the migration crisis. Relocation instruments, allocations are not able to solve the problem of the migration crisis because there is no such capacity in any of the Member States of the European Union This is not about Poland or Slovakia. In no Member State of the European Union has the capacity to absorb potentially millions of people who would gladly cross the external border of the European Union. Whatever we think about it, from any point of view, are instruments that not only cause enormous political tension, but are completely ineffective. In fact, the September 2015 decision of less than 10% was modest in relation to the scale of the crisis. or less than 7% , if I remember correctly, although these percentages change from week to week, made in a fractional, symbolic percentage in all the Member States of the European Union This is a very good example. Earlier, we could see that these were just assumptions, and today we have hard data. These instruments don't work. The instruments of external migration policy are working. Turkey is an excellent manifestation of this. There is a 98 percent decline in illegal migration, uncontrolled in the Aegean Sea. It is potentially possible to repeat the same success, although in more difficult conditions, on the Libyan line or on the Central Mediterranean route. These are real problems, these are real instruments for which Poland is capable of acting in the name of European solidarity. We have, I admit, a limited ability to listen to stories about Poland acting unsolidarly. Poland is not receiving any direct effect of the migration crisis at its borders, we are not directly affected by this crisis and at the same time we are fully involved in all the actions of the European Union's external migration policy instruments. So there is really no reason today to suggest in any way that Poland behaves unsolidarly. This is all the more reason for the national debate. I must say that I am surprised to accept that some Polish politicians think it makes sense to repeat nonsense about how Poland is acting in a migration crisis. It acts in solidarity, above average and is ready for the most ambitious plans in terms of effective instruments to combat the migration crisis on one condition We will see exactly the same willingness to listen to our arguments about reform of the asylum system. I think this is a very honest political proposal that should be taken into account. She was certainly taken into account very seriously at the time of the Slovak Presidency, because it was the Slovak Presidency that produced a conceptual document, first called flexible, then effective solidarity. This is today the only document on which one can imagine a compromise scenario for the reform of the Dublin system. And this is certainly one of the most important achievements of the Presidency. To conclude, I will mention two aspects from the external agenda of the European Union. The first point is CETA, which is the end of the process. That's right there. Poland sought to ensure that national parliaments or, in other cases, other control bodies were able to control this ratification process, which was originally intended only for the EU institutions. From an EU perspective, this agreement is another free trade agreement, and it would be possible to formally build such a legal conclusion that there is no reason for national parliaments to repeat the ratification process. In our view, it is not only because of the shape of this agreement As this agreement goes far beyond the framework of a purely commercial agreement, it has the key and probably most controversial regulatory elements, it finally has a completely new type of guarantee There are formal reasons, legal reasons for Member States to participate on an equal footing in the ratification process. But there's also a political reason. This political reason is that the agreement raises more or less reasonable doubts about the various aspects of the agreement. This is a sufficient reason for this agreement to be subject to national ratification. It was a negotiating agreement of the Polish government on this matter, we secured, among others. the State of the right to express its views on this agreement. We have a lot of time to do so, we really have years to investigate the real consequences of its action and assess whether all fears, more or less justified, are factually consistent, confirm in economic practice, in the shape of our economic relations, or not. I think that such a model of mixed ratification, based on the experience of the operation of the agreement, and not our ideas about how the agreement will work, is an appropriate solution. We have started the process of reviewing the neighbourhood policy. I don't want to talk about it anymore because it's a very broad topic. We can say that the neighbourhood policy today is in a serious crisis, it does not provide the political solutions it had previously been put in place, so there are reasons to start an intensive revision process. However, it seems that the European Union's ability to take responsibility for its external environment was a sign of a serious crisis, unfortunately, that it was unable to accept the conclusions on enlargement. Although, in fact, the only extension that we are dealing with today, the politically living enlargement process is the Western Balkans, because of the map, it looks quite logical for me to say... This process is being hindered today as a result of enormous hesitation not only about how the European Union is to look inside but also about how it is to show its shared responsibility for its immediate surroundings. This drop in ambition is a very negative signal. This is, of course, a consequence of the internal problems of the European Union, and as long as we do not solve internal problems, it will probably be difficult to return to a more ambitious policy outside, but this is worth noting. Without solving internal problems, it will be very difficult to imagine a European Union that really takes care of its surroundings. Poland, as a border country of the European Union, is of course permanently interested in the European Union's ability to show responsibility for its immediate environment, to export security, prosperity, stability to its nearest environment, because it is fundamentally important from the point of view of Polish interests, not only direct, economic nature, but also security interests. To conclude, it has been a very difficult time, I think we will not have an easy Presidency in the coming years, but we must remember that this has been a very difficult time for the Union. The Slovak Presidency has done everything it can to make the process of laying down, harmonising, consulting European policies as effective as possible. From a Polish point of view, it was a good time to practice Polish politics in the European Union. In short, we felt comfortable in this process. A lot of things have been done. Many problems, of course, are not solved, but it is difficult to attribute this to the Slovak Presidency. These are problems that have been going on with us sometimes for years, certainly for months, and we will probably not soon say goodbye to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. There'll be questions in a minute, so stay in the podium. But before we go into questioning, I'd like to give you a message. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that an additional day has been set for this sitting. This is Friday 24 February 2017. The session will resume at 2 p.m. on Friday. The votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting on Friday. Thank you very much. You can now ask no more than a minute of questions to the Minister. Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Discussions initiated by the Slovak Presidency concerned inter alia. the need to ensure the security of the European Union's external borders and the smooth functioning of the Schengen area. One element of this discussion was the urgent conclusion of negotiations on a regulation establishing the European Border and Coast Guard. I would like to ask, at what stage is the issue of the creation of this guard and what is the position of Poland in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u5	Thank you very much. You're Senator Jackowski, right? You're welcome... Excuse me, Senator Klich. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u6	Minister, any crisis, and this has been the case in the European Union for some time, can also be a chance to move forward if it is well managed. The decision taken by the British in the referendum has deepened the crisis, but it has also created an opportunity to strengthen what we have so far in the area of security and defence. And this opportunity is used by the governments of Germany and France, proposing, as early as June last year, and then for the second time in October last year, to strengthen the common security and defence policy. Recently Chancellor Merkel has even said about the European community, the European Defence Union, and it is evident that there is some positive ferment in this area. The Polish diplomat did not set up, it must be acknowledged, back to the process, but did not engage in the way we had been engaged before, years ago, preparing the first or second Weimar letter together with the French and Germans. Please tell me what is the position of our diplomacy in terms of deepening this cooperation and in terms of the next steps in this area. What are you planning? What decisions will we support? And what do you think are the problems on this road? It is in our interest to be in the European Union, which will have a strong dimension of security and defence, because it is always necessary for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u7	Thank you very much. You will ask the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're all booked in. We're guarding the line. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. It has been reported to the public that the United Kingdom wants to give a bonus to the countries of Central Europe, probably due to the restriction of one of the freedoms, i.e. the freedom of movement of workers. This would amount to €11.12 billion a year. Are there any discussions with the Polish government on this subject conducted by the United Kingdom? Does the Minister know anything about this? Is this a reporter's duck or something? That's the first question. And second question. Is there any chance of increasing direct payments to agriculture? PiS announced that it would lead to an increase in subsidies to Polish agriculture, it was one of the slogans of the PiS election. Is there any chance of that? Are there any conversations, negotiations on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u9	Thank you very much. And please, Minister, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u10	As far as the security of the external border is concerned, we have adopted the European Border and Coast Guard Regulation in a very fast way, unexpectedly quickly. Poland actively participated in this because the Commission's original proposal was not well balanced from the point of view of European engagement and management of European engagement. In short, the idea was to balance management well in relation to a situation that is very difficult to imagine, but it is possible, in other words, a situation in which we are dealing with a border that is not sufficiently protected and, at the same time, a country directly responsible for the border is not ready to cooperate with the European Border Guard. This is a very specific situation, but we were convinced that, in such a situation, the European Union cannot be empowered to act which would clearly be against the intentions of the host country, because we thought that this would only help to address the crisis and not help solve the crisis. This is where reasonable solutions were found based on interstate decisions, not committee decisions, not administrative or technocratic decisions. And we have a very quick compromise on that. This is a good example of a case where if we set a good definition of the problem The protection of the external border is certainly here. Which connects, and we choose the right measures, we are able to act quickly. And this was done quickly, because this regulation was adopted in less than 6 months, with a general Polish participation in this matter. Actually, we're in the stage of operating this. In the meantime, Poland has, after a 10-year delay, unprecedented in the European Union, led to the conclusion of at least a preliminary agreement on the location of the ESGiP Agency, the Frontex agency on which the European Border Guard Agency will be built in Warsaw. Which also has its meaning for the whole thing. In short, we are at the stage of the operationalisation of this project and building the capacity of the European Border Guard to act where it is needed. As far as running forward is concerned, I think in principle: if someone is in big trouble, he should be careful with nervous movements, because through them he can only make his situation worse. So, of course, we are in favour of looking for solutions that will show Europeans that the European Union meets their expectations, but I would be very careful to convince them that this is the right time to make some huge integration leaps. 'Cause if somebody's gonna propose some kind of massive integration leap tonight, I'm pretty sure it's gonna work. At the end, we will have an even more damaged, pieced, decomposed European Union. So I don't know. whether this is the right solution. However, if we are able to come up with a common definition of the problem, and this is about internal and external security, then I think that's the definition of the problem we're able to accept. So that we have serious challenges at the external borders of the European Union, and Europe today has a very limited and disproportionate contribution to its own security. This raises reasonable doubts in other countries, which are covered by the same broader security architecture. We are therefore inclined to discuss as constructively as possible how the European Union should build its defence and security capacity. However, it is a fact that we do not want to join other people's initiatives. I mean, we want to create initiatives that will be really common, because only then will we be able to hope for real reinforcement, not for declarative reinforcement, not just for another paper on this issue. And our expectations in this matter are very clear. First thing: we expect a clear guarantee for synergies between the European Union and NATO. The West today does not need conflict or even collision, or even lack of synergy between all the security elements that we have at hand. We must have the full assurance that the creation of a European security identity will not be supported only in order to separate ourselves from the logic of the West as a larger whole. The security factor is the West, not the European Union. The European Union is only a factor that can contribute I hope it's important, but still a contribution In something much wider, because the European Union is part of something much bigger, which I would simply call the West. NATO Synergy is the first problem here. I think we're very close to this stage. After signing the declaration, the NATO Union at the NATO summit in Warsaw we have for the first time a situation in which we can be fairly calm about the intentions of our other partners in the European Union. This Warsaw declaration is a very important step in building this common defence architecture, the common security architecture of the West. The second point is, of course, common definitions of threats. Because it's easy to say that we should be doing something more for security, and finally wake up in a situation where in the hierarchy of security problems we have only the South, terrorist threats, and only somewhere at the end of the list do we have indicated threats that are existential for us, i.e. no less important threats that flow from the East. So the second key condition in this matter is to establish common definitions of risks so that we can be clear about what the security instruments are meant to do. They are equally intended to serve threats in the South, threats in the East, threats of a terrorist nature, threats of a hybrid nature. These instruments are intended to serve this equally. It cannot be that here the hierarchy is set up only for certain countries, but for some countries of the European Union, which are actually experiencing a security deficit for other reasons. It's worth noticing. We see it, but we expect, let's say, a geographical balance. The third, most difficult aspect is the building of European capabilities. Here the European Union has a lot to say, because the Union has in its hand these instruments, and this is about building instruments for the capacity to support the defence industry. Today it is small money, tomorrow it will probably be much bigger, but Poland will not agree to such a development of a mechanism supporting the defence industry, which will be directed only at some of its fragments, which will be directed only at supporting, strengthening this industry where it is already very strong. Poland has aspirations to maintain its defence industry and to ensure that this industry has equal access... facilitated access to European support instruments. If we meet these 3 conditions, Poland will actually be very constructively oriented towards cooperation, on building a new security architecture based on the European Union. We don't see any problem, there's no taboo here. We are interested in this, but these conditions, our expectations must be taken seriously into account in building this scenario. If they are not taken into account, we will not really be able to talk about the EU system or the EU security promotion. Then they will be initiatives simply chosen countries, as is the case today. Today, the selected countries can work more closely in this area, in all three aspects: strategic and investment and innovation. If we are talking about really European EU added value, these elements must be taken into account. As far as the UK is concerned, Poland expects the same degree of guarantee to protect the rights acquired by EU 27 citizens, all citizens in the Islands, not only Poles, because the nature of these rights is to acquire them. This is done mode. Rights acquired under civilised conditions in civilised relations in this case between the Union and the State should be respected. It is a very separate matter to define the extent of the UK's budgetary commitments towards the EU budget. It's a commitment. Not to us either. Although it is very important to us but in relation to the European Union's multiannual financial framework. A commitment that was signed by the British Government. Of course, we are not interested in being too flexible in this matter, although we understand the political circumstances surrounding Britain's exit from the European Union. The non-member country obviously has less budgetary commitments towards the Union than the Member State. It's clear to us. But we will not agree to too easy juggling with dates and too easy juggling with sums, because the UK's budgetary commitments should simply be fulfilled. And this is of course a vital issue from a Polish point of view, because every loss in the EU cash register will very strongly affect those countries that are beneficiary countries, for example. on cohesion policy. Here is a ratio of 1:3, maybe even 1:4, but these are two separate cases. I do not know what is being considered on the British side, but the EU's position on this matter is completely clear. Both cases must be resolved and these cases are not part of the tender because they are of a separate nature. This does not exhaust the list of our expectations for the negotiations, because Poland is, contrary to everyday thinking, a country that sends products to the UK, also advanced, is a country that sends food, in short, is interested in ensuring that open borders for investment and trade are maintained. There is no reason for them not to be maintained. But there are certain conditions. This agreement must be proportionate and easy to buy these elements today is not possible, although I have never heard such a simple solution, i.e. so simple scenarios nobody, I think, on the other side of the negotiating table today writes. With regard to the level of flows from the EU budget to agriculture, this issue will certainly be one of the key elements of Poland's negotiating position towards the multiannual financial framework for which negotiations are starting today. This is a law and justice commitment, which is naturally noted in the process of shaping the Polish position towards the MFF after 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the question is asked by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator, you're on the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u12	Minister, well, I'll find it in the transcript, because it's fantastic. bon mot. We are in favour of joint initiatives, but we do not intend to join others' proposals. It's interesting how you can build a joint initiative. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I will explain...]] That's the first question, the first question, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Good.]] In any case, it seems to me that building a joint initiative is joining each other in some kind of proposal. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, no.]] And second of all, I have a question. You said that you were a little allergic to questions about whether Poland is solidarity with other countries about the immigration crisis, because you believe that our government has shown such solidarity. You mean what? That he accepted, as he said, after the election, those 7,000 immigrants negotiated? Or was he building a coalition so he wouldn't accept it at all, and that's the sign of solidarity? Did he agree to the humanitarian corridor proposed by Caritas? Does he agree to the orphan party? An increasing number of local governments want to accept Syrian orphans, and the government opposes it. This is certainly, evidently, the expressions of good will and solidarity in matters of immigration crisis. And as I understand it, the Minister will probably defend the position that this is an expression of solidarity. And finally, I would like to say this: Minister... [[One minute.]] ...Europe is indeed experiencing its difficulties, it needs unity. But as I observe the government's actions, I feel that despite the declaration of unity, we are always on the side of those who want to build unity and cohesion by reducing the powers of the European Union. It's a pretty interesting design. How can you do that? Why don't you explain it to us? In order for Europe to stay out of a lot of things, to leave it to the nations, then there will be more unity. This is the second such very cool design, often repeated by the highest authorities in Poland. A way to build unity by removing bricks, building a coherent wall by removing bricks. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Professor Michał Sewerynski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u14	Minister, you mentioned that the Slovak Presidency had already started some conceptual work on reform, in short, in the European Union. Does Poland have its own concept of such revitalization works? And if so, could you briefly present just a few points of our position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u15	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I also have a question about what Professor Seweryński was asking just now. Namely, if the Minister wanted to be more specific about how the agreement of votes was drawn in some debate. In the second half of 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing On the reform of the Union and how the most important countries of the European Union have placed themselves in this debate, I would ask for this. Were they in favour of some kind of reform? And what direction would this reform be in? Wasn't it? Were there any important conversations on this subject, or were there not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u17	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u18	Reform. Today we are at a stage where it is relatively easy to present a reform of the political agenda, i.e. the choice of objectives and means, so that the European Union can feel a greater level of unity That's for sure. As far as institutional reform is concerned, i.e. the introduction of mechanisms that would introduce a greater level of control over the European Union's actions by the Member States, I think that in principle there is agreement between the Member States and that the Treaty amendment is a kind of taboo in most Member States of the European Union. This is the reason why in this case we are at a stage of building capacity, building a belief that at some stage it is worth solving this problem, it is worth to enter into this discussion, of course understanding that it will be a very difficult discussion and that it will be a very difficult process. I fully understand the position of many politicians, in particular the western part of Europe, where the European process does not have as much confidence as in Poland, that any more fundamental institutional change or treaty can face huge political problems. But that does not mean that we must necessarily limit our aspirations in this matter, because we are actually convinced that without institutional changes, which make sense And here I can say at least one thing, but the very important thing about the far-reaching consequences of this must be to restore the control of Member States, national parliaments, real political communities, real democracy over the integration process, that will not work. This, of course, may involve not everything we can do together, but it's not a disaster. It seems to me that this is a realistic approach to what the Union can look like. The Union is not able to deal with any area of state policy to the same extent, not because of Poland or Slovakia or the Czech Republic, but because of the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Greece. If we were to propose today to those countries that feel this need, any kind of fiscal governance, then any such project would be rejected in each of these countries. So this is not a specific problem for Central Europe. On the contrary, Central Europe still retains above average confidence in the European process. However, we believe that mechanisms should be put in place for the security of this process, so as not to make mistakes, which would allow it more to be controlled, whether in a negative way by the possibility of rejecting initiatives or in a positive way by creating initiatives, at the level of national states, which are a necessary condition... i.e. their sense of control, impact is a prerequisite for building their sense of responsibility for the project. This is not an initiative that is necessarily seen as an enemy initiative towards this or another EU institution. No, it doesn't have to be that way. We see an important role to be played by the European Commission, a role that the European Commission sometimes neglects, and I mentioned this when I spoke about the common market. And we see reasons for the European Commission to even strengthen on issues such as the single market or the Brexit negotiations. But every body, especially with such difficult architecture as the Union, must have clear rules of the game and must have built-in, especially after such a slip like Brexit, control mechanisms to avoid political errors that cause alienation of other Member States and build the social potential to end this process. This potential is still not built in Poland, neither in the Czech Republic nor in Slovakia, while it is very high in Denmark, in the Netherlands, perhaps in several other countries. So when I hear, especially on that side, voices that we should drop this topic, I'm a little surprised, because maintaining the status quo is a simple way to make the Brexit scenario repeat itself. And we're gonna pretend we're surprised again. I don't think it's in the interests of the EU. And this is a very good ground for developing the answer to the question of what can be done together, what is not and what is a condition of unity. Of course, a simple mechanism for rejecting further competences or political objectives of the European Union is not a solution. I think that none of the elements of my speech today can be interpreted so that it is only about minimising the role of the European Union. No. But just as damaging would be the idea, which would be equally simple not to say simple, the principle that the condition for success and exit from the crisis in the European Union is to increase its competence. Today, increasing the competences of the European Union will be rejected in most Member States of the European Union. Perhaps not in Poland, I am not sure, we still do not know whether it is in Poland. But we know at 100% that increasing the competences of the European Union today is a simple way to decompose this Union. So, so much comfort to say to ourselves that we can choose between more of the Union and less of the Union, unfortunately we do not have. We must answer the question of what the Union can do, what we can do together. And yes, indeed, there is something like this: to build a sense of the participation of the Member States and to give up thinking in terms of joining other people's initiatives, because each Member State should have a sense of exactly the same level of subjectivity, the same level of co-ownership, the same level of co-creation of initiatives. It is surprising to me that one can defend the thesis that the sense and greatest wisdom of European politics such as Poland is the willingness to join in other people's initiatives. To tell you more, it seems to me that a large part of the European political class has not long been expected from countries as large as Poland to be a recipient all the time, someone who is willing to join in other people's initiatives. We are expected to create initiatives. We need one too. Speaking of which, I am not talking about the government or about me and the senator, but about the social sense of ownership of this process, and the sense of co-ownership is not built up by passively joining other people's already defined initiatives. These initiatives need to be created, not baked on the face, because we are in the middle of a situation, to join somebody else's initiatives, proposals that were written somewhere else from A to Z. This is a nonsense assumption, which does not serve European integration at all, and the intentions, I understand, were precisely such as to help this integration. That's how integration doesn't... I am talking about the social point of view, because perhaps the comfort of one or the other policy will be ensured in this way, and if aspirations are low, then it will certainly be ensured. However, for social reasons, it is to build a sense of passiveness, to crawl in the tail of this process. The Union is in a serious situation today and requires a serious discussion of initiatives that can be shared, shared responsibility that can be created and not passively joined with others. You can join in when you are an accession country. Then you actually have no choice and you have to join in, transpose the acquis, solutions, achievements Whether we like him or not That was created by someone else because we weren't in this organization at the time, into our own system. We are in this organization today, so the logic of joining should be once and for all, so to speak, locked in a deep drawer. I think that's it. [[You haven't said anything about solidarity...]] [[Yeah, migration policy.]] About solidarity? I'd love to. I feel like I've been talking about this, but I'm going to say it again. There are 60 million people in North Africa and the Middle East who had to leave their homes for various reasons. That's the scale of the problem, and that's the minimum. Some estimates are higher, the dynamics of this process do not indicate that there will be fewer. So to talk about the fact that admitting 5, 10 or 100 people is an expression of solidarity in overcoming the migratory crisis is a storytelling. It's a storytelling story that maybe sounds good. In the picture, in the meme you can show them Not a responsible attitude towards the migration crisis. The migration crisis needs to be resolved on the spot. It is necessary to ensure that the sources of the situation in which 60 million people have left their homes are eliminated. We need to bring stability, humanitarian aid, development aid to these countries and not talk about the fact that the humanitarian corridor to one country or another will solve the problem of millions of people. I really... If we are to talk seriously about the migration crisis, let us take note of the scale of this problem. What's more, I'm afraid the great majority of these people don't want to go at all. It is not known with which past of life to Europe, including Poland. This is not a serious treatment of the migration crisis. The government has taken a very serious position on this matter. We're co-participants... We are not directly affected by this crisis, none of its direct consequences hit Poland directly, but in the name of solidarity It is worth remembering this; it makes no sense to hide this pride, especially if you are a Polish politician... It is worth remembering that even though we do not see any direct consequences in Poland, we are a participant in all EU actions in this area. These actions, I'll remind you, are not free. We show solidarity, but not counted in several zlotys for 10 orphans, these are actions counted in millions of euros, which Poland offers in the name of European solidarity for EU, UN and own programmes, made under its own flag. The level of humanitarian aid during the first year of this government, this parliamentary majority, has doubled, so I really don't understand why we should continue this discussion. It is better to be proud together that Poland takes such processes seriously than to fight within some party tension about things that matter only symbolically. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I didn't get an answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u20	Maybe I can clarify that question. I asked the Minister to present how the main players in the European Union placed themselves in relation to the reform projects, Germany, Italy, France, Spain, let us narrow this down to these four countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u21	On political reform Very modest, but moving in the right direction. That started in Bratislava, we reached a full agreement. We are somewhat convinced that we need to think about what the Union should do and what it should not do, because the assumption that as the Union declares... Because the Union is easy to come by declarations, words. It seemed that if the Union declared that it would solve all the problems of today's world, it would be good. Well, it's not gonna be okay. This will only result in an even greater profession, because the Union has no instruments to heal the structural situation in one or the other Southern country or solve the problem of public debt and its handling in the third Southern country. There are no such instruments, so it's better not to promise things that can't be done. We agreed that we should focus on migration, security and economic growth, with the assumption that these instruments are actually in the hands of the Union, namely the common market, possibly the budget. Such a deselection of the Union's objectives has already taken place in Bratislava. We are all in agreement that there is no point in extending the list of issues that the Union needs to address, but institutionally this case looks diametrically different. It's for different reasons. I think there is concern in the Western countries about the future of the political process related to the Union. Let us remember that all these countries have experienced directly that every referendum that is related to the Union, even loosely bound, is lost in advance. There has not been such an EU referendum in recent years that would have been won, even in countries where politicians are in a very preaching mood, telling us that we do not understand the European process. It seems to me that this is a proof of a blatant detachment from reality, because it is there that every referendum in every case that is only slightly rubbed against the EU process is simply lost. It happens for a reason. Well, it's worth thinking about. This is one of the reasons why the treaty reform process is treated on that side as a taboo theme. I think that in the case of Central Europe there is a belief that... Well, here we are dealing with a very large group of countries with less potential, therefore the belief that their impact on the final shape of any treaty agreement will be limited. There is concern that the Treaty will not bring solutions that need to be put in place, and then there will be a lack of capacity. Probably different from in Poland To simply reject a treaty that they will not like. I think it is relatively easy for us to say that we can open negotiations and that if these negotiations have an adverse effect, we will reject this treaty. It is quite simple and logical, but I think that in many other countries such a simple conclusion cannot be carried out, because the political pressure that will be exerted... In a hypothetical situation where we would already have a new treaty, the political pressure that would have been exerted on certain countries... Let us remember that there is a common practice in the Union to repeat a referendum when the outcome is wrong, so this political pressure will cause that many of these countries will not be able to bear the burden of resistance to the wrong outcome of an intergovernmental conference. I think that's a problem too. It's totally different, but it's important. That causes this limited capacity to reflect on the Treaty. But this is going to change, because the European Union will certainly do a lot to reform its policy effectively and, contrary to these ambitious, sometimes evangelical stories about the need for more EU, it will set a realistic plan for what the Union can and cannot do so. And this will go well enough, but in my opinion we will not heal the Union in this way, because the risk of making wrong decisions and making political mistakes will still exist due to a lack of control or insufficient control of the European process by parliaments or national governments. It's about check and balance mechanisms that would guarantee, I'd say, a safer flight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u23	Minister, I will refer to this last point. Surely it is true that Brexit has shown that certain treaty changes are needed. I understand that there are a lot of concerns in the European Union to the west of us, and this subcutaneous anti-EU movement, nationalism, makes European leaders in the Netherlands or France not very willing to negotiate on the treaty. Poland knows that, for strategic reasons, the Union must change this treaty in response to Brexit, but I have met with the opinion of the MEPs that today any treaty changes would be detrimental to Poland. You say that we can then, of course, reject this in a referendum. But how hypothetical at the moment would openly mean, in this game, with the political forces that decide that the treaty would be at least tactical in the short term dangerous for Poland? Because rejecting the treaty is not something welcome in Europe and, although this is how we mark our subjectivity, we would once again be a subject that would be criticised in some way. The second question concerns the winter package and the mechanism without consultation. What are the deeper reasons for such a way of implementing things that can really hurt us very much or cost us? Is it a certain ideology, or is it really a belief in the necessity of this kind of movement? What's the mechanism? Third and fourth questions, close. In my opinion, one of the reasons for Brexit was the extra-treating of the European Commission. What was the de facto practice of the European Commission in the last six months after Brexit? Was the European Commission more vulnerable and acting within the framework of the Treaty, or was it after Brexit trying to extend, as if, verbally at least, its scope of competence? And that raises the question: if Mr Juncker says let's put ourselves to Trump and disagree with 2% in the case of military budgets and contributions to NATO, this is just a publicist, is this something that is the position of the European Commission enshrined in the Treaties?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u24	Thank you very much. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm just interested in what the Minister was talking about in the last block. That is, the participation of Poland in the implementation of projects about which I would like to hear two words from the Minister. The European Fund for Strategic Investments, if I have read correctly in the report, has been increased to PLN 500 billion. I am interested in the stage at which this fund is being implemented, and just as we are, so to speak, involved in this element in obtaining support for the most important European investment. Just like the Minister said. In terms of investment in defence? Or maybe there are other elements that we are looking for as Poland when it comes to supporting these investments. That's one thing. Second question. I read in the report, and the Minister has confirmed it, the modern single market. This is the opinion: we are concerned about adopting protectionist measures not only in countries but also in the European Commission. Two elements were mentioned by the Minister. On road and pay matters. Are there other elements which, from the point of view of Poland's interests, could pose a threat to the protectionist actions of individual countries? As in the European Commission's report. Could you say two sentences to the Minister on this? And two important elements that the Minister didn't mention. Is the Energy Union something that expires when it comes to the European Union? And a bank union. If you can ask for two words about the European Deposit Guarantee System. Is there an agreement, or is there still a phase in the country-by-country arrangements under this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u26	Thank you very much. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question concerns the migration crisis. It is a severe disease, and the disease is better to treat, of course, causally and not symptomaticly. And you're right to say that's how she should be treated. But at the same time, you said that this crisis was intentionally triggered. I understand that it was deliberately induced by some entities. Could you identify these entities and their specific intentions and objectives? And the second question, about CET. We will now wonder until ratification what to do with this agreement. It would be good to have some specific information about the impact of this agreement on the Polish economy and Poland in general, but also on other European countries. Have you developed in the government at least the concept of tools that you will follow the impact of this agreement on Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u29	I'll start at the end. The instruments for assessing each trade agreement are always the same. We must observe the trade balance, we must observe how it affects the maintenance of standards, particularly in sensitive areas, whether the concerns that have been addressed in the Senate will actually be confirmed, as well, regarding the fact that CETA contains mechanisms that can easily undermine the European Union's regulatory order. I am not saying that this should be completely ruled out, but you have to be careful in this type of assessment. We will have the comfort of looking at the practice of this agreement. We will have hard data on how this agreement will affect the Polish or European market. When it comes to... a lot here depends on economic operators as well. Let's remember that this kind of deal is opening a certain door. But whether these doors will be used by specific economic operators or it will be an attractive direction on both sides, we don't really know that. What kind of economic interaction has caused, for example. the common market in the European Union, no one was able to describe until we started practicing the functioning of the Community market. And I remember that also then it was pointed out that the Community market would be a very uncomfortable place for the Polish underdeveloped economy. In many areas I'm not saying that in every area, but in many areas. The opposite turned out to be true. In many areas Poland The Polish entrepreneurs showed their economic vitality, which gave Poland a huge leap in economic position. The development of many companies in Poland, including those companies we are all proud of, would not be possible without a common market. He wouldn't be so fast or so spectacular. So we will have, as I say, some comfort in seeing how the commercial part of this agreement will affect the European and Polish economy. Of course, we'll be looking into it. When it comes to generating the migration crisis, I said something much more light, I said that it cannot be ruled out that also in geopolitical situations, in security situations in the Middle East and North Africa, this element can be taken into account, because profits, some kind of profits of our geopolitical opponents in a situation of total political instability in Europe are obvious, so I would be surprised if this factor was not taken into account in various types of calculations. And yet all our geopolitical competitors are present in the Middle East, often extremely active. So, as I say, I'd be surprised if this element didn't play a role, but I'd be far from saying it is. It's just possible. As far as participation in the European Fund for Strategic Investments is concerned, until 2016 Poland had successfully notified one project, probably a very important project, concerning milk powder, for a round sum, although not terrifying, to say the sum in terms of the value of this fund. This was the reason why for a long time we had doubts that this fund was not designed in such a way as to hinder access to it for the countries of Central Europe, these economies. The Ministry of Development has done a great deal to activate activities and administration, and entrepreneurs, to reach out for money from this fund, and here there has been a radical leap. Poland today has, as I remember correctly, eleven projects, often much larger than the said one project from those first years of the fund. This was the reason why we considered that we could support not only the extension of the mandate, but also the extension of the scope of this fund, because I think that the learning curve of the Polish economy and the Polish administration in this matter jumped up, so we are a little calmer that we will be able to be, in the right proportion, beneficiaries of the strategic investment fund. As far as protectionism is concerned, the main field here is transport, because the nature of this service is precisely that it is extremely attractive, it is not a coincidence that in transport Poland is a very serious player. In this case, the ability to restrict competition is extremely significant, as it is very easy to rely not only on social guarantees but also on security and any other regulation of such services. This is definitely the main field of confrontation. The posting of workers concerns many other industries, but the industry is focused on really serious economic interests. The road package repeats the same logic. This, of course, is not the only field, but it is certainly the main area. The question arises as to whether the European Commission will be able to overcome the many years of infirmity Integrity based on the same protectionism In terms of completion of the services market. Today we have a proposal for a European service card. This is a reasonable solution, it is a very ambitious plan and we will be happy to support it. However, we will see whether the European Commission will fight with the same determination to ensure that the services market in the European Union, which today represents an excellent part of the excellent majority of the value of our economies, is finally complete and can finally overcome the barriers that exist today in excess in many Member States. Their purpose is not to protect the quality or any other noble values associated with our social model. The aim of all these restrictions is only to restrict competition and protectionism. There's no other motivation here. With regard to the Banking Union, the proposals for guarantees and deposits appear to be absolutely logical, obvious, building the resilience of the banking system to shocks. The problem with these proposals is that we are trying to report them when the damage has already occurred, when the risks associated with private deposits are very unevenly spread between Member States. This is not a direct Polish problem because we are outside the euro area and our banking system is well protected. We have rather good experience in protecting against these types of systemic risks, although individual cases may look different. However, the fact that this damage has already taken place and that the risks associated with deposit guarantees are very uneven, radically uneven between Member States makes it very difficult to find a compromise on this issue. And it will be very difficult to close this process. That's my assessment. As far as the energy union is concerned, the draft of this union from the very beginning, when it was announced under the flag of the European Commission, was very far removed from its original assumptions in Warsaw. Today, the process of a certain type of energy union colonization by climate targets is almost complete. I, of course, appreciate... I remember that there are some aspects related to the transparency of contracts, building resilience to energy disruptions, energy carriers between borders, but I also remember that they existed earlier, so the added value of the Energy Union in these areas is quite limited, while the added value of the Energy Union in terms of strengthening climate policy or decarbonisation policy is very clear. In this sense, the winter package is a very good sign of a complete breach of the balance between energy and climate objectives, because the sense of this reduction is obviously the elimination of coal as an energy source in the European Union, the inability to actually finance such initiatives. Today, there is no place in the European Union to invest in traditional energy, and it is not possible, in principle, without special measures of the type of power market. In the case of this solution, the capacity market is to be limited to selected sources only. I believe that this is because the European Union is, to put it mildest, overly susceptible to the hypothesis that the Union can be the place where it will lead not only to the elimination of coal, but also to all other fossils from the energy mix of still very industrialized parts of the world. In my opinion, this hypothesis is difficult to defend. It brings excessive costs to the European economy, as well as to the Polish economy. Politically, it is a completely unsustainable strategy, but still very strong in Brussels. And this is certainly one of the key economic problems between Warsaw and Brussels. If you were looking for such a really strategic problem, that would be the problem. If this was not the case, Polish membership of the European Union would certainly look better, but this problem exists, unfortunately it returns to us in various legislative initiatives and builds a very large, extremely large level of disparities in economic interests. Consider that, in many other areas, we have an obvious synergy of interests and we remember it, but there is a very serious decline in this matter. As far as the Treaty is concerned, you can imagine different versions of such a treaty, but it will still only be imaginations, it will be merely academic considerations. So I think that such an overly timid attitude is premature, because so far neither of the capitals has even presented any part of the treaty. We're talking about rules that we should follow. Poland is speaking the loudest, we are talking about what we are talking about. The application of the principle of national control in Treaty architecture is very easy to imagine. It's a fundamental shift, but it's very easy to do. As for this principle, let's say a paradigm, we have the impression that the Member States are fully convinced that this should be done, but they would prefer to avoid doing so at Treaty level. However, the Treaty will have to be amended one way or another, as Brexit cannot be completed without Treaty amendment. Beauty of art. Fifty is that it suggests a simplified Treaty amendment procedure, but this simplified Treaty amendment procedure I mean, it's easy and it's nice, it's very limited. In my opinion, it only concerns the accession process, and in this case we are dealing with the opposite process. Of course, from a political point of view, we can say that the nature of these processes is similar, because this is an in-out issue, so let's say that they are similar. But, from a certain point of view, it is very difficult to defend, in order to recognise that the simplified procedure must work here. And if this simplified scenario is repealed by lawyers, I guess, because I don't think by politicians Then we will have to negotiate a treaty anyway. In any case, other forces will rise, as will the European Parliament, which is already the institution most interested in bringing about a treaty change. I agree that the European Parliament's recommendations on this matter would not be particularly beneficial for the Member States, and I think that they would be to defend perhaps in two or three Member States, I mean the ratification process... Well, I don't think that the recommendations there are to be defended in a larger group of countries, these proposals are completely separate from the political reality of the European Union, and I would not take them completely seriously. When we really deal with this matter among countries, these proposals will be much closer to political reality. And in this sense they do not have to be such a nightmare for those who are afraid to debate on this issue today. I admit that I see risks, I see problems, especially if there is to be a European convention. I think it would be a difficult experience, especially for the participants of this convention. This may also apply to you, because the Convention also provides for the participation of national Parliament delegates, so seriously prepare yourself for this perspective. Speaking to my counterparts, who have been in this process for a very long time, I can see something called the post-convent trauma of 2000. She's very alive, it's a syndrome that... I don't think modern medicine is able to respond easily to these kinds of problems, there's no therapy that would easily lead the delinquents out of this state. I understand that because I also remember watching from the outside of the convention, looking at them, and I understand that it was a difficult experience. In fact, it ended with the fact that the draft European Constitution fell very quickly, and in quite a spectacular way. I get it all. However, this does not change the fact that something more serious must be done with the Union if this Union is to continue. [[The European Commission...]] But I don't remember what... [[2%.]] 2% ... [[Please...]] That is to say, fortunately, the European Commission has no influence on how we are fulfilling our Natovian commitments on arms expenditure. And this is exactly the mode of political declarations that are, to be clear, excessive, that is, they do not create any positive added value in difficult, I agree with this very difficult dialogue with the new American administration. If we act like this, tweets and press releases, it turns out we're wasting time. I think there are serious reasons to believe that we have common security interests, common economic, political interests, and that we must stop this kind of communication. I agree that both sides are involved in this communication, here full agreement, but we would prefer it to be less.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, my questions are three specific questions, they are actually only about the winter package, which, as you yourself said, concerns us to a large extent, as well as creates tensions and problems. While I am not mistaken, this is mainly about a regulation pointing at 650 g CO2, no more, at 1 kWh as a border from which EU funds can support energy investment. I think that's what this is all about. And my specific questions are as follows. What is the position of brown coal? In fact, all traditional combustion processes always involve coal, and as a result about the same amount of heat generated is emitted by CO2. But here, in general, they have an impact on this, I would say, political decisions as regards certain tables, conversions, etc. My specific question is: are brown coal and such fossil fuels privileged? That's the first question. Second specific question. I'd ask the Minister to give it to me. Probably not from memory, or I ask you to send me an answer. Which regulations or annexes to the European regulation represent the classification of these fuels due to the calculation of CO2 emissions. For example, I know that there is definitely zero CO2 emissions for sludge from the treatment plant, and that's also where the carbon contained in it burns, so the CO2 is actually emitted. It's the same with gas... Although in the case of gas it is slightly different, because there is mainly methane, which burns slightly differently, but also the result of the combustion of gas creates CO2 and water, i.e. here the amount of heat obtained also creates CO2 probably... So it is subject to certain classifications and political decisions. I would like to know which document or possibly what annexes this is. I think there's some equivalent to nuclear energy. In the case of traditional nuclear energy, such as is now used, there is also only carbon-free combustion. It's a completely different kind of combustion, but it's basically also burning. There's some kind of equivalent over there. I don't think she's counted completely zero. But I'm curious how it looks, and these issues will be in these regulations. One last question... So I asked about brown coal, about what document regulates these issues, where it can be seen how precisely it is regulated. Third question. Is that what we're discussing, e.g. At the meeting of the committee, the government is to take a stand The question of the creation of a cooperation agency for energy regulators in Ljubljana is therefore also one of the so-called. the winter package, or is it a question of complementing previous energy regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Jacek Włosowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have four questions for you about the present and the future. Your report is about last six months, but life has its challenges. The first question concerns Greece. As far as Greece, with which the European Union has many problems, as far as I know, there was a crisis in the impasse that lasted for several months the day before yesterday. Greece has been granted another loan of EUR 86 billion, which, according to what I have read, shows It is intended to be for the Greeks now, and the conditions for granting it are to be reforms which are to take place only after 2018. Now it's hard to even tell how much Greece got the so-called. help, because in my opinion it is filtering a dead economy, not giving help. Would you mind saying a few words about that? Because the meeting took place two days ago, February 20th. The second question concerns Brexit. How Brexit will look from the legal side and from the real side of the movement, the future will show. I think there are different scenarios, starting with hard Brexit. Mr Schulz, who was expected by the former head of the European Parliament, called the European Parliament's meeting on the first Tuesday after the referendum through a scenario including, for example, access to the common market and ending with other scenarios, which include: the division of Great Britain and the participation of Scotland in the European Union, whether on a full basis or only with access to the full market. What are the main currents at present, at least in the European Commission, also in the European Parliament, as to what this Brexit would look like? And two more strict questions. economic, security-related. The first concerns Europe's southern energy supply, gas. On the one hand, the built pipeline from Azerbaijan, on the other hand Russia's recent agreement with Turkey and the statements of Russian diplomats who say that the last part of the pipeline from Azerbaijan, that is, the trans-Adrian part... that there might be a problem with its implementation and that the Russians would gladly hook up to this part. Of course, the blockade of the southern pipeline by Bulgaria has been implemented by the Union. However, I believe that such ideas are still somewhere in the heads of the Russians. Even the fact that the pipes in Varna are still lying indicates that the idea was not abandoned. What is the current attitude with regard to the implementation of southern power supply and energy solidarity, European security? How is it perceived? The fourth, last question, concerns economic matters, transport, mainly as regards China. The Chinese are interested in Europe I am referring here to the purchase of a port in Piraeus, the plans of a possible cargo airport located somewhere in eastern Europe and the railway line. We in the case of this railway line are the main players, because this railway line, whether in Łódź or in Sławków... It ends in Poland. What is the attitude of the Polish government towards these plans? And does the European Union have any ideas for an approach to this issue, so to speak, from the level of the Union, or does it leave it at bilateral level to individual countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you're Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u35	In part, Minister, you have answered my questions. And speaking of Senator Włosowicz's question... Because one of my questions is a reference. I'll start with him. He'll probably let you block our questions. Namely Brexit has 2 faces. And the other side is Britain. Of course, neither the European Commission nor the Member States can fully anticipate the negative effects on the UK, the effects of this process that has begun. But we can see that Britain does not feel so much, as it predicts that such negative effects may occur. And I would therefore like to ask you if there is any thought at all, not a diplomatic practice, but a thought, in any EU structure that would go to such a conclusion, that, contrary to the whispering of Brexit's reality, it is not the only one, the only way leading Britain and the European Union, but the opposite: that Brexit exists as evidence on the And I'm gonna get right to my second question. It is a way of return showing that again, in terms of leading thought, there is no European Commission, and also other EU institutions, no authority, collective or individual, which could reform the Union, and that without an external factor, e.g. Britain's return to the European Union, there is no reform of the European Union, without the involvement of national states there is no reform of the European Union. The enchanting of reality by the word "reform," which does not actually have any real basis... Because your words also showed that, in principle, no EU institution is able to present even a piece of a positive project for the future, but it is in an analytical form, that is, we know that there is a crisis, but there is basically no recipe for how to get out of it. So it's these two combined questions. What is the possible alternative of Brexit in the form of looking for a way back as part of the European Union's recovery? And there is this issue of the repair of diplomacy, but certainly not of the diplomacy of the European Commission, because it is not capable of doing so in conjunction with the motto of the word'reform' today, but of the de facto start of a diplomatic fight in national countries for reform, until, of course, the reform of the Treaty of the European Union. So these two questions are related. And a third, short, completely different story. Namely, Poland is undoubtedly an insubordinate member of the European Union. At least that's how you see it. She's being rehearsed in a variety of ways. This includes: immigration policy, this applies to many other issues. Were we able and able to develop a propaganda policy on the Polish position, with the instruments that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has with regard to the institutions of the European Union, so that we are not laughed at? Because what you are telling us about our commitment to the immigration problem, which we do not feel directly and we could be unsolidar, and we are solidarity-based, is a proof that we need such a Polish strategic policy at the piar-propaganda level towards EU structures, in which we would not dare to develop any hats directed against Poland. Because if we don't, we can also use hats for e.g. Sweden, in view of what is happening there, to the countries and nations of Western Europe, which are now living in fear of the immigration problem. There you go, we can speak the same language. Don't we want to do this? But then what mechanisms are created within the European Union, thanks to which representatives of nations, prime ministers, chancellors, important figures of political life should not refuse to hat Polish stay in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u37	I think that in the European Union, in such debates that may sometimes be more bitter, one must be very careful to distinguish between who is speaking. There is a significant difference between how political dialogue is formulated at the level of government, because governments have to behave slowly less and governments have to act responsibly, given that we are doomed to cooperate and to understand our own reasons, and how it is formulated at the level of parliaments, which are allowed to do more, because this is the nature of the parliamentary mandate, Parliament is from being honest about what we think, so it may look different here. But it is not our role to respond to every speech of a parliamentarian, it is certainly not the role of a government. And yet completely different rights, especially today, are governed by the media debate, especially after all its changes in recent years. Me, from my point of view. I can speak for myself, I believe... I say something very uncomfortable: I have a very moderate faith in the instruments of communication, PR and what today is the subject of such deep interest. On the other hand, I believe very deeply in the seriousness of actions, not just words, in the consequence. And I think this should be the main lantern for the functioning of the government. Of course, it is worth helping these processes and these behaviors, in this sense, to illuminate them and show them, but most of all it is the content that matters. For this content I am able on every forum, not only in the Polish Senate, but on every other forum... Because this text shows consistency, seriousness and responsibility. That's the ground. As I say, I have a moderate faith that it is good to engage in activities that are overly chaotic, especially today, and to replace such actions with what is the essence of things, the essence of calling in such a place. As far as Brexit is concerned, it is, of course, highly unlikely. The outcome of this referendum was not an accident. The beliefs behind the negative outcome of the British referendum are still present. I do not know if they are stronger. In the British debate. This is a serious decision, so it is not easy to reverse the consequences of this serious decision... I have the impression that some in continental Europe tend to improve their mood by claiming that it was just a misunderstanding. No, it's not a misunderstanding. It's very serious... We may have different opinions on the quality of the arguments behind this serious decision, but we must admit that this decision is certainly serious. The United Kingdom is the last country to ignore the outcome of a referendum or repeat a referendum because there is a political need. This isn't the case. With these reservations in mind, one can imagine today a fantastic, but not entirely imaginary, scenario in which there is such a profound reflection on the renewal of the European project that this project is beginning to be attractive to the UK, because it is simply very different. This can be imagined, but the EU institutions are certainly not set up to write such a scenario. To be honest, I do not expect this from the European Commission. The role of the European Commission is to enforce the Treaty and dot. Such a scenario can only be written among the prominent political leaders of the countries of the European Union. If such a scenario is ever written, it will definitely take place with the participation of Poland. Perhaps such a plan will meet the interest of British leadership, however it will look at the moment, at this moment X, but today it is a very remote perspective, it is a unlikely scenario. Today we have a much more pressing problem to solve. Art design. 50 requires a very fast pace of action. The rapid pace of action on this issue, the internal problems of the European Union and the very weak political leadership that is wobbling in positions To make it even harder, today it wobbles in jobs They make it very difficult today to even imagine a place where such a thought might occur. We have made such a thought now, but the readiness for such a profound change must be very firm, deeply rooted, so that it will bring far-reaching political results. So it's unlikely today. Brexit, contrary to what some politicians in continental Europe would like, not so much will bring reflection that we did something very wrong that we hurt each other, but now we apologize to Brussels... No, there will be no such reflection, there is no reason or reason for it. Brexit illustrates an extremely difficult dilemma from a British point of view. If our position, with all our sympathy for the United Kingdom and with all our conviction that we should shape our future relationship as close as possible, logical and internally coherent, that the common market is not divisible, that we cannot afford to offer special status even in the case of the United Kingdom... We cannot afford this not only because of the future of the common market within the Union, but also because of some honesty towards countries such as Switzerland and Norway, which have agreed to these rules of play in terms of cooperation with the Union. Yes, these rules of the game are quite demanding, but in this case it is in the European interest that they be demanding. The point is that politics should not deform these rules too much, with all its sympathy and conviction that it is worth finding a third solution that would liberate us from this square of a circle. But today it seems that from a British point of view it has been properly understood. As I read the speech from Lancaster House, I see it as a very good understanding of the essence of the European position. We have agreed on this, but the consequences are far-reaching. The consequence is the rejection of the common market and, in principle, the rejection of the customs union. It has not been made clear there, but it is spoken of as a customs union. I don't know what that would mean, because it's very difficult to imagine a customs union with a single country. The critical point in building a customs bond is simply the customs border, and the customs border will have colossal consequences within the United Kingdom, not only because of the tension within this federation between England and Scotland, and especially between England and Ireland. Building any border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland Even if it is an electronic border through which smartphones are used, it would be risky from the point of view of the peace process. It's gonna be exactly these devices and exactly these buildings. Even if they are made of cardboard Which will be the first to be blown up. So the internal contradictions of this position are obvious. They are not so important from our point of view, although we too have a problem with how to keep the relationship as close as possible in a situation where we have such a serious problem with the common market, probably also with the customs union, and certainly with the control bodies. Any close link to the common market, even if it is to be re-invented, must be established by common control bodies that ensure compliance with the rules of the agreement. In the case of the common market, such an audit authority shall be the Court of Justice, which, in the UK position, has been rejected as an institution which could exercise control in any form. So there remain institutions, I would say, much lighter, non-court institutions, such as the Association Council. We have a serious problem with this because for the first time this deep, such intense relations would be protected by the body so weak, located outside the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. We too feel the quadrature of this approach, but it is much more felt on the British side, also because of the internal situation in the United Kingdom itself. It's very difficult to write any script today. You can, of course, list different scenarios, which are 100, but it is very difficult to tell which one is the most likely. Rather, you can say which are less likely. It is certainly less likely that there is a close link with the common market. There is also a less likely scenario of staying in a customs union that exists today, and so there is an even more difficult question: what would it look like in this special case? It is unlikely to maintain the linear nature of the relationship that we are dealing with in the case of Norway or Switzerland. Anything else is possible, but it is a common problem to maintain trade relations that will be difficult to preserve, also on the basis of WTO rules, because the production volumes in the Community market are so complicated that, from a commercial point of view, in many cases this will not be resolved even within the WTO. I think that the main beneficiaries of this whole process are international lawyers, who today have a radically growing number of very unusual cases going on and before EU courts and WTO courts. In the newspaper it may look very transparent, but each case will give rise to an incredible amount of doubt. And it is in our common interest to minimize these doubts. It is not in anybody's interest that we take years to conduct ourselves in courts and arbitrations to determine how customs problems should be solved, i.e. where, to whom and how duty should be enforced. There's a great deal of confusion here. As far as China is concerned, the Ministry of Development, which deals with this with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so to speak, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not the EU. And the MON, because the MON also plays a ownership role in relation to those places that the senator mentioned. As far as gas pipelines are concerned, the European Union is today, despite the fact that, as far as firmness is concerned, it has defended its AC, i.e. the integrity of its legal system as regards its applicationability in the case of gas pipelines from the south and north. But it's not said, like we're saying it. They wanted, directly and definitively, that is to say, to remain at a high level of uncertainty as to how to shape the legal regime for all those pipelines that were mentioned as well as the North Gas pipeline. This is another failure of the European Commission. The European Commission should act much more substantively and definitively on this issue, because there is no other institution that could determine whether, in the case of a pipeline, in this case across the sea, we are applying the legal regime of the European Union between a third country and the European Union. If we apply it, we judge it to almost everyone. Perhaps it would be different for small investments, but they are linked to larger corridors. All these investments are losing their profitability because they are all building their profitability on a legal advantage, i.e. on a model that is appropriate for such investments by countries such as Russia. I understand that it is not a matter for the Union to enter into the way Russia shapes its investment in this area and its contractual regime in this area anywhere in the world, but if it is addressed to the European Union, it means a vital interest to safeguard the sustainability of the legal order of the European Union in this matter. Because it does not make any sense, including political, building the acquis for years, very sublime and based on a certain political balance, and then, when it is to be used in a critical situation, recognising that it does not apply. As it will not only give an unjustified advantage to an investor and a country that cannot be seen as a friendly country of the European Union, it will also be extremely unfair to investors who comply with the rules and should be treated equally, also because of competition issues. This Union thread Of course, it is the subject of our deep reflection. About the last thing on my list, which means... Sorry, there were other questions about the package... As far as Greece is concerned, this is a matter within the euro area. Here we are dealing with a radically different perception of what is happening, because the countries of the payers are convinced that they transfer billions of euros in guarantees or live cash, and not only in Greece today it does not lead to at least an economic recovery, but also there is, perhaps not entirely unfounded, the belief that this money goes directly to creditors, i.e. institutions and countries of this part of the euro area that are not experiencing public finance problems. In this context, it arouses a very high level of political frustration. It is very difficult to explain to the public that this is the money that is a very difficult leverage for years, for some reason impossible to carry out reforms, in a situation where this money does not go to citizens, but only goes to... maybe not only, but to a large extent to creditors. Here, too, we are dealing with the quadrature of the wheel, because both sides have legitimate expectations in this matter. As far as the winter package is concerned, the key element is, of course, limiting the use of the power market. And here's the limit that's going to hit any kind of profitable technology. I'm not talking about experimental, academic technologies used in the privacy of laboratories. Any viable industrial type of installation based on the burning of any coal, including lignite, is not feasible using the power market. Without the power market, it is all the more impossible to implement. So, the effect of this, no matter what we think about the shape of this regulation. It's very clear. It actually works like a ban because there is no other model for financing this type of investment in Europe today. As far as methodological issues are concerned, I really need to look for information on delegated acts, because this is implemented at the level of delegated acts. There are methodological assumptions to account for emissions at EU level in a specific, more objective way. And this issue will be very timely and important from a global point of view, because, in fact, apart from the fact that we have an internal problem with the adequacy of converting these emissions, we have an even bigger global problem, because we globally have no common system, we only have commitments. Without establishing a methodology that has some credibility at global level, at the level of UN agreements, we will be faced with a situation in which countries commit themselves to specific emission reductions, but will do so in the most friendly way possible, which may result in the inadequateness of these activities. The next climate conference in Marrakesh will be devoted to this to a large extent. This is an extremely important aspect of global climate policy so that we maintain a similar level of commitment. Even if we believe that these obligations must be so different, because we politically believe that this makes sense, then at least let them be enforceable. In the Union, they are enforceable, and I think it's too good, and it's very different globally. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u38	Thank you very much. [[Yet, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u39	If I may... There was still a small question, but first of all there was a request that the Minister might be polite to send a link... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes, references to...]] ...to documents and attachments. I also asked about this current EU regulation on the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, which is to be located in Ljubljana. Is this within the framework of this, or is this an adjustment to the Union's previous energy rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u40	This is a development, but qualitatively this is a complete change of situation, because such a far-reaching strengthening of the European regulator means limiting the power of the national regulator, which is directly linked to the price-setting mechanisms for final energy consumers, which is, of course, also very difficult politically, because different countries take this with very different levels of criticism. There are countries that at this point see the biggest problem in the winter package.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u41	Is that all? Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we are talking here about the various manifestations of the crisis in the European Union, the issues of refugees, Brexit, the institutional crisis, but also the crisis of leadership and the crisis of leadership. These are above all specific people who are at the forefront of specific European institutions. And I would like to ask you about the highest representative of the institutions of the European Union, President of the European Council, Mr Donald Tusk. What is your assessment of the role of Mr Donald Tusk, his position, his concrete decisions, your efforts to address the most difficult European issues that we face across the Union, but also in the context of supporting Polish aspirations, Polish ideas, Polish strategies to solve European problems? I say this in particular in the context of the ongoing debate on the support of Mr Donald Tusk, as if it were a matter of Polish law. How do you feel about that? What is the position of the President of the European Council, this particular President, in this whole week of European problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u43	Thank you very much. Maybe another question, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u44	Thank you very much. I'd be more specific about that question you just asked Senator Bang. Namely, I would like to ask you to know whether the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, actually supported financial sanctions for countries that would be considered inappropriate to the issue of immigration, and how much was referred to as one immigrant in this concept that had appeared at one time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u45	And maybe the third question, Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have another question... During the Slovak Presidency, work was carried out on the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2014 and 2020. The Minister has already largely referred to this here, but the beneficiaries ask it. Can developments such as Brexit, such as the possible UK contribution outflow, adversely affect the situation of payments at the end of the current financial perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u47	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u48	Of course, the outflow of the UK contribution has a negative impact on the implementation of all the programmes that are financed by the European Union budget. The more a country is a beneficiary country of a given line, of a given EU policy segment In the case of Poland, the most spectacular is the question of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy The consequences are all the more evident. In the case of Central European countries, I mentioned this The drain of each single euro from the European Union's revenue-based budget may involve a drain of EUR 3/4 on the expenditure side, as this is more or less the distribution of the relationship with regard to the spending of this money in this part of Europe. This is a very general approximation of how this could affect On the assumption that there is no compensation for this loss, which is actually difficult to imagine. A certain level of compensation is possible, but it will certainly not be complete, because the budgetary situation of the other payer countries is not the best, and it is very difficult to justify to every parliament why, because of the departure of one of the Member States, we are suddenly to carry out strengthening our contribution to the budget. She's under enormous pressure from these parliaments anyway, which is perfectly understandable. So that's the problem. This is the reason why the UK's budgetary commitments towards the European Union are being enforced It is important for us, not for us, to the European Union. We'll keep an eye on this case. We believe that... Of course, a non-member country can afford not to finance the budget of the European Union if it has a distant economic relationship, because if it has a similar relationship with the common market, this contribution obligation will return anyway, and as long as this membership lasts, all obligations must be paid 100%. In our view, this means a much further perspective, because it takes a very long time to implement these commitments, which still exist until membership ceases. So this is being carefully examined by us. This is one of the main elements, apart from the problem of acquired rights, which is a little bit different, but also absolutely crucial... This case is very well described in our preliminary pre-negotiation analyses. So much for the contribution. As far as so-called sanctions for not accepting refugees are concerned, this project is 100% a proposal from the European Commission. It has never stood at the level of the European Council, so no one in the European Council has had the opportunity to address it directly, except, of course, political speeches, but political speeches in the European Council are the heads of government. And here it is easy to move on to the question of the role of Donald Tusk as president. Let us remember that the chairman is in charge of the meeting. That's how we've seen this function from the beginning. Especially at the time of its appointment, there was a discussion about what this function really is. It was right then to point out that this is a function which is to organise order and organise a political process within the European Council. I will say this: regardless of who will be President of the European Council, I do not have too far-reaching expectations for any President of the European Council. I expect honesty, I expect an open debate, I expect the voice of each Member State to be heard equally and taken into account because this is the essence of the EU process. We do not expect any special rights, we only expect the European Council to transfer the positions of the Member States in an appropriate way. So we don't have very far-reaching expectations, so to speak, formal expectations. Because what is different is how we perceive, how we evaluate the performance of international functions by various Poles. This is a separate matter. She is much less formal and she is subject to political evaluation. However, when we come to the summit, in principle we expect this summit to be transparent, open and equally respect the opinion of all individual Member States, in particular Poland. Donald Tusk does not have an easy task in this regard, because the expectations of the Heads of Government of the Member States are increasingly divergent today. This makes the effect can be twofold. Such a situation could lead to some excessive increase in political leadership on the side of a person such as the President of the European Council, which today is not an expected scenario, I think for anyone, especially among those countries who want to make a mark on the process. There may also be a transition to the role of someone who manages the process, manages the communication process, manages the process of creating conclusions. And I think President Tusk is closer to the other part. [[So it's more like a technical function.]] I would not call this a technical function, of course, but the President of the European Council in today's practice... I do not know what the principles of the Lisbon Treaty were, perhaps, were imagined that for these good times it would be easy to place a person with an outstanding political leadership charism, who would prevail over the political leadership of individual Member States, but this assumption seems very idealistic to me, even for good times. But today, in practice, the European Council and its permanent President are designed to organise the process so that you feel comfortable. And the Polish interest in the European Council will not be cared for as much as the Polish Prime Minister. And here there is no alternative solution, Poland must stand on its own feet in this case. It stands on its own feet and expects from this process what each mature Member State expects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u49	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two Questions in Different Fields That's what I'd call it. The first concerns commercial tax. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs complained to the Court of Justice of the European Union about the decision of the Union... I am sorry, the decision of the European Commission which questions the very construction of this tax, but there is a second element, namely that it should be stopped immediately. And here's the question: what happens to this, at what stage are we at when dealing with this complaint? Do you have any information? And second question, maybe naive. Did you also challenge the second element of this decision? What I mean is, if the European Commission orders the tax to be suspended and then loses the case, will Poland be able to claim compensation from the European Commission? Because this causes real losses to the state budget It's about income that didn't come in and could have affected it. Is that even possible? The next question is... In a way, I was inspired by the discussion, or actually the parts of the discussion between Minister Waszczykowski and Mr Timmermans, which were publicly issued. In addition to official correspondence, so to say, on the European Commission line, there are even curial speeches of some officials. And it starts to get lower and lower, so that soon porters will start talking about the political situation in Poland and the polajans connected with the Constitutional Tribunal. The question is: do you not think that this is perhaps not so random, but even the intended process of influencing Poland, also through the media and through some European officials? In part, they carry out in this way as if they were their own. In quotation marks Political programmes, even personal, and in part it is perhaps a broader process, more widely planned. How can this be countered? And can this be countered at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u52	Minister, in your introductory speech, you said that the neighbourhood policy is important for Poland. I would therefore like to ask two questions. In fact, one concerns the Polish neighbourhood policy and possible convergence or divergences Our policy towards the Eastern countries, especially our neighbours, with EU policy, i.e. the convergence of Polish foreign policy... 'Cause I get the feeling there's no clarity and no clarity. I am talking mainly about 2 instruments: the Eastern Partnership, above all the Eastern Partnership in relations with Ukraine, and the second instrument is a small border movement. It is about the prospects of launching this local border traffic with Belarus. Because messages are still being sent that everything is basically prepared and this small border traffic to a limited extent is valid on the Augustów Canal, but there is no introduction as a rule. And I am talking about the prospect of restoring a small border traffic with Russia, which, as we remember, was suspended for security reasons, and is maintained, I believe, for economic reasons. The second question, which is already very specific, concerns the EU Water Directive. The media signals show that we have problems with this EU directive, as we know, but that the European Commission is preparing to put in place some conditions for Poland that failure to comply with could reduce the amount of resources that we would have to use in the framework of this directive, which is more than EUR 3 billion per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the question refers to a fact that was widely commented on in the media yesterday. It is about a letter which came out of the Polish seat of the European Commission on 17 February concerning the alleged bad situation of judges in Poland. Is there any way you could comment more on this letter? Will there be any reaction of the Polish government to this letter? If you don't answer that question, I understand, because it concerns yesterday's media information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u55	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u56	I don't know the contents of this letter, so it's hard for me to comment on it. If the European Commission has any doubts about this issue, we will, of course, in accordance with previous practice, answer any substantive question in such a case, including as regards the NRA or the position of judges. As far as the Water Directive is concerned, there are years of delays in the transposition of the Water Directive into national law. Part of these delays can be understood. We have a problem with transposing this directive in such a way that it does not bring excessive social costs. And the essence of this directive is really to introduce a higher price for water in order to generate habits of saving water. I understand this logic, but it is very easy to express it, it is much harder to apply it, in particular that specific people, specific enterprises, specific local governments will be under pressure to carry these burdens. We want to do everything we can to make it as painless as possible for the public, especially those who are socially most exposed to the effects of this type of EU regulation. Although the deadlines are actually running, this is one of the directives whose transposition is delayed, so this time should be intensively used to close this case. The Ministry of the Environment is very intensive in this matter, in agreement with the government as the consequences of these changes will also be social consequences in other areas. As far as the neighborhood is concerned, I think we have complete consistency. The expectations are clear: we want the European Union to take responsibility in a proportionate manner for what is happening around us, around the neighbourhood, in the name of its own interests. A more stable neighbourhood, a more peaceful neighbourhood is in the interests of the European Union... not only in the economic interests but also in the interests of security. Unfortunately, the world is not that pleasant, because unfortunately the whole neighbourhood, and in the South, and in the East, has fallen apart, the European Union's neighbourhood policy has not been successful, to say the least. We assumed at the beginning of this process that it would be a process, as if spontaneous, that offering support for the repetition of a certain development model appropriate for the European Union would be accepted with gratitude. It didn't happen for a number of reasons. Sometimes these countries made their own decisions that they didn't want to follow this route so intensely, sometimes third countries disturbed this process. This was the case with Ukraine But that does not change the fact that the European Union must respond to this. Poland has initiated a strong discussion on the neighbourhood policy in recent months, we are one of the co-authors of the conceptual document on the renewal of the neighbourhood policy. Of course, we understand that politics has two aspects: the South and the East. For us, what is interesting is what is happening in the East, these are completely different types of problems and there are very different expectations of the Member States. So we are doing everything we can to ensure that this new neighbourhood policy responds to everyone's needs, in line with our maximum ambition. But we know that not everything will be possible because Member States are very often, for various reasons, not ready for this today. Some of them have made such a decision on their own, and I think that reducing these aspirations in Azerbaijan is the subject of a deep consideration of this country, which should be done in this matter. It is difficult for some countries to take this decision. Nor can we fail to see that the tardiness of the European Union in this matter, when there was a better time for the neighbourhood, helped these processes to reduce ambition on the part of neighbouring countries. In short, we are losing our pro-European political attitude in these countries also because we are not able to conclude processes such as free trade or visa-free regime for months and years. If you wait years, eventually you lose partners. Moldova and Ukraine are very strong examples of this. On the matter of Vice-President Frans Timmermans of the European Commission... Well, I understand, of course, that he was given a mandate to prepare a summary of information on changes in the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland. But the way in which this mandate is carried out is entirely his responsibility. I feel like he's fulfilling this mandate more and more politically. I do not know if this helps the authority of the European Commission. Nevertheless, this is entirely the responsibility of the European Commission. I don't want to give any good advice. I have the impression that in the European Commission itself it has been for a very long time And maybe it's still there. - uncertainty as to how the case should be dealt with. At present, I have the impression that action on this matter is being carried out in an overly political or overly spectacular manner. But we'll respond symmetrically. If someone wants a political discussion on this subject or maybe on broader topics, e.g. in general on the role of the European Commission, it is from Warsaw that we will be happy to take part in this conversation and present our position. Because we have a position on this. As far as trade tax is concerned, the Commission, in such cases as the protection of competition, almost always decides not to apply if it considers that failure to stop causes a further distortion of competition. This was the case with the OPAL pipeline decision. At our request, the execution of decisions, the original decisions, was suspended at that time. In this case, it was the decisions of the European Commission. Thus, it was done in the case of a commercial tax. We have actually challenged this decision because the European Commission's way of applying in this case does not refer to any direct distortion of competition We wouldn't have any doubts about that. But... This is part of the conclusion that a different dimension of the tax, given the scale of the shops, will have a deferred effect in the form of distortions of competition. This is so doubtful that in European tax systems, not only from individuals but also from legal persons, tax progression is a natural mechanism. If we were to consistently stick to this hypothesis that any type of progression, or differentiation of entities due to some of their characteristics, differences in the degree of tax burden, is a violation of competition, then we would simply have to say goodbye to the principle of progression, which is a risky hypothesis if we consider that progress is a dominant principle of the tax system in the European Union. I think that's it. Is a small border traffic part of something wider? We actually recognized, that is, Minister Witold Waszczykowski recognized, as part of his visits and recommendations, that it was worth trying to open the door for renewal or some kind of revitalization of relations with Belarus. Not Poland's relations with Belarus, but the European Union's relations with Belarus. Is this going to be an opportunity? Depends on the Belarusian side. Today, a step has been taken and there is an expectation of the effects of this step. However, to such a renewal between a country which should be formally included in the neighbourhood policy and has never been, due to its unilateral policy, it is necessary to prefer two parties. I have the impression that now is the time for the Belarusian answer, what she wants to do about it. But I think that this type of pilotage, you can say, is quite a lot of interest in the Union, because it would be very good to bring some freshness to the relationship in the context of the revitalization of the neighbourhood policy as well. Because Belarus was the only country where for many years there was just a black spot, no interaction. So if we are entering the period of the reform of the neighbourhood policy, I see no reason not to try on this section as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u57	Thank you very much. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u58	Minister, why Greece, i.e. Doesn't the Greek government want to give up the euro?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u59	It depends on who we're listening to. [[The Greek Government.]] I feel that the parliamentary majority is not so sure that maintaining the single currency is the best possible solution. And Greece is one of those countries where the hesitation about maintaining this currency regime is relatively large. However, I am unable to reproduce the direct reasons why the government is holding back with at least the opening of such a discussion. This can probably be due to pressure from other countries, especially euro area donors, who, at all costs and effort, let us be honest, are doing everything possible to avoid decomposition. But this is not a dead topic, because also among the northern countries at political level, at the level of parliaments, this kind of concept of solving the debt crisis in Greece is still alive. She is, of course, not as simple as many people would think, because it also means recalculating claims, which is not a happy news if you consider that leaving this country from the euro area will involve hyperinflation. Most likely. This is probably an inevitable scenario, that we would be dealing, regardless of the conversion rate, with a radical one, I think a multi-monthly, if not a long-term, inflation process. But these are the problems of the euro area, that is, the problem of squared circles to solve within the euro area. There are obvious reasons for maintaining the integrity policy of the euro area, and I understand this position, i.e. Poland does not want to take any unconstructive position in this case, but at a time when we have such a large imbalance within the euro area, it is very difficult to do so, because on both sides of this dispute there is a growing political bitterness and there is no scenario that would make it easier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u60	We can move on to the answer after the first question. Then I ask you to ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to apologize immediately, because my questions go beyond the information to which the Minister is invited to present here, but we have a rare opportunity to ask a little broader questions. These questions concern not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the Ministry of Development. We still have press reports of a possible two-speed Union. We do not have a substantive discussion about the adoption of the euro. However, with regard to the Sustainable Development Plan, the so-called "Sustainability Plan." Moravian plan As long as it works out for us, and I think it will work out in 2018, in 2019 the lack of the euro in Poland may hold back this programme. Doesn't the Minister think that we should, however, have a political discussion in order to set up a road map for the adoption of the euro and yet keep Poland at this centre, including the core of Europe, which unfortunately is connected to the euro area? That's the first question. And the second question, well, such on the border of competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Development. Foreign trade offices were to be built, which are separated from diplomacy; we can discuss whether it is good or bad. Do you really believe that the liquidation of the commercial attaché, or trade diplomacy at embassies, is legitimate? Is it appropriate to remove and transfer all responsibility, separated from diplomacy, to foreign trade offices? Is it in our best interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u62	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u63	As for the shape of final trade diplomacy and trade promotion, I do not want to speak because this matter is still in the process of agreement and there is probably no clear final shape of these solutions yet. It is a fact that we need to divide the tasks between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Development, and it is a fact that different forms are more effective in different parts of the world. We are, of course, accustomed to European conditions, where forms, so to speak, light, often not even public, are quite sufficient and maybe more efficient. But there are many corners of the world where forms that have clear state support are much more appropriate. I think it will be between Minister Waszczykowski and Prime Minister Morawiecki that will be decided. As regards the euro issue in the context of the Union of two speeds, this is the material for the paper. But if I were to mark at least the critical point of this debate, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the internal contradictions in the euro area are much bigger than between the selected euro area countries, such as Germany, and let us say, Central Europe, which is mostly outside the euro area. So it is certainly not so simple that the euro area will naturally be some nucleus focusing on some development. That's what it looks like at first glance. We just talked about Greece. It'll be a good illustration. The internal contradictions in the euro area permanently do not allow any qualitative leap in terms of fiscal management and without such a leap... Well, the declarations themselves will not create double speed. Double speed would be a problem if we had the prospect of building real institutions and real money flows. These flows of money today are very large, but they are set, intentionally, within the framework of non-EU architecture, completely intergovernmental. The point is to keep control of this process, because it's too much money to afford to put them somewhere in the unknown gray hallways of Bourlémont. And that's not gonna change. Moreover, it is likely that the paying countries, like Germany, will strengthen their national control over this process. The two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in Karlsruhe in this case are clear, Germany has already reached a limit on the girthing of recovery programmes in the euro area and without every agreement of the parliament, the Bundestag, and thus without the initiation of a political process with an unknown outcome, there is no way to continue this. So before someone effectively threatens me with a double-speed union, let's go first. He's gonna show me any real clues... Because the paper will take it all. Right? You can declare all kinds of things and we read a lot of such conceptual documents. On the other hand, the political ground for such solutions, which require money and political decisions, is very, very limited, as we will see, if we look in particular at the degree of economic integration of countries outside the euro area, from Central Europe, for example, with selected economies that operate in the euro area and are central to the euro area. In any case, from the point of view of this rather academic discussion today, one thing is certain: the creation of double speed or the building of a small union will not fix any European problem, except for the fact that some politicians might prefer to spend time in smaller spaces for psychological reasons. This does not solve any other problem, any real EU problem, and it adds new, because the real division of the Union into some components is simply weakening the European Union, weakening Europe, weakening our status vis-à-vis the outside world. The Union is not a lonely island that has the comfort of planning its future in complete isolation from what is happening around it. On the contrary, because it seems that the world is becoming more and more troublesome, competitive towards the European Union. Ideas to create a union of 6, 8 or 10 countries are completely detached from the circumstances at a time like this. I raise this not to express any special Polish expectations and fears in this matter, only in the name of responsibility for the whole of this organism, which is still persistent today and can still do much, but on one condition It will represent a large scale of consumers, taxpayers, businesses, the economy. Scale, this scale counts in this game, not the most sublime internal regulations. Maybe it would be that these, let's say, 6 countries would achieve a degree of sublimation of these laws even higher than what we are dealing with today, but that would have no political significance. The Union is important to the world not because it has very sophisticated mechanisms, e.g. sources of law I have the impression that no one outside the Union understands them and that there are deficits in the Union itself. Only because it represents 500 million people, still very rich. This is an economy that is still quite innovative, quite rich. And that's a fact, that's the reality that's being perceived in Tokyo, Washington or Mombasa. It's people who understand. Right? 500 million people, customs territory, integrated trade policy, etc. That's concrete. After all, no one is paying attention to how our social model is supported by the light-based law-making activities of the European Commission. Right? This is important to us, and for the outside world it is more a problem than a reason for some excessive admiration. It must also be said that a certain flexibility of the European project already exists today. We have Schengen, we have the euro, which does not function in the whole EU order; we have mechanisms for enhanced cooperation in individual segmented policies The European Public Prosecutor's Office is expected to be another Or the resolution of property disputes in cross-border family law; we have a choice of legal regime in divorce proceedings. From this kind of flexibility no one gets hurt. Right? Poland is not included in those mechanisms that I just mentioned, but I think we are not losing anything. In this narrow, secondary political field, we can have a separate path and nothing will collapse. However, it is certainly the case that we will never agree to solutions that would be flexible, I call it as softly as possible, leading to divisions in the common market, divisions in the Schengen area or, as a result, divisions in the Union. Forget it. However, if someone is looking for flexibility, for example. He thinks it would be better to coordinate social benefits even more strongly or to unite the fiscal base... Well, if it's anybody's need for life, I'm not gonna go against it specifically, but on one condition. This must be the mechanisms open to all, transparent and not causing any disturbance in the common market, within the four freedoms, within the Schengen area and as a result within the Union. This is the framework for this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u64	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] Is there anything else you'd like to ask me, Senator? [[No, thank you very much.]] Senator Adam Gawada. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me get back to the winter package. As the Minister stressed, he is the main axis of the discrepancy between the Polish position and the position of the European Union. The European Commission's proposals with new regulations aim at speeding up the energy transition of the European Union's countries, and the winter package is a harbinger of not so much the legislative revolution as the next phase of moving away from coal under a clean energy jacket for all Europeans. What should we do, Minister, in this situation? Solutions seem to be similar in other countries. An example is the instruments used previously by our Western neighbours, Germans, in the form of so-called. Energiewende. Shouldn't we develop the political and social consensus of the Polish energy concept, define it and define the way to reach EU solutions? Shouldn't we say that we accept the main directions of European climate policy and accept the assumption of clean energy, but that in the Polish energy segment, in our reality, we can achieve this in the perspective, suppose, 20 and 30 years? In my opinion, we must take into account in this scenario the role of hard coal and brown coal in Polish realities. Nor can we forget the important issue of domestic gas deposits, as well as our entire infrastructure. I'm talking about the gasport. So, Minister, I have two questions. What instruments does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Energy already use in this area, and what instruments does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to apply in order to protect this sector in the name of the wider Polish interest? Is the Ministry of Energy considering setting up a team of experts or a negotiating team that will strengthen the Polish position on these very negative and dangerous proposals for changes in the energy and climate area? Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you one more question, and then I'm not gonna ask any more. [[Of course.]] Yes? [[Please, you have the floor until the questions are exhausted.]] Minister, there is another very important matter. In the increasingly difficult situation there are Polish transporters. The collusion of the seven largest countries of the European Union effectively limits the possibility of normal functioning of Polish carriers and in the future prevents them from further developing. What are the actions taken and what are they going to take by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Polish Government in order to protect our entrepreneurs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u66	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u67	In both cases, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall act in agreement with the linear ministries. In the case of transport it is not only the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also the Ministry of Family In view of the fact that social issues are very often involved there. In the case of the winter package, of course, it is the Ministry of Energy. In both of these cases we have very close contact and we consult very often. Both are not on the sectoral agenda, but on the overall political agenda, and so, in short, on the agenda of the Prime Minister. We always raise this issue at bilateral level, at least as far as the EU partners are concerned. Poland is also, in the case of both cases, a key country organizing a resistance camp against these initiatives. Without Polish activity and without Polish diplomacy, resistance to these initiatives would be very weak. And today it is noticeable, and in both cases of course it reaches our opponents, that without the right level of compromise on this matter there will be no Polish consent nor, I hope, the consent of other Member States. The problem in both cases It's not a new problem. The fact is that our ability to organise very many Member States, in particular in the region, in such cases is large, but the scale of the interests of these countries is slightly smaller, the objective scale. These countries are therefore naturally much more favourable to the need for a compromise. He is still unsatisfactory from the Polish point of view, but there is a clear move towards finding a compromise from the point of view of a little smaller economies. This, of course, also has consequences for the decision-making system in the European Union. In few cases today you can imagine a hard and indelible blocking minority. These are rather political actions that aim to build a broader consensus base. And in both of these cases, the blocking minority is in question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u68	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u69	Minister, first of all, thank you for your reply, but I thank you even more for the declaration that this is at the level of this very high government agenda... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes, yes, for months.]] This is very important. And I would also like to emphasise very strongly that building such an image around the adverse intentions of the winter package will also be very important for building such a space. That is why, Minister, I also pay attention to this. And once again, thank you very much for the very strong declaration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about this issue, which is currently widely discussed in the media in Poland. Namely, the question of whether the President of the European Council Donald Tusk somehow addressed the Polish government on formalising his candidacy for the next term. Were there any such conversations, and what is the situation? What can you tell the Minister about this? But first of all, did he make a request? I don't know what procedure it is, strictly speaking, but there is a custom. Was such a request simply made? Was there such a speech on the part of the President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u72	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u73	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u74	Do you have any more questions for the senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u75	Got it. Then I have a question: is it true that Sweden and Italy have so far not supported this candidacy in any such preliminary political declarations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u76	This process, at least in spite of its perception in Poland, is still at a very undeveloped stage, so the Member States do not express their opinion on this issue. They're more likely to use a certain suspension. But it would be something, I think, unusual... And this kind of good advice was never given to the Polish government. It would be unusual to express a definitive position not only on this most simple dilemma, yes or no, because it is far more complicated than just yes or no. So it would be unusual if anyone, including Poland, declared at the very beginning of this process any definitive sentence. We want to be at this table just to the end and talk not only about personalities, but also about the future, about what is to happen in this Council. For us, it is more important what the content of these 2,5 years, where the European Council is going to go and how it is going to work, than just a personal issue that focuses the attention of politicians. So I can say that we are not dealing with any definitive views of the Member States today. Poland here is not an exception And that the matter goes far beyond the answer to the simple question: yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u77	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u78	And one last question from this series. Tell me what it looks like when it comes to the calendar. At what point will hard declarations be needed and it will be more or less known how this is shaped? I am also saying this in the context of the announcement by President Juncker of the European Commission, because a possible change in the chair of the President of the European Commission is to be expected, so this issue can be put in a package manner, or it can be the subject of some broader consultation. But I'm asking when they have to make final decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u80	In particular, the Heads of Government mistreat the situation of some kind of forward-looking coercion. We can make a decision within a comfortable deadline for the forthcoming European Council, but I would not take it as a compulsion, because if we cannot make such a decision, we will not take it. Probably during this period there will be at least a first approach to whether we can make a decision like this or not. Perhaps so. As regards packaging, at least Member States The political situation is different, for example. in Parliament It defends itself completely against any package balance between political groups, especially since political groups are some kind of idealization. They have their embodiment in Parliament, at Member State level political groups are a supporting element, that is not a key element. Member States whether or not prime ministers belong to one or the other national The liberal, chadetic or conservative behavior is completely self-conscious. I do not see in politically important matters some very far-reaching consequences of decisions taken at the level of internationals. In Parliament, yes, in the sense that if something depends on Parliament, it may have consequences, but the heads of government tend to refrain from considering such recommendations as a central point of reference. The central point of reference for each mature country is its own parliament and belief in one or another definition of its own interest, not those political idealizations that live, for example. Parliament. Thus, the Member States will certainly not be mostly favorable to carry out any weighing. A more dominant view is that each institution should establish its own political balance, whatever will have personal consequences, so I do not think that this plays a role. The European Commission assures us that President Juncker does not think of his resignation, that it is not included in any scenario. But the fact that this kind of rumor is revealed must certainly mean something, and you can imagine what kind of scenarios can be written by some people. I wouldn't like to comment on this in public because it's awkward for me to comment on this kind of thing in public.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have the impression that some here have mastered the phenomenon of fear of success, and I would like to be happy about the success of the compatriot, in this case Mr Tusk. But the question is whether the government is on the line Mr President is having some conversations, dialogues, and perhaps even negotiations, something for something, because I know that other countries or other environments have such conversations. If it's impossible to publish, I'd fire the Minister from answering. Come on. Do you not think, Minister, that such disgust, Tusco disgust, which is shown by certain environments, leads, among other things, to the fact that, in the absence of Mr Tusk, Chadek, however it may be, Mr Kaczyński's role as president is to ensure that the socialists in this package take power in Europe? Is Socialism close to Mr Kaczyński and the Minister? Next thing you know, it's Brexit's financials. I didn't understand your answer to the question of whether we should contribute. Your calculation was, uh, what's the occasion when Britain is performing? And I would say, but it's worth it to contribute to this contribution so that four times more will be taken, as is the case today. Of course, I'm talking about it as an extreme, but I wouldn't reject that option. And finally, Brexit, the government's tactics, depending on the behaviour of a sovereign and national British state. Are we just negotiating with Europe, within Europe, as a team, or are we going on a bilateral basis? What's more worth it? What's the government's tactic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u83	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u84	Poland, despite its deep involvement in the integration processes of the European Union, has never denied itself the right to maintain completely independent and subjective relations with all countries, including the United Kingdom. So I don't think you should be particularly afraid of that perspective, because actually the United Kingdom in a lot of things. No matter what happens to Brexit, he's just a very important partner for us. And this rule will not be suspended just because we have to solve our stronger relationship on the EU table. The matters I have mentioned here, matters concerning acquired rights, budgetary commitments, the shape of trade relations are clearly EU issues and this is the right table to solve these problems. The bilateral table doesn't help much here. In particular, at this stage, I do not see the possibility that anything could be helpful. Speaking of the fact that the scenario of adding or compensating this, this gap after the UK contribution is unwelcome, I referred to the position of the Member States... of the payer countries. Of course, from a Polish point of view it would be appropriate, because we are able to spend money on raising our own contribution. In particular, with such an absorption balance, I would not call it taking money, because this is how we achieve EU goals in Poland. So that's not money for us, it's money for EU purposes. They are most often, as I understand, from the point of view of Polish local governments, of the Polish state, other beneficiaries coincide with Polish, but there is such a distinction. And I think we should keep that in mind, because sometimes this money is shown to us as some kind of gift, pocket money, and that's far from the truth. It's a little more complicated than that. We shouldn't be looking at that money like that. Of course, if the version of events would be such that we compensate for this gap by increasing the contribution, then Poland would be most in favour of doing so, because this is a better scenario. However, at the time, I referred to the positions of the payer countries, which show moderate enthusiasm for this, because it is about more money and money, which do not return so easily to the national economy of these countries. I think the Christian democratic credibility of Donald Tusk, which you have pointed out, is absolutely visible. I don't know if she's seen so publicly among all Poles. Of course, professionals know that Donald Tusk is a Christian democrat. And of course this is a huge advantage, especially such a comparative one, e.g. In comparison with those with social democratic beliefs, we see differences in political colour. However, I would prefer that we count our successes in the European Union, which have a much more concrete expression. I would like us to look through key economic, political interests when we think about our membership in the European Union. I mentioned a dozen cases here where we have difficult problems to solve. Building such a belief that in fact all these matters depend on such or other choice of the President of the European Council... This is far from the truth. I think that's how we should look at it. [[Thank you very much...]] [[But are there any quiet conversations?]] Even if they were, I wouldn't have informed you. [[Please?]] Even if they were, I wouldn't have told you about it if I hadn't kept you serious. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is, as you called it in your speech, the crisis of the European Union's neighbourhood policy. Well, I would like to address one aspect of this policy, namely the relations of the Union, including Poland, of course, with Ukraine. We've been watching this lately. as if it is quite common and occurs in an increasing increase in the rebirth of the cult of the Bandera, generally speaking, neo-banderism in Ukraine. It is a question of naming streets, it is a question of glorification, it is also about some laws that are being taken by the parliament there. Here's the question. Is Poland in any way In this case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs warns or warns Ukraine that such a cult, of such roots, which is so negative in our history, can simply hinder Ukraine's entry into the European Union? It's on one side. On the other hand, whether we have warned or warn the European Union that such things happen in Ukraine... [[Russia's warning.]] ...because of historical history, but also because we are the closest neighbour of Ukraine? And question two, completely different nature. Namely, is it true that we were Some portals have disseminated this information. A net payer vis-à-vis the European Union in 2016?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u88	No, Poland was certainly not a net payer in relation to the budget of the European Union in 2016 or in any other year of Polish membership of the Union. It could have been about some budget line. I suppose that in the case of budgets that are aimed at R &amp; D, this could happen in connection with Horizon 2020 because Poland is very poorly using money in these areas. It's getting better, but there might still be a risk that we're payers there. However, this certainly was not the case with regard to the entire budget. As far as the Ukrainian issue is concerned, I think that as with other partners, e.g. We expect the European Commission not to mix emotions with one thing and not to shift emotions to another, so we should be careful. The European Union's neighbourhood policy is an EU matter and should be conducted according to its logic, and this logic is limited to Ukraine being the most stable, resourceful, secure country with the participation or assistance of the European Union. The European Union will not do it in its entirety, but it can be helpful, in particular in the so-called. soft areas, where he actually has something to say, goes on, for example. about visa-free movement, about trade policy, these are factors that positively affect such objectives. The issue of historical memory is our bilateral issue and should be handled bilaterally and openly. I think the Ukrainian side is completely prepared to talk openly, without any taboos, about what we think about the processes of a certain emancipation of memory that we are dealing with in Ukraine. But you have to remember. that even the very dramatic exchanges of opinions should not shift to other matters that are not related to it. And we will make sure that such a relationship is not born, because apart from seeing the processes that are taking place in Ukrainian society, we also see the sincere concern of many Ukrainian politicians, because such processes can actually only hinder directly... Or not directly, because let's face it. On the way of Ukraine to the European Union there are many more obstacles, and it is much more important than the problem of historical memory. And that is the main reason why today this process is suspended absolutely in the vacuum. But that doesn't mean that any close-up can't happen. So I think that caution in this matter and a certain strict division of tables, the division of communication channels is of the utmost importance. I'm talking about the role of government. But of course, politically speaking, we cannot impose such limitations on ourselves. It's true, isn't it? At parliamentary level, such restrictions do not apply at social level. And we're looking at the country, taking the whole picture of it. I think that the Polish side is sure, and the Ukrainians are probably fully aware that these are trends that do not help in the processes we are talking about here. And I think it was from the Polish political leadership, but also from the Ukrainian side at least a few summary declarations saying that there is awareness that these are not processes that are too helpful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the fact that there have recently appeared in public space messages about the statements made by one of the members of the European Commission on Poland. I'm talking specifically about the Munich meeting, the security conference. I have a question for the Minister: what is the attitude of the Polish Government towards this attack and, in my opinion, overcoming certain borders or the competence of the representative of the European Commission in the context of the evaluation of another country? What is the position of the Polish Government in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u92	I have consistently pointed out that the abuse of such a language in such communication, in particular in public communication, is not good for the agreement and loyal cooperation between the European institutions and the Member State. The principle of loyal cooperation is enshrined in the Treaty, so, of course, we pay attention to such matters, but given that leadership, in particular the European Commission, plays an increasingly important role. I've got a feeling. Politically, I think this kind of thing has to happen. Because in political discourse, of course, more slowly. The question is: should the Commission choose this role for itself? In our opinion, no. We have also expressed this in the official declaration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u93	Thank you. Any more questions? Do any of you have any questions for the Minister? Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion... I've got a message to read before. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that the next thirty-sixth session of the Senate will be held on 2 and 3 March this year. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Szymanski for the competent, factual and illuminating many of the issues mentioned here during the debate, speech and answers to questions. In my deep conviction, the Minister has not only identified the situation at which we are, but also explained many issues that are being used for current policies in the internal market. I am thinking here of the whole debate on the procedure of possible reform of the European Union, the possible discussion on the inclusion of important functions in the European Union, as well as the creation of some kind of education of shame, which would consist in the fact that we are universally stigmatized or our position is weakened at the moment, this kind of formulation. In this debate there was also a specific feature, which consisted in the fact that we have, like, two philosophies that are guided by... Some believe that we should always be in the mainstream, that we should always be passive, that we should listen to what is happening among the most important actors of the European scene, that if we have such a submissive attitude, perhaps some crumbs from your table will fall to us and we will feed on it. Others, on the other hand, believe that, rightly speaking from an analysis of what is happening in the European Union, that talking about some nebula europeanity, a European project... that all together is in fact a camouflage of what the European Union is today. Today, the European Union is simply a dispute about the realization of national interests, primarily the most important participants or members of the European Union. The German policy will not care too much about European solidarity in the field of energy, but will have direct interests with Gazprom because it is in the Russian interest. And such examples could be given very much. I have the impression that such meekness or some sort of elements, or marks of a vassal mentality towards the European Union, or more specifically towards Brussels, may be a little bit of a complex, that we are a fresh country in the European Union compared to the countries of the old Union, but also of underestimating our own tradition, our own heritage, our own position in Europe, which has been very noticeable over more than 1,000 years. I would also like to point out that I was very shocked by the document that recently appeared in public space. I am thinking here of the famous letter of the President of the European Council. The President wrote to the 27 Member States a letter in which he presented his assessment of the situation in the Union. In this letter he stated among others. I quote, and it's going to be a longer quote. That: The challenges facing the European Union today are more dangerous than ever since the signing of the Treaties of Rome. For today we are dealing with three threats, which earlier At least on such a scale No, they didn't. The first, external, is linked to the new geopolitical situation in the world and around Europe. More and more, let's call it assertive China, especially on the seas, Russia's aggressive policy towards Ukraine and its neighbours, wars, terror and anarchy in the Middle East and Africa In this regard, the role of radical Islam is important. And the worrying declarations of the new US administration make our future highly unpredictable. For the first time in our history the increasingly multipolar external world becomes openly anti-European or, at best, Eurosceptical. The change in Washington in particular puts the European Union in a difficult position; the new administration seems to question the last 70 years of American foreign policy. The second threat was further addressed by the President of the European Council, the internal one, with an increase in the anti-EU, nationalistic, increasingly xenophobic moods in the Union itself. The third threat is the state of the spirit of pro-European elites. The lack of faith in the sense of political integration, submission to populist arguments and doubt in the fundamental values of liberal democracy are becoming increasingly apparent. End of quote. I will admit that this text is amazing to me, especially in terms of what Minister Szymański said: that at the moment, the recipe of the Union would not go through the referendum path in the main countries of the European Union. And as far as that's concerned, it's clear. Another point: one of the most important officials responsible for the state of the Union and the EU institutions does not see that it is the representatives of the European offices, which are themselves responsible for the condition of the European Union, which is now able to... this can be defined differently, but certainly in a state of crisis. To this day, none of the European Union's most important problems has been solved: the crisis of values on which Europe has been created for centuries, the total ideological unification of the public space in the European Union, the demographic crisis, the economic crisis, the eurozone crisis, the crisis of overregulation of the entire social, economic and cultural life, the emigration crisis, the crisis of terrorism, the crisis of the EU institutions themselves and the crisis of democracy deficit in the European Union, as well as many other problems affecting the European Union. Unfortunately, in the letter of the President of the European Union, there was no reflection on this subject, which just amazed me. In fact, it would seem that the internal condition of the Union is sensational, and we are dealing with a situation of vulnerable forces around Europe. It is worth noting, however, that, with regard to the aggressive policy of Russia mentioned by the President of the European Council, it is evident that if there were another policy of the European Union, solidarity and determination, there would be no escalation of the policy of consolidation of Russian influence in Central and Eastern Europe, which has taken place. Thus, in this case, the European Union, as an organism, bears some accomplice to the situation. Frank Gaffney, Deputy Secretary of Defense for National Security for Ronald Reagan's presidency, diagnosed the situation as follows: "If we look at Europe I quote: We see that there people are also gravitational towards anti-establishment forces. The reaction of the elite to this fact shows how much these elites are separated from reality. From ordinary people. He's already shown it to Brexit. The elites were offended by people who didn't want to support them anymore. The feminist movement has also long since broken away from the realities of women's lives and closed itself in universities. Meanwhile, it was women who chose Trump, who account for more than half of his electorate. I think this is the problem that the European project is currently working on. I also think that the recipe entitled: More Union, treated as a response to all problems and problems, is a utopian concept aimed at dispersing this project from the inside. What the European Union really needs right now is a profound reflection on those crises that occur within the Union and which are the seed of future very serious problems. And in this respect the Polish government, the new Polish administration, has a huge role to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We will all agree that the European Union has been in the biggest crisis since its inception. This crisis has many aspects: internal, external, economic, social, moral. There's a lot to talk about. The main symbols of this modern crisis are certainly the so-called issue. refugees and the Brexit problem. Every crisis is, of course, a very difficult experience, a great challenge, but also a great opportunity for a new opening and opportunity to think creatively, creatively, healing. Well, unfortunately, looking at the current policy of the European institutions, I do not see that both the issue of refugees and the Brexit issue constitute an assumt for some great new opening in the European Union. As to how the refugee crisis can be resolved, these are phenomena which not only do not eliminate or even reduce this crisis, but paradoxically, this crisis is still deepening. Much is said about the fact that some social solutions encourage even greater migration, which turns the refugee problem into a phenomenon of great migration, an exodus unprecedented in contemporary world history. Reactions to Brexit are also less creative, less creative, often hysterical and very infantile. I would like to remind you of one of the first emotional reactions of one of the European Union officials who at first had to say about the outcome of the referendum in the UK so much that English should be withdrawn from the list of official languages of the European Union. How dare they leave the European Union? This is a completely infantile and hysterical reaction. Later, there was a long talk about the so-called. punish Britain for daring to leave the European Union. Well, she was wanted, as it's said, to take hard and show what the consequences of this disgraceful British society will be. So far, the depth and complexity of Brexit's causes have not been considered. I am also looking at this as a member of the Senate Committee on European Affairs, in which, after all, we are constantly reviewing and analysing many different European documents. It seems to me that the number of these documents, their complexity, their way of editing and internal complexity are still at the same level. The European Union continues to drive like a great legislative machine, which has the ambition to regulate everything in an extremely chaotic, complicated and sometimes illegible manner, as the Minister said, even for people who are perfectly familiar with European issues. I have already often said in committee meetings that I have an ambivalent attitude towards some European documents, which, for example, repairing some poorly functioning European directive, they present a new directive twice as long, twice as complicated and completely unclear. This must be the wrong way to fix the European Union. Paradoxically, there is a tightening of ranks among the old Union, i.e. this main argument criticizing the current European structure, falling especially from the mouths of countries such as Poland, does not go to the addressees at all. They form a series, speak of Europe at 2 speeds, push for solutions to strengthen the former EU area, the euro area while leaving the rest of the European countries a little on the margins. This is certainly not an expression of one thought worked out together. It is becoming increasingly difficult for us to develop some common imponderabilia of this great European project, which is so often referred to. Fewer and fewer actors in the European Union understand what the European project really is at its core. I agree with my previous speaker, Senator Jackowski, that the issue of moral, philosophical and worldview foundations is completely ignored and ignored in this reform process. There's no reflection on that. In this respect, in my opinion, The European Union resembles the Titanic: the ship is sinking and the orchestra is playing. There's no autoreflexion here. When the priorities of the Maltese Presidency were presented to us at the committee meeting, we heard only this canon on the issue of social priorities: the fight against the social exclusion of the LGBT groups. The only progress was that LGBT was added to the name... [[Q.]] ...Q. To our questions, what about the family crisis, what about the situation of the elderly, the disabled, we have received a mild but quite evasive answer, that this is, of course, also one of the priorities, but here we must particularly emphasise these phenomena. I don't think there's any reflection here, there's no change of direction. In addition, this is also paradoxical. On the other hand, under the circumstances, because in a very informal and completely unnoticeable way for ordinary citizens, there is an increase in the powers of the European institutions which do not have legitimacy from democratic elections. We continue to do this in various European documents. The European Commission is very skillful and very consistent, but, as I say, in an informal way, it increases its competences in various ways. Recently, at the committee meeting, we had a European document which pointed out that the European Commission was, as a matter of fact, entering into the Treaty powers of the Court of Justice. Thus, this institutional confusion, which is competent within the European institutions, is getting worse. Finally, the question of leadership. As I said in my previous question to the Minister, it is also important who is personally at the head of certain European institutions. And here I come to the chairman, Mr. Donald Tusk. The Minister's statement shows that no one will care as well for Polish interests in the European Union as the Polish Prime Minister. I agree with that, of course. But then the question arises: is the institution of the President of the European Council needed? Once again, the European Union is creating institutions for which it is difficult to identify their specific competences and impact on the course of European affairs, and in addition in the European Union's relations. The Member States are causing a very toxic atmosphere. Because doesn't it cause a toxic atmosphere that we're currently in some kind of suspension? On the one hand, Mr Donald Tusk, you know, is doing everything within his capacity in Brussels to lead to his re-election, but on the other hand the Minister tells us that Mr Donald Tusk has not formally asked for his support by the Polish Government, by the Polish State in these institutions. The fundamental question is: who does he represent, and what is his mandate? We are often accused that we are somehow limiting the question of his presence in the European institutions to representing Polish interests and fighting for them, that it is kind of narrow, and there he represents the European interest. But the question of what European interest Donald Tusk represents and what exactly he did to solve the biggest European problems is also very difficult to answer. This is all, to put it mildly, so elusive and so fuzzy, that the basic question seems to be whether the shape of the European institutions we are dealing with is appropriate. I think this re-election is really the most interested Mr. Donald Tusk himself. Indeed, it is possible to envy the material and social status of the highest positions in the European Union; the European Union can guarantee this very well. However, I have fundamental doubts about this. There's no simple diagnosis here. I'm very far from it. Is the whole structure really ready to respond to the dynamics of change, to these extremely difficult problems. The next six months of the presidency, this time Maltese, ahead of us. Let's see if anything moves. Unfortunately, I am skeptical and the expression of this skepticism ends my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u97	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of such reports... Of course, we are all going beyond the subject of the report from the Slovak Presidency, because there are so many problems that need to be discussed. The discussion that's going on here is very interesting. Even if I fundamentally disagree with what my previous speaker said And I'm gonna argue with that part of it. However, I must say that what he said reflects some attitude towards the Union, to the crisis in the Union, to some politicians. It probably also reflects the attitude of parts of society, because we, politicians, by means of what we say here or at meetings, when talking to the media, also shape the attitude of our society towards the Union. It is clear that the European Union is in a difficult situation, but the suggestion that this is the end of the Union and that the answer to this could be to take the European Union back to economic union is not right and good. It is also not a suggestion of good for Poland. Because in this situation, we should rather take care of the Union, ensure the sustainability of its institutions, because it is clear to me: without the Union, Poland outside the European Union or Poland in the Union, which will no longer be a Union, but will be a sphere of economic cooperation, it will be in a much more difficult situation. It is precisely because since our entry into the Union, our external situation has changed significantly. I would like to say that I listened with interest to this discussion, she was interesting, even if I disagreed with many voices. But I understand that we are all here about the good of the Union, about making the Union work as best as possible. And even if there are extreme voices that... once there were extreme voices that Brussels was like Moscow... Well, that's what the passwords were. During the election campaign and then in the camp governing the slogan first Moscow, and now Brussels... I no longer heard such slogans here. But the Union has problems. And what is happening in Poland, what the government of PiS in Poland is doing with the Constitutional Tribunal, is that it is breaking the constitution in the case of many laws and many decisions, that is an additional problem for the Union. We, through this internal policy, are creating an additional problem for the Union and thereby weakening the Union, but we are also weakening our position. It's not like our position was what it was, it was what it was. You can see that with an unarmed eye. And none, Minister, of the dreams of the power of this situation will change the dreams of the power, according to which Yeah, it's for you. The others must join us and in this way we will make a community, a dream that Germany will join, France will join. Well, they're joining each other. The common defence policy we talked about earlier, before the elections, the previous government talked about it, tried it, etc., of course at the moment, in these realities has become completely different. And it is clear that, as part of the common defence policy, the French are talking about a common defence policy primarily in terms of the defence industry. Yeah, 'cause that's their business. But we have other business. We have such an interest that there were common defence plans to create jointly managed forces to create something like a staff that will lead these forces within the Union. And I'm sure the French aren't happy about it, but there's a situation that we should go in this direction. But what's going on? After all, we have initiated this common defence policy and we have remained outside the Union's core on this issue, also on this issue, because at the moment Germany, France, Italy and Spain are creating this common policy within the Union. We're not invited. And in a moment, well, soon, because March 6th, Hollande, president of France is holding a meeting. Who's he inviting? Well, who's he inviting? Germany, Italy, Spain, which is the four of them. What about us? Where are we? And let's look at what happened in Munich. Who was President Duda seeing? What are the Union's most important policies? Well, with the president of Croatia, with the president of Ukraine. Are these the most important ones? Of course Ukraine is very important to us, these meetings with the President of Ukraine have been many times and it is good that they are. But they're not... Ukraine is outside the Union and Croatia is not a dominant and most important country, even in the south of the Union. For us in the south, Romania is the most important one, which has similar economic, military potential, but that is another matter. However, it is good that there is reflection in PiS too. Meeting with Chancellor Merkel, this visit Of course, it's a close-up, showing that there's a close-up with the Germans. This is an expression of some reflection on the difficult situation in which we are outside these decisive bodies. And why is that? This is because of what is happening in Poland, because the ruling party, i.e. the PiS, is breaking the constitution and we have entered the system of checking the rule of law by the European Commission, but also because in a situation where solidarity is needed, there is no solidarity on our part. Minister, refugees. What's the problem? This is a political problem that was generated by the PiS, especially during the election campaign. In the 1990s, by Polish centres for emigrants, for refugees more than 86 thousand Chechens. I'm not going to say anything new, saying that they're Muslims, and some of them were involved in military action, fighting Russia. Do we have a problem with them? What's the problem with them? I didn't hear there was a problem. If a problem is created, it's because of those shaved necks from the ONR, which the prosecution often doesn't respond to. The fact that we turn to a large part of the Union backwards in a situation where they need support must cause some reaction to us as well. It's not like we can only benefit. We must also be responsible for the Union as a whole. Here a special case is the case of orphans, which several Polish cities want to accept. And what does the government say, what does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs say? Well, it's crazy, and basically, the answer to these conclusions is, write on the Berdychs. It's just a thing that's embarrassing us. Why is it not possible to accept those dozens of orphans from Syria? It's where people need help. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. I've heard such words here that you need to speak back from Senator PiS. Unfortunately, it is also in this style that politics is conducted, when it reprimands, on accusations or doubts, that there is a waiting-out. I've also heard of the teacher's shame that you shouldn't lead the teacher's shame. I am aware of this, it should not be done, but it should also not be conducted in the teaching of shamelessness. And what do you call the attitude towards the proposal to accept orphans from Syria by the few cities that fund it preparing it? [[Applause]] And in the end, if someone-- Tusco disgusting is a great phrase for my colleague, that's a great phrase. Because I do not understand how the Polish government might not know whether to support or not to support the Pole for such an exposed position. It's obvious it's either him or someone from another country. If the government had the opportunity to switch people, they might be wondering. Yesterday, the president of the Czech Senate of Št. I inform the Minister that he supported Tusk, will remain Tusk in this position. And it's certainly not just his opinion, but the government's opinion, he's been given instructions from the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because that's how it's done during the visit. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. If someone says that the President of the Council is to represent the point of view and position of the State from which he comes, either the President of the European Commission or any European Commissioner... If he were to state that he represents his country's position, he should cease to act as such, because he cannot represent his country's position in a situation where he has become an EU official. Any other contacts, etc., but I didn't see the desire to contact the PIS government with Donald Tusk, and I heard the threat of bringing him to justice, some kind of BOLO... [[Financial Times...]] Yeah, the Financial Times said that. And did the Polish government defy this? Did the party's president, your party, defy this? No. [[The Polish Government has more serious tasks than discussing...]] Thank you very much. That's enough for me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u99	Thank you. Senator Klich, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I also like to use the phrase "West," it is very large, it facilitates conversation. But the naked eye can be seen as the West is shattering, not only because of Donald Trump, who, as the first president in the history of the United States, for at least decades, believes that the United States' defence alliance, in which the United States is a leader, is outdated, and not only because of those politicians in Western Europe who ignore that yours, our West, is a community of values and that in this community of values The concept of rule of law is enshrined in both NATO's 1949 founding treaty and the European Union's Treaties. It is the concept of the rule of law which, with such disregard, treats the Government of Law and Justice in Poland and which tries to bring to the ground floor, first paralyzing and then subjugating the only constitutional control institution in respect of the respect of the constitution of our country. On different fronts is the crack of the West you can see with your naked eye. The European Union has been in a deep crisis since 1998 and has shown itself in various areas. This is not the first Union crisis in the field of defence and security policy, because this crisis has already survived in 2003 due to differences of opinion, whether to go or not to follow the Americans to Iraq. Only the phenomenon of that time was that the crisis was overcome very quickly. And we both, as people dealing with European affairs, know why that crisis was so relatively easy to overcome, but this crisis cannot be overcome by a common security and defence policy. We know that one of the causes of this stagnation in the CSDP is the lack of the will of European political leaders to draw this policy out of this crisis that there is no atmosphere for... or otherwise: that for a long time there has been no It's better to say that. The atmosphere to heal what is most important for Europeans - a tool that protects their safety. But thanks to the British referendum, it turned out that such permission was noted: permission And even the expectation of the citizens of many European countries to heal the common security policy in Europe has emerged. It is not possible to say more Europe everywhere today, as we said, Minister, when we started to be MEPs, in 2004. But there's an acceptance and expectation right now. I would like to point out: the expectation from Europe and Europeans that in the most sensitive areas of this Europe it will be more efficient and more effective. There are 2 such spheres, which can be mentioned without reservation here, this is the sphere of external security and the sphere of internal security. Therefore, in June last year, France and Germany's foreign ministers published the first non-paper, which talked about how they imagined more of our Europe in the field of external security. This is why the defence ministers of these two countries followed them and published further proposals in October. This is why Federica Mogherini was finally able to present the European global strategy, which was so long awaited in November. This is why foreign ministers have so easily adopted the implementation plan. And now it's up to us to meet this challenge. Because Poles also want to be safer, because Poles also need additional protective umbrellas for their external safety. It is in the interest of Poles and Poland that these tools which we have since 2009 and which are enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon should finally be implemented. In my question to the Minister, I said that, fortunately, Polish diplomacy did not turn its back on these initiatives. But I can't understand why he's not in the vanguard. A few years ago, together with the French and German ministers, we wrote the first and second Weimarski letter. I know what was in them because I signed one of them myself. We have made proposals about which the French and Germans are currently writing, but the Polish signature is not there. I ask why the Polish signature is not there. Is it enough that the Foreign Minister thinks it's a good direction? I think it is not enough that Poland should show initiative in this forum, because strengthening this umbrella is in the interest of Poland and Poles. And that is why I encourage the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do everything to make this initiative visible on the Polish side. Similarly... The scale of terrorist acts in Western Europe shows that internal security in the countries of the European Union is not good either. Can we continue with the intergovernmental model against threats and terrorist acts? Not in my opinion. I know, of course, that each Member State is guarding its tools of sovereignty, including. limit the exchange of intelligence. The European Union is responsible for identifying threats, and there is a joint response through the structures of the European Union to these threats, etc. We know this very well, but there is a time and there is the consent of Europeans to strengthen the EU's tools in this area as well. It can't just be a counter-terrorism strategy, it can't just be a counter-terrorist proxy, it can't just be a center that... all three elements have existed for many, many years. At this level, there must be at least much better coordination between Member States' efforts, and it would be best for the European Union to be more involved as an institution in the process of preventing and combating terrorist threats and possibly combating them. That's what I'm talking about because... once again, I'm going to refer to what I mentioned at the beginning. There is no climate at the moment to deepen European cooperation in every area, but there is a expectation of Europeans, including Poles, that at least in the field of external and internal security, the European Union will be more efficient and stronger. Let's use it. One last remark. One of the mechanisms enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty in 2009 is PESCO, i.e. permanent structural cooperation. This mechanism has never been used. There is a debate in the European Union on whether new Schengen defences must be created in order to strengthen security and defence policies or whether this mechanism is sufficient. The Polish voice in this matter should be clear and there should be no doubt: no new treaties should be created, no new agreements, because they will exclude those who are outside these agreements; instead, we should use the tools that the Treaty of Lisbon gives us. This mechanism of structural cooperation is precisely an inclusive mechanism which can be applied in this case. I therefore call, Minister, for Poland to take the initiative to strengthen the common security and defence policy so that it is creative in terms of internal security solutions and to defend Europe very much from some new treaty solutions when appropriate tools are enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the Minister for his patience, for trying to demitologize certain concepts that operate in public, media, as well as political, euro area type, fear of a two-speed Europe or some ease of resolution of the refugee crisis through the so-called. European solidarity, from which we are said to break out. I judge the Slovak Presidency very well. Of course, my perspective is different when it comes to attending COSAC meetings, both in search of compromise and... However, Slovakia has shown, say, our sensitivity to looking at European issues. If I were to talk about disappointment, that would be... I have the impression that European authoreflection after Brexit is not as far-reaching as I would expect. It seems to me that it is quite strong at the level of governments, not worst at the level of national Parliaments, but already the European Parliament, and certainly the European Commission is still trying to think in terms of what to change so that it stays the way it was. I also received some of the words of the Minister who spoke about reducing his ambition towards neighbouring policy, because it shows what this crisis in Europe is causing. That is what we are losing, as the European Union, a mission. And maybe a few things specific. First, migration. I have the impression that today we were also talking about something that we are dealing with a breach of relocation regulations actually by all countries. That we are dealing only with a certain declaration of going, we are moving forward, but all countries are pulling the brake very hard. That maybe in the verbal sphere Poland did not sign up for a new speech or I dare say There's a kind of hypocrisy that we're all gonna share. 'Cause I don't think the point is in the 7,000. You have rightly pointed out that many thousands of Chechens have passed through Poland. And of course there have been some episodes, but for a 35 million-dollar country there were no It's such a big problem. The problem lies in something completely different • in our responsibility for increasing or reducing the pressure of immigration. And that's a job for politicians. Mr Augustine pleaded to refer to Pope Francis. I'd say that's not how I feel about it. Francis appeals to our hearts and to some openness. I speak to Mr Augustine like this: I am checking what you and I do for people who live in the third world, how we try to help them individually, but as a politician I am looking for a solution that makes sense. I mean, the pressure... If we open up completely, it's gonna be Europe. How are we gonna defend ourselves against ghettoism? How do we create jobs? How much are we able to reduce our income per person by sharing it with others? These are really quite important questions. And the final question is also about the democratic verdict. However, please note that the policy of "willkommen" causes changes in the political landscape of Europe to the west of Poland. There's a little thing, too. Well, we're supposed to accept refugees who don't want to come to us at all. It's just a little bit of a separate element. Once, when I returned from Brussels, I read an expert report on the percentage of national minorities' relations, how they feel and how the majority of the nation feels depending on a certain level of these national minorities. I'd say the sociological phenomenon is very simple. Mononational countries are countries that are afraid of aliens. At a time when it's 2 and 3% aliens, a process of acceptance begins, i.e. You see those other people at school, the kids play together, you work together, you start to accept these strangers. Later, when there are more than 10% Some problems are starting, I mean. People say: 'Now, this street of mine doesn't look like before, there are too many others, it's not exactly my cultural world.' Later, when there's 40% of them It's going to short-circuit. So I would also suggest looking from this perspective at certain phenomena that occur even in countries as peaceful as Belgium; the situation 50:50 causes a mild conflict between Wallons and the Flemish. I was a little surprised by Mr Augustine's statement to join somebody's initiatives. I wonder how this would have been treated if the senator from France or from Germany had said so. I have a feeling it wasn't that I misunderstood, because then there was some surprise. How can we reduce the competences of the European Union if we are also saying that we are strengthening it? The consistency of the wall is shattered by tearing out individual bricks. I think it's a little bit like the European Commission is trying to be a juggler. He gets more and more skill balls, but more of those balls fall. They keep saying, "Throw in the next ball." And it's even harder for them because there's an earthquake all around. This is not just about migration, Syria, the South China Sea, the challenges of the new American administration, etc. The question is, isn't it better to limit the number of balls to enough to juggle them? The second element connected to the wall. Mr. Senator, full agreement. That's the biggest problem. A wall was built in Brussels, a wall between bureaucracy and Europeans. A classic example is the repetition of the referendum indefinitely, because the French people, the Dutch people and other nations were mistaken. So for Europeans, it would be better for the head of Europeans 'Cause for now, we're banging our heads against the wall of Brussels bureaucracy. Partly disassembling this wall. It is not against deepening integration, but I believe that stupid integration is anti-integration. At the moment, a mechanism for rejecting excessive integration has emerged in Europe. If we do not slow down, we may lose the entire European Union project. You have to choose the speed for the corners, and right now the corner of the European Union is quite sharp. Please bear in mind how the European Commission, the European Parliament, reacts to everything that is happening. This is de. In fact, the fiction of the yellow card, the panic fear of the red and green card. We should fight here, in this Parliament, and in other parliaments, to have a greater impact on European lawmaking. There is a bureaucratic theory that says that when you lose control of bureaucracy, there are two phenomena. First of all, bureaucracy is wonderfully trying to solve the problems it created. Second, he's playing the strongest player. Let us consider whether this is the case in the case of the Brussels European Union at the moment? There was talk of the rule of law, about liberal democracy. This is probably a topic for a separate discussion: whether some form of liberal democracy has been exhausted or simply too many countries of the European Union have left the foundations of liberal democracy. We call it liberal democracy, but this is something completely different. I have a problem. I take it that part of the value system, which is also trying to impose on us, washes the foundations of democracy, devours democracy, creates a certain civil hedonism that breaks up a Europe that causes defence reactions. And I would say that we have a different sensitivity. Or maybe something else. I think we're leaving politics. Also within the European Union An ugly girl. I'm a feminist, and I don't think an ugly girl has to take what she gets, just has the right to dream, has the right to have aspirations, has the right to wait for her prince in a fairy tale, has to formulate her expectations. There must be some disagreement with some of the senators on the Platform. Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania have their sensitivity. We're immune to a new speech from the old days. And she's sipping from the European Union. We also have some experience. Timmermans says very often that democracy is such a system And I agree with that. Who doesn't pass out minorities. But we also have other experience, connected with a minority that travels mostly. And these are the elements, this is our sensitivity, which we can sort of... She's immune to some bad things. We have previously seen some bad phenomena that are in the Union. Finally, I would say this: Slovakia shows that one can be subjective, that one needs to look for its answers in the European Union. And perhaps our sensitivity, the new European Union, is a certain value. We don't have to imitate. We're supposed to be ourselves, we're supposed to be looking because we're supposed to save a Europe that's on the sharp corner. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Mr. Oremski, it's a good thing I'm following you, so I can relate to what you said. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senators, There is no minister, it is a pity, I hope that you will pass along the paradox, that in this elite club, which is the European Union, individual countries firmly claim that they have at most difficulties, but are not in crisis. There is a European Union in the crisis. The Union has problems, and the individual countries do not. And if they're in trouble, it's the Union. It is quite characteristic that the Union in many countries is regarded by many politicians as a good substitute subject, as a cover for many of its own negligence, its own failings, its own problems. It's so easy for the Union to say bad, because it doesn't cost anything. It's so easy to throw it at her, because no one sets a price for it, and the audience applauds. In my opinion, this is also the case here in Poland. And yet the Union really does, even if it puts certain The goals and requirements negotiated with us, that's what we do in our interest. Because it is in the interests of individual members to be in the European Union. And, of course, requirements require effort, not evasive action. Sometimes it takes dramatic events to understand it. Do you want an example from Poland? There you go. The Union, this evil Union, wants us to close the mines. He doesn't want us to be able to base our energy on coal. It takes a smog to understand that this objective set by the Union is our health? That's what it looks like. And so it is in many aspects. What the Union is designing is usually what is good, what is beneficial. Maybe not right away, not all of them, but in general it serves us even if it involves some difficulties. And these negotiations within the European Union are taking so long because it is about finding a modus vivendi to pursue common goals in a very long time span, as the Minister said here, that decisions are actually forged in the long term. I guess that's the way it has to be. And those who try to accuse the Union of being so still, so little mobile that it doesn't make many decisions, most often forget that neither in the roads nor in any other document to make decisions on many issues, the Union is not entitled at all. Those powers should only be given to the Union and, of course, there is no agreement. So it is easy to accuse, and in the meantime it is worth looking at the Union to return to what Senator Klich has mentioned a little bit, to the fact that, in fact, the greatest profit of being in the Union is our security. The Union was created after World War II in a specific atmosphere, as a result of the belief that Europe, which has become a source of 2 terrible wars, can turn its diversity into an asset, trying to unite. And especially now that it is so dangerous at dawn, when nationalisms are growing at our borders, when reinforcements are increasing, when in the United States, at least verbally, the meaning of the European Union, the sustainability of NATO is being called into question, we should remember these fundamentals. Not only because we are a team, but above all because it builds our economic strength, which is the basis of all the strength and meaning at dawn. If we among the EU countries are moving forward quite quickly, also thanks to EU measures, which no one will deny, then this is the best proof that our strength is improving precisely because we are in the Union and not because we get up from our knees to the point where we can't even find a few friends. What are we doing? We're trying to build alternate alliances, some kind of intersea. We are on the side of those who are clearly Eurosceptical, and then we are surprised that they are leaving the Union and that this is not in our interest. Well, I can't recall such initiatives, Minister, which would strengthen the Union, and would be by Polish authorship. We do not contribute to many agreed goals This is what I was talking about, for example, to the extent that the climate target was negotiated. We do not have the heart to do this, we do not want to do it, we think that it is imposed, as if we, ourselves as Poland and Poles, were not uniforms, were not part of the European Union. What is EU is ours. We are talking about our affairs, our goals, our tasks, because we are members of the Union and we have agreed on something. We don't respect the value canon. Here we talked about the rule of law, the position of the judiciary. Today I read where we are in terms of freedom of the media and that we are facing a further decline in these rankings. We can't be sympathetic. Mr. Oremski left, too bad. He said, "I'm checking." And the Minister said your orphans. He was talking to me. Well, Minister, you insulted the orphans, not me. These are your orphans too. These are the orphans of this world, of us, of people. And by replying to Mr Oremski, who is not in the Chamber, I want to answer his check so that I can't wait to see the effective support from government agencies, thanks to whom my wife and I apologize for saying this, but I was provoked. We could implement our private plan, make our contribution, and just accept such a child. Polish law, it turns out, is completely inadequate in this area, there are no procedures, there are no contracts and it will probably be very difficult to accomplish something like this. But there are other ways to help. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Donald Tusk issue, because this is also a symbol. His performance of this function was a symbol, it could be said that it has been the biggest success of the Pole on the international stage for years, the biggest promotion of the Pole on the international stage. And Donald Tusk's attitude is symbolic, too. This is the attitude towards the achievements there, what we see in Poland, is a symbol of how we treat the European Union, and this is, however, a symbol, in my opinion, that we would be ready, even at the expense of many important things in the country, to realize our... that the government would be ready to achieve its political goals even at the expense of our full, intense, visible role in the European Union as one of the centres of integration. We're pulling out of this role. PiS politicians do not hide the fact that actually these different speeds in the European Union are no longer so terrible for us, because they already kind of exist, the law, which is, to some extent, allows it to do so, we know that it permits it, and it needs to be taken into account. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed in a very dangerous period, a lot of turmoil in many areas. And by sticking to that comparison with the vortex, you have to say that it is so I consulted with the physicist. That if someone tries to be closer to the center in time, so to speak, it is sucked inside and located in the center, and if someone is on the outskirts, then as a result of the center movement it can eventually be thrown out of this vortex. It seems to me that we should try to be closer to the centre of the European Union, to be in its core so as not to be thrown out of parentheses at this dangerous time. This is probably the most dangerous course we all have to follow and we should not agree to. Our alliances, which must be built in the Union to carry out our affairs, let us build with those who have something to say in this Union. Let us also build with strong ones, not to forget our neighbors, with whom we have a history together. Let us be together with them or for them lawyers of common affairs, but let us not forget that in order to settle any matters, we must remember that we must also include those whose roles we are constantly trying to contest. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, I personally, like most of my generation, dreamed of being in the Union because we thought this was a special place. Today it is our dream that many try to disgust, many try to say that this is the source of evil, and after all Poland, Poland is the biggest beneficiary Not just EU funds... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but being in the Union at all. That's why, Minister, I'd like to believe that... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 15 minutes...]] ...the master who has spent so much time there and has been well enrolled in the construction of European architecture will continue this mission just so that next time we say that thanks to Poland we have succeeded... [[Mr. Senator...]] Mr. Marshal, last sentence. ...strengthening European solidarity, thanks to Poland and our initiatives, we have managed to resolve at least one crisis. It'd be good if it did.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u105	Mr. Senator, this is the sentence. multiple folds. Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I mostly wanted to talk about what I was asking, about things related to the winter package, about energy issues. But I'm saving this for last. For now, I'm going to present some sort of polemic remarks, and I'm going to try to do that in such a telegraph shortcut. I wanted to thank the Minister for his presence, for his competence and for his answers. I don't agree with all of your answers about those issues where you kind of exposed your position or your government position. I don't agree with everything, but I'm always happy to hear it. And I think it's worth it. What do you represent? I'm gonna start with some marginal stuff, but I think it's worth addressing... The speech itself was characteristic. I am thinking of you here, Senator Pęk, who, in my opinion, has made some mistakes in his speech, but the emotions he has given have shown his attitude towards the Union, and it is actually such a negative attitude. One mistake. I wanted to mention. Namely, you said that among the priorities were LGBT and Q, which is queer. These were priorities, we really talked about them, but they were referring to the Maltese Presidency. Malta, among its priorities, placed LGBT and Q at one of the last places. It is characteristic that a country that is far Catholic and had such legislation, as a result of too harsh a regime, has actually gone completely to the other side and is proud of it. I mean, I don't mind, but it seems to me that all too far-reaching regulations make the pendulum turn around and go the other way after a while. And it's not worth doing that with us either. But just by the way, I wanted to mention this because the Slovak Presidency was good, successful and there LGBT as a priority was definitely not. And what I am talking about was the beginning of the Maltese Presidency. The migration crisis. Minister, this is a Polish matter, and you did not say that this is not a Polish matter, but that we are not directly concerned at the moment. And that's the truth. But we have a big border with the non-EU world, and actually this crisis is going to affect us more and more. And everyone will be affected because it's not just the war in Syria. Which you know very well. It is actually in the long term that Europe will be fundamental in general for demographic reasons, for reasons of drought, hunger and thousands of others. And actually solutions for Africa may need to be looked for there, but through education and contraception. This is the only way. If we say otherwise, it's actually not gonna work. Because simply the population, the lack of water and food will overcome all walls, barriers, and especially written law. Next up, it's called. the EU crisis and its resolution. If we don't, and somehow we don't. We don't have to articulate it. The fact that the crisis of the Union and the moods, so to speak, the anti-integration has also partly contributed, in some part, to the difficult part to investigate, to the adoption of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and to the consequences of this, will not be in the truth and we will not be able to counter it properly. There is nothing to be happy about, but there is also no reason to say that any referendum initiated by Brussels is now likely to face a negative response. If there were specific questions about the reasons in these referendums, we would find several reasons for which Eastern Europe, generally less adapted in the initial phase to integration and poorer, has contributed. Unfortunately, it is, and we must acknowledge it. But the reform of the Union is already taking place Not in a written, treaty way so far, but through the various circles of cooperation that are drawn up. It seems to me that the Minister has told me, if I understand correctly, that this is acceptable. Probably, but I think it's very unfavorable. And we shouldn't be happy about that if this system of different circles is created, and we're going to be further and further away from this center, in a row, as far as specific matters are concerned. E.g. it is unfavorable because after this these circles will probably also want to introduce certain standards and quality standards in different areas and it will be very embarrassing. And mostly I would like to talk about the coal and energy package, because I believe that this is one of the practical effects of the Union, which will pass and which will touch us very much. First, two facts from last year. Last year, there were several days in Europe when electricity production from renewable sources was higher than traditional ones. These were special days. Good sunlight, etc., etc. I won't mention it in Chile now. Chile. And there were a few days like this in the Union. That's one fact. Second fact. Last year, traditional mass production of electricity from gas-fired sources was much cheaper than coal. And it will be. Of course, it will be because Russia prefers it, gas producers prefer it. There is, of course, also a very strong influence of politics, but it is. Our coal and our energy will be in a very difficult situation. You have to prepare for it, not just to become a bass. You have to prepare yourself as follows. We've got about 50 small power blocks. once they were not small after 200 MW, low-performance, which are suitable for exchange and which we try to exchange. In the construction we have... In Bełchatów it is already used for brown coal. In the construction we have a number of blocks, among others. in Opole, Kozienice, in the order of 900.1000 MW, i.e. powerful, with much greater efficiency, for coal. That's what we need to put in the balance sheet and defend it because it's a big investment, and at the same time it gives us a horizon for this more efficient part of mining. One thing needs to be said clearly: that actually this production of heat is low-performance. It's gonna be an extraordinary block. You say they have great parameters. And they do, but the peak efficiency is 46%. So that in the long run, with the cheapness of these renewable sources, and in particular photovoltaics, it must lose. It's just a matter of time. Therefore, you have to be very reasonable about this, counting how much we will want to have coal for several decades, because it is worth it, and you have to do it and you can't suddenly go from one to the other, but you have to do it in some skilful way and gradually. I think that's what we do, but the outside impression is that we're beating each other up. And that's pretty bad, actually. As far as renewable sources are concerned, they currently have financial, investment and other preferences, but they are cheaper every year. Photovoltaics begins to complement with wind energy, plays an increasingly important role, there are more and better ways to process these low voltages that arise from photovoltaics, into normal mass usable energy and it plays an increasingly important role. In addition, actually Europe is developing mechanisms for storing this energy, of course in an international way. There are countries that have a lot of hydro energy and these countries I'm thinking of Scandinavia. They build cables through the Baltic Sea and expand hydropower plants. If this system works, actually our coal doesn't stand a chance for the following reason. We need to get in, and we're going into an open energy system where every customer can actually choose suppliers. At this point, coal isn't losing, although it's already losing to the gas. But in the future, whatever we say and even if we overthrow or reduce the norm And here it would have to be increased, because the 950 g per square hour... the coal still has to lose. However, since we are building very good blocks, large blocks, in some number that I mentioned so initially, it is actually the presence in this blend of coal within some limits that we can and could defend, especially by presenting a reasonable time frame. Yeah, I think so. And in the field of energy, we should follow this path. I'm gonna finish with that. In any case, I consider this matter to be so important that it ties in with trade, and we will not overthrow cross-border flows of electricity and this right, because it is reasonable, it works and it will go further and further. However, even without those CO2 contracts that are going to be more expensive, there is no way to keep up. We extract coal at best from the depth of 800 m, 1 thousand 200 m and there is simply no chance that in a very long time horizon we will continue, but a number of profitable mines will last for decades. So this kind of policy... I know it's for the Minister of Energy rather than for you this call, but it should be coordinated, because the problem will go to the next, the next and the next governments, so it will take several decades. PiS rules great, he's gonna rule for a long time, but one day he's gonna stop ruling, and that problem is gonna stay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Thank you, Minister, for the commitment of Poland to the European Union. You personally run a very wise, prudent policy towards the West crisis. In the information submitted during Slovakia's presidency in the European Union... we know how it has been repeatedly stressed that there have been many negative facts. I am thinking not only about Brexit, but also about what the West is most affected by, as well as Greece, the Balkans in chaos, which is also the mentioned, uncontrolled influx of Islamic refugees. I believe that this was a key challenge for the Member States of the European Union during the Slovak Presidency. And here is my observation: Poland has behaved against this challenge, saying the most delicately, with common sense. Because in addition to providing specific assistance, financial, humanitarian, Syria and other war countries, we have mainly called for the security of the external borders of the European Union. I think the success of Poland, of course not Poland itself, is the establishment of a European border guard. In general, Poland is right to stick to the main idea we had in our accession to the European Union, namely to ensure lasting security for our country, but also to underpin the political, social, economic order on the solidarity of countries forming a community of European nations. Poles were attracted to this community of European countries, at least that's what I think, the idea of founding fathers. It is based on cooperation, unity, on the universality of Christian principles and values of social life. Let me remind you that the foundation of the European Union was the Treaty of Rome. On 8 April 1994, when applying for admission to the European Union, Poland hoped that they would continue to shape us, build us, unite Christian principles, a Christian spirit connecting the Western civilization to which Poland has been a member for over a thousand years, but from which it was sort of separated in the years of the Polish People's Republic. Is it not the main cause of the European Union's crisis to move away from this spirit and Christian values? It's a rhetorical question. But let me remind you that European politicians, the so-called fathers of Europe, Robert Schuman, De Gasperi, Konrad Adenauer, Charles de Gaulle, wanted to appeal to the Christian heritage of Europe in the process of European integration. President de Gaulle compared this process of unifying Europe in 1965 to the construction of a cathedral, a Catholic cathedral. It's a beautiful comparison. But isn't everything being done today to forget about it, and even to put an end to such a building? The proof of this is praised here in almost every speech of the Senators of the Civic Platform of the Treaty of Lisbon. I will merely remind you that in this treaty the Christian heritage of the Old Continent has been cut off in a very incomprehensible way. It not only ignores the contribution of Christendom to Europe's cultural identity, but also unhappily adds the so-called Treaty. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which deals with marriage, does not define it as a relationship between a man and a woman, which has just opened, but also earlier, the way to recognize homosexual marriage as marriage. In turn, the card's prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation was the preparation of the ground for punishing those who preach Christian teachings, just as in Sweden the pastor was punished with prison for simply quoting Church documents. Also, the ban on the use of the death penalty in the Charter of Fundamental Rights means that it should only be prohibited against convicted criminals, but not against innocent unborn children. In a word, the ideological deviance of Europe, namely the extension of human rights to the rights of various immoral behaviours, was today as if directed directly at the fight against God, against the Catholic Church, and proof of this is, among others. seeking to remove all Christian signs and symbols from the public sphere. We in Poland have not yet seen it so fully in reality, but the performance of The Curse, which is just presented in the Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw, is a typical example of what is happening in Western Europe. Because of the cynical propaganda of homosexuality, radical feminism and absurd gender ideology, devoid of human gender identity, there is an unprecedented depravity of European consciences. In some countries of the European Union, it is forbidden to learn in schools that God is the creator of man. You can't believe it, but you can't teach it? That means we're going back to the most vulgar theories about the origin of man from a monkey. Let me ask you this: don't dignified politicians from the European Union get confused with their senses by putting the principle of equality of every sexual orientation into the Charter of Fundamental Rights? I think this revolutionary laicism is becoming more and more offensive and therefore dangerous. The so-called. progressive states, mostly Scandinavian countries, have already passed the most barbaric laws, including the laws introducing child murder, the extermination of sick and old people. Therefore, let me ask you this: should it not be said that, during its short life, the European Union On the one hand, unable to define a common foreign policy and ensure security, and on the other hand imposing solutions and directives forcing the governments of the Member States to rid themselves of family and traditional values It didn't burn out internally, it didn't lose value, it didn't end up in some kind of development? And another question, more dramatic: are we facing the inevitable disintegration of the European Union? Cardinal Robert Sarah of the Vatican put it well, to put it simply, and I quote: "Europe is not born children. God and his law were pushed into the margin. There is an invasion of other cultures. The West is dying because the laicised Europe has no binder, no guiding thought to defend it from imminent threats. The cardinal said that the female societies decomposed from the inside by gender ideology are unable to defend the world of values. If Christians do not awaken, Islam will prevail. There may soon be some confrontation, that there will be a collision of 2 visions of the world: the one who accepts the existence of principles, principles, values of unchangeable, Christian values inscribed by God in the very nature of man, with the one who assumes that there is nothing permanent and unchangeable, but everything is relative to time, place and circumstances. What will result from this collision? I would like to stress that Poland does not seek to break up the Union, that we propose reflection on the Treaties, that European integration within the European Union should actually be based on the standards resulting from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Charter of Local Government, the European Social Charter, the International Labour Organisation Convention, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and on these universal legal principles as a basis for adopted solutions, directives, EU regulations, but respecting the subjective, sovereign implementation legislation of the individual Member States of the Union. In order to stop this erosion of the European Union, we need to return to the beginning, to the idea of the founders of the European Union, and especially to the attitude of God's servant Robert Schuman, who while he was alive At that time, he came across all these Leftist aspirations and prayed for God in order to safeguard the true spirit of Europe. I will also add from myself that we must not ignore the fact that Europe is also a continent from which the voice of the gospel spread throughout the world, that in Europe there is the center of Christianity: Rome, the Vatican. And whoever doesn't get it, for whoever fights it isn't European, more wants to break down and fall into Western civilization. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Ryszka's speech and the applause that accompanied him. Only a few, because there are few of us in this room. They point to the need to face a very big problem... [[Maybe you'll also deserve a round of applause.]] ...because right in front of us in this difficult or crisis situation, as the representative of the right side, the minister, is born and even cements the faction of the supporters of Farage, who, when addressing Mr Van Rompuy, said that he reminds him of a cloth or an under-trained bank worker, has achieved a great deal, because for years she led the Great Britain out of the European Union, and quite a capricious member of this community, because the campaign to get out of the UK, this time successful, took place every few years. I don't think I'd want it to be that way. Unfortunately, Elizabeth II's subordinates will pay a salty bill for this. I oppose the faction of Farage, which has its pope in the form of a very good catechist from Torun, but a miserable policy from the Toruń sub-garde, because for me the Union is more democracy, more human rights, more dignity, and in relations between states More solidarity. These facts do not need to be proved, because they are written in each of the regulations which the High House, through the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, has the opportunity to assess or even directly implement. There is an alternative in Europe. There are several countries that are trying to build this alternative. It is based primarily on the strength of the nation, and even, I would say, by the power of the nation and on emphasising national interests. To be honest, on some discrimination against other nations that are weaker, whether for historical reasons or because of the lack of wealth that those nations have been bestowed on. These countries have a sense of strength resulting, as I said, from history or from the current economic situation and are willing to include only those pacts that are beneficial to them, only that making such pacts as the history of Europe has proved, but also the world, does not end with a positive result for all. In general, At least that's what happened in Europe. It ends in wars. One undeniable value of the European Union is the fact that there has been a period of peace in Europe for many years. Even the end of the Ulster War is also due to the Union, as a result of its external actions. British society has breathed away from tragic events, then called terrorist attacks. So I ask this catechist from Torun if he is willing to bring Poland out of the European Union in the name of Christian values. [[How is he gonna get her out?]] If that's the case, I'm asking... [[Referendum.]] Yeah, that's right. I'm asking... [[We're going to retreat.]] Does Poland have sufficient resources to rely only on these forces at the moment I believe that even the big ones, i.e. the power of a nation, a society? I'm saying that those who are so convinced... They're being seduced by demagogs, and that's why they're doing this. For global integration, there is no alternative to European integration. Especially not Poland. [[Either this one or this one...]] Poland has been cutting coupons from this integration for years. What is Poland? It's not a government, it's not a parliament, it's every single citizen: and the one from the village, and the one from the small town, and the one who travels under the Erasmus programme, and the one who travels to raise his living rate. Prime Minister... Excuse me, former Prime Minister, and current Member Kaczyński... [[But the title stopped and you can say that.]] Mr Kaczyński is in favour of the European Union being reformed, saying... It's limited to saying that's even the only statement. That this is supposed to be a Europe of sovereign states. [[And correct.]] I'm the one asking what kind of country that doesn't know and can't tell what to do in Europe, Tusk. [[Nothing.]] I'm asking what countries... Did Cameron... [[That's what we've been doing so far.]] Are you Mrs. May? Is this the country where the Scots and the Irish are, or is it Welsh? Is it a country from Torun, or is it a country from Warsaw? It's a country from the values of Toruń... I don't classify, I don't know if these are good or bad values. Was it the Prime Minister Kaczyński who recently, because in February, no, on May 5, actually put a sign of equality... He said: Poland in Europe, Poland in the Union. I am very pleased that the Minister for this directive by the Member of the European Union is implementing it in a literal way, although with little ambition. As I said, this is a Europe of values. I mentioned in the questions to which Europe to pursue: whether Europe without Tusk, or Europe with Schulz, which, according to the idea of President Kaczyński, will create as a future prime minister, a possible chancellor, a socialist Europe in which there will certainly be no God, and any acts concerning religious matters will be marginalized? I also mentioned that in this Chamber there was a belief, deepened by the statements of the highest politicians from the PC, who tell us, or rather give Europe the philosophy of failure or defeat. How do we get out of this... how do we make sure Tusk doesn't get elected and yet he doesn't return to the country? It's best if he comes back on the door or on the shield... [[I can't listen to this!]] That's the conviction. I ask, can there be a Europe if it is not, internally, consistent with the assessment of humanity, man, countryman? It can't exist. It can't exist and it won't exist. I'd like to ask you if Tusk hasn't earned Mr. Farage over the past two and a half years, because it didn't fall, and he followed... What else are the arguments, how long will the war with Tusk last as part of this Tusco disgust, in order not to get... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...of success... [[Time!]] [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Yeah, Mr. Marshal's right. It's time. It's time to say yes... [[Time's up.]] [[It's time for you to stop, Senator.]] ...things, things that history has given us in the form of happiness. No one in this courtroom will say that either of you, or even the minister I would have voted for if he had been elected... that such a story, such a fate of happiness will be repeated to us. Do not give up on the happiness of choice Tusk for the second part of his term of office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Have I made it clear to you that Europe will not exist without Donald Tusk? [[Yeah, looks like it.]] [[Please?]] Have I made it clear to you that Europe will not exist without Donald Tusk? [[Please, I'm waiting for your speech.]] [[Humanity will end.]] You're welcome, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u112	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I thank you very much for the very substance of this speech, which gives us a picture of the functioning of our country, as well as a picture of the functioning of the European Union. Very many speeches were substantive, especially here Professor Wach spoke specifically. But the speeches in general were political and cannot be addressed to some. In fact, Mr Augustine's speeches and Senator Rulewski's speeches focused on Mr Tusk, who has been strenuously pursuing Only not in our country For an extension of its mandate in the European Union. And here were such statements as this is a great success. Indeed, it was not clear whose success it was. Of course, it was undoubtedly Mr Tusk's personal success. It's hard to disagree here. However, it should be made clear that this was not the success of our country. It wasn't our country's success. If it were a success, Mr. Senator, Schulz would never dare criticize our country like that. Timmermans wouldn't allow himself to have this kind of run for my country either, and you know it. If Tusk had respect there, if he had a strong position, they would never have dared in such an arrogant, naughty way. You could use even stronger words to criticize Poland. So it's a personal success, you have to admit, that's what apanasses, money are after, of course. But for our country it doesn't change anything, on the contrary. I will remind you that this administration with Mr Tusk in charge is responsible for Brexit. Undoubtedly, Mr. Senator. You can't escape that responsibility here. In our case, she's responsible for the construction. Nord Stream I, now there are preparations for Nord Stream II. And, of course, she's responsible for the situation that's taking place with regard to the influx of migrants. After all, we all now know that a representative of a Member State of the European Union, of Germany, of Angela Merkel, did not agree on her decisions when she invited quite a troublesome and large number of refugees. I know that some of them must have come from poverty, from an area where there's a difficult situation. But the action could have been agreed. Because what we are talking about here is undoubtedly a threat, as evidenced by numerous terrorist attacks. You, Senator Rulewski, are in the NATO parliamentary group. We go to meetings very often, to assemblies, and you know that all the countries of the European Union are fighting for their position. All of them. There's no such unity there. Each representative of the country concerned shall seek to ensure that its country is in the best position possible. It's visible to the naked eye, it doesn't take any great intelligence to see it. And in my opinion, our country is currently being criticized, although those responsible for it are criticized. It is seeking its right position in the European Union. We are a large European country, we are a country with a beautiful history, and we have the right to pursue our position, which, I hope, during the term of this Parliament, when governed by law and justice, will be appropriate to the size of our country and to the situation in our country. Mr Senator, all right, everyone... I am also in favour of participating in the work of the European Union, of course you are trying a little bit to scare that this government or, as you call it, I no longer remember, the catechist from Torun Of course, that was rude, but what do you expect? They will bring Poland out of the European Union. That's not true. We must, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, have our rightful position in the European Union. The European Union certainly needs reform. Let us remember that the current authorities of the European Union will also soon be verified by voters and the situation may change for us, and certainly for our benefit. 'Cause from the different opinions we hear, it might work out in our favor. And this will be noticed by the European Union's environments. The Polish policy in this area is very good, I highly appreciate this situation with the Visegrad agreement, it is of course very beneficial for us a group of several countries, in this case 4 countries, cooperates so far very well and I think that this voice will be more audible. Of course cooperation with Germany is essential, it is our neighbour, a very strong neighbour who has influence in the European Union, but it must be cooperation on a partnership basis. I'll remind you, Mr. Senator. What are you talking about? In fact, it knows very well, so it can only be recalled that Germany has gained the most from the enlargement of the European Union economically. They know that, too, Mr. Senator. The fight for these financial, economic and economic issues in the European Union is visible. Germany, as one of the countries, cares for good, good neighbourly relations with our country, and very well, because we also need the support of Germany, the support of France. But if we do not seek it, if we do not try to find our own place in the European Union in such a way that, as I have already said before, it is appropriate to position and to greatness, and to the history of the state, then no one really matters with us. I am very critical of whether my formation is very critical of these governments, these 8 years when it comes to defence, as regards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. It didn't work out for us, Mr. Senator, from my point of view, and I'm not saying it propagandaly or maliciously. These eight years, in my opinion, were wasted and Mr Timmermans' public speeches were just now at the Munich conference. It was even inappropriate. Mr Schulz's statement shows that these eight years have been wasted. I hope that the government of Law and Justice, the government of Beata Szydło will be able to rebuild it for three years and that others Or I hope it's the PiS who's going to build the government again. They will follow this path, and I am convinced that the next governments will benefit from it too. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Minister, Your speech today concerning information for us about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union has led to a broader discussion on this subject and questions for you, covering issues of the whole European Union, the whole European project. Rather, everyone in this Chamber and most people in Europe agree that the European project is currently in stagnation, crisis, which nouns or adjectives we will use, is already a matter of our individual ideas, individual emotional expression. However, we can see that it really is not what we imagined. I'd like to do a brief analysis when it happened. In my opinion, statistics will help us do that. If we look at the world's statistical yearbooks, it will turn out that already in the 1980s European Communities and Europe as a whole started losing economic distance to the United States, and we really should compare with them because of far-reaching parallels, whether social or economic. The median shows that about 1.1 percentage points are lost every year. At the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, the European Communities were transformed and the European Union emerged. And the statistics show that it should be better from now on, while the problems in the European Union have started to grow. I'll even mention three areas so as not to be literal. For example, not as big a development, not as big a dynamic as we'd expect, has been happening since then. Of course, there were more projects, more solutions to make Europe stronger, better. However, they have given rise to more and more discussion, and European society has shown an increasing reserve for them. Now we see what he mentioned, among others. Mr. Senator Klich, if there are any new ideas, the desire to deepen this cooperation is beginning to fade. What does that show? In my opinion, in the 1950's, as one of my previous speakers, Senator Ryszka, the fathers of Europe actually had an idea of how to organize our continent. But in my opinion, they didn't say that, among other things. Four freedoms is their greatest achievement. In my opinion, their size is that a large part of the continent, starting with six countries, were able to convince it, which I think is their greatest achievement. Besides, when building the Treaties of Rome, they did not think about the construction of a new existence, but showed the instrument, or way in which Europe should strive for a safer, more prosperous, peaceful and anticipated life. What happened in the next few years? In my opinion, the European institutions have been growing more and more. Well, there were more and more elements to be dealt with. But at some point it turned out that the European Union itself is the clou of this project, not how to make people live better in Europe. Further elements of the construction of this European structure began to emerge. I am thinking here of the narrative that has been introduced, that a new European nation should be created, that I am thinking of a common European economy, that there should be common finances, and that there should be a common, increasingly extensive institution. It turned out that this is not the answer to growing problems in an increasingly fast world. Of course, pears weren't put to sleep in ashes. Both the European institutions, including the European Parliament, which could not do much, although he was given more competence for his term of office... Some things have been tried to fix. But what did it turn out to be? Even if we look at recent years in the field of the economy, we will see that all initiatives of the two-pack type, six-packs They didn't work. It was about some kind of sealing of this system that was created. Creating new aid schemes, e.g. programmes addressed to Greece are also proving to be ineffective. Because we need to realise that Monday's decision to give Greece another loan, EUR 86 billion... Well, it's more than we, a country four times the population, got to be used for the entire 7 years. And these elements from recent years, in my opinion, show that the reform of European structures through small steps will unfortunately not succeed. As the facts show, this is no longer working, so I do not see the possibility of success in the future. What's the solution? In my opinion, this is a major treaty change that we should be talking about, but not in a government forum, because governments have more bound hands, but we should talk about it in individual national parliaments. What would this reform depend on? We should return to our roots, because, as the first thirty years show, the added value of the European Communities was indeed significant at that time. Of course, I do not mean a literal return to the Treaties of Rome, because it has been 65 years since, but we need new treaties to come back to this in order to create a way, a European tool to show how we are going to build common connections, not to create bureaucratic structures. 'Cause I think that's what's happening right now. What would this return to the roots depend on, and on what would it be based? Everyone, even the most titled person in their field Whether it's a doctor, whether it's a dancer or an architect, it should go back to the basic step or to such technical elements. Lawyers should keep reminding themselves of the main principles of the law so that they do not go astray. And that's what happens when someone closes up very much in their field. This return to roots should be based, among others. on what Senator Ryszka mentioned, saying that we should remember that more than a thousand years of Christian tradition in Europe is our basis, and that we should write this firmly and clearly in the Treaty. We should also refer there to respect for the history and diversity of individual nations and countries, bearing in mind their diversity in terms of natural conditions and in the economy. The experiment of common financial solutions in Europe is not working. We should go back to the ways that the founding fathers of Europe have talked about and from which it all started, i.e. from 4 freedoms, of course supplemented by what has been positive in the last 50 or 60 years, because such things have been achieved by the European Union at that time. This return to the roots and creation, I will repeat this once again. Not an institution, but a way to develop our continent should restore to us the position that we dream of all the time and in which we believe, the position that will give us, whether it is the first, or it is another leading place in the whole world. Because it may turn out that current powers such as North America, China or increasingly developing South America, of course with their problems, will be more effective than we do. And in time, and not long, it may turn out that we Europeans will be looking for a place in other parts of the world for peace, will get a life for their families. I believe that if we do not initiate these major treaty changes quickly and efficiently, major changes in Europe, our problems will grow. Because the method of small steps in fixing what is happening in Europe is ineffective. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u115	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After Senator Włosowicz's speech, I am prepared to correct my opinion a little bit, but also to note some logical inaccuracies. You're demanding. And not just you, Mr. Senator. For Europe to return to its sources, i.e. the creators of Christian Europe. But at the same time you note that the PiS has changed its position, from the negation of the European Union as a creation that blocks development or is even lethal to some environments to today's expectation expressed in your view, including that Europe is slow, that a united Europe is slow, unable to solve crises, gross domestic product is growing less than 1.5% than the United States and other communities or continents. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, Not so as to suppress the need for greater development, especially bureaucracy It is only after a long period that the United States, which is shown as an example, has achieved an internal integration process. Only in 1964 were the rights granted to the Negroes, after terrible fights, after terrible demonstrations, especially demonstrations. Only then did laws come out that allowed all Negroes to be treated as equals. [[African-Americans.]] Let us add that the United States is also unable to cope with immigration, as evidenced by the outcome of Trump's elections, and, even worse, building walls on the border with Mexico. So this is not just a European phenomenon, and in the name of the fact that some values have been forgotten. It's also worth remembering. Especially if anyone else listens to Radio Maryja, I listen to I don't think we're aiming for the values that are given... In the second largest city with the largest number of Poles, almost 2 million, i.e. in Chicago, during the research conducted by the Church, it turned out that only 54 thousand of our compatriots attended Masses in October and November, for which 150 churches had been built by their compatriots. You can imagine that this kind of civilization isn't free from the dreams that my colleagues think about, and that I partially... share to a large extent. Europe is a creation that was created on different conditions and, colleagues, you must also remember. The poor emigrated to the United States. Wańkowicz describes it beautifully In fact, religious people, united by the fact that they had nowhere to go, so they built. They were built on the basis of language, common and only... I pay attention to this because there are languages in Europe Mr. Minister, correct me. I'm sure it's about 60, maybe almost 100. Well, there were 17 languages in the former Yugoslavia itself, as far as I know. Maybe I made a mistake. Let's say there's 50 of them. They built on the basis of common money, based on the constitution that began with our nation... And what is included in the constitutions of individual members of the European Union or of the countries of Europe? We, Poles... I don't mind, but I'd like to have an extra note: "We, Poles, us, Europeans." And finally, the United States are people who, as poor people, sought wealth. The European Union started marching the other way, the rich accepted the poor and in the name of solidarity they helped them to make Europe even stronger. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Jack Wolosowicz. I'm sorry, Hairy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The two points that Senator Rulewski raised relate to my speech. I have such a nature that I care about my home. I make sure the grass is cut, winter snow is snowed, so that there's a good façade, so that there's order outside, as well as inside this house. In this way I also try to present my ideas and do my job, implement my mandate in my constituency and work for my country. It did not come out of my mouth to say that the United States is some perfect country, a model to which we are aiming. I said that they are a natural competitor, because because of social and economic similarities we can compete with them. That's the first thing. What Americans do... I think there are a lot of bright, experienced and smart people out there, because the country's achievements over the past 30 years and that they've left Europe far behind, they've proved something. But this is American business. Let them do what they want. I'm sure they'll be fine. The financial crisis that emerged in 2008 due to the very hasty financial decisions of America was the collapse of the Lehman Brothers Bank in some way and the current stock exchange rates, which somehow show the state of the economy, have historical maxima in the United States. We in the country are pleased that the stock market has been at the highest level for 8 years, that mood indicators, according to the data published this week, are higher, etc. And I'm sure the Americans can handle it. Practice shows that it's probably better than us. We can learn from them when it comes to what they do better, but I don't think they're the ideal we're going to pursue. We should be worried about what we're doing. This is the first case. And the second question, about the evolution of the Law and Justice, which I have been a member of for many years and whose principles or values are not so much common to me as they simply are internally adopted. As far as I remember, and this time before 12 or 13 years ago I seem to remember well, in 2004, as part of the campaign before the European referendum, I held many meetings with my colleagues from the Law and Justice at that time, calling for a vote in favour of joining the European Union. And there were no question marks. The next few years, the next few events. In 2007 the Commission As I recall, this was probably the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon on 13 December. Then we had to wait until 2 years, until December 2009 for it to even exist. That's what I think shows this fuss in Europe. For the new legal standard, the new treaty, to come into force, had to be two years. I think it happened during that period... If this treaty had been signed in 2009, it probably would have been different. In 2004, we entered a Europe that was different from 2009. If, after this treaty change, we see some things that I mentioned in my statements... the whole hall, from left to right, indicated today that many things should be organized differently. If we think that it is not what it should be, and economic statistics... every day gives us evidence, then we should not criticize everything and be angry with Europe, but think about it together. What Mr. Minister mentioned How to transform it so that we can live safer, because in these days it is, I believe, the main expectation of all citizens, and of course at the right level and of course with full freedom of spirit, as well as the statements that independent will allows us to formulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u119	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to talk long, because the discussion I've been listening to is interesting and multifaceted, but I'll quote President Reagan. I'm not hiding that my favorite president of the United States And I encourage you to subscribe to his library because his quotes are incredibly inspiring. It's a short quote, and it won't be directly about refugees, although there are others. There he is. America is still stronger It's from the State of the Union presented in Congress. Because of the values that are dear to us. We believe that faith and freedom must be our guiding stars, because they show us the truth, they make us brave, they give us hope, and they make us wiser than we used to be. Our progress does not begin in Washington, but in the hearts of our families, our environments, our workplaces and groups of volunteers who together unleash the invincible spirit of this great nation. And it would be good for Europe to take these guidelines to heart sometimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-22-senat-35-2.u121	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed... Isn't there anyone who volunteered? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, there isn't. The discussion is closed. The Minister wanted to speak, but he was summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... [[But he'll come back?]] [[He'll be back someday.]] ...so I would like to thank Minister Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July (Slovakia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). Now... I'm a little scared... but I'm announcing a recess... but I'm announcing a recess until Friday, February 24th, until 2:00 p.m. Thank you all... [[What year?]] Mr. Senator Szymanski, don't let me in here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Lock the door so someone doesn't come in.]] Thank you very much. Friday at 2:00 p.m. we meet. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 14 minutes 24]]
