ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call you Krystian Jarubas, Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Agata Borowiec and Małgorzata Golinska to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Members of the House: Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka and Krystian Jarubas. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Agata Borowiec. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u2	Message on today's team meetings. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Cluster policy - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u3	Thank you, Member. The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 60th anniversary of the start of the European integration process. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws, - about mortgage credit and supervision of mortgage brokers and agents. The reports shall be printed in 1387 and 1393 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on these items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Criminal Code Act, the Juvenile Procedure Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, - on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts. The reports shall be printed in 1396 and 1388 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and heard three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on these items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has submitted an additional report on the draft Act amending the Environmental Law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the candidate for the post of Deputy President of the Court of State. The opinion is in print No 1386. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. Before we go to the next point, i.e. examine item 14 of the agenda, supplementing the communication. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u4	Today, on behalf of the organizers, I invite you to the main hall of the Sejm, where at hours. The 12th exhibition will be opened by the Samaritans from Markowa. Poles murdered by the Germans for helping Jews, as well as for hours. 19 to the conference room of the new House of Poselski for the screening of our daily bread depicting the history of the Ulm family and other families saving Jews during World War II. I would like to inform you that today there will also be meetings of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9.30 a.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Foreign Affairs - 10.30 p.m. , - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14.15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 15, - Legal notice - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Waldemar Andzel, Dariusz Starzycki and Jarosław Gonciarz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a question on the Polish space program addressed to the Minister for Development. Minister Adam Hamryszczak will reply to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. You're welcome, first of all... The question is raised jointly by Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Historically, Poland started its participation in space programs from the international program Intercosmos. It was back in the old days. Over the last 40 years, however, a large, large space sector - scientific centres, commercial companies - has gained a lot of experience and has real achievements. It was essential for the space sector to cooperate with the European Space Agency. Thanks to it Poles were able to participate in scientific programs, and Polish devices were included in most research missions. Many Polish companies have a great potential for knowledge and experience, which would enable them to be quickly involved in this activity. They are primarily companies from the aviation and defence sectors, and they are also companies from the IT sector. The space sector in Poland as a new branch of the economy is still not a well-developed area. The development of this area can significantly strengthen the innovation of the Polish economy and industry. I therefore ask the Minister, "What is the development strategy of this sector, and how are young, talented young people included in this strategy?'
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland has developed its own space sector over the last 20 and 30 years, which has already gained a lot of experience and has real achievements. It consists of several scientific centres, dozens of research groups in universities and dozens of small and medium-sized enterprises. They, in turn, undertake projects related to satellite techniques or space technologies. What measures are envisaged by the Ministry of Development for the Polish space programme and are there risks to the financing of the programme? And one more question: How will the government help companies and research institutes in the space sector to develop them, how does it expect them to invest in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u8	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u9	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the space strategy is concerned, I will present some of the most important issues relating to this particular topic. In order to build stable and efficient cooperation between science and industry, develop innovative technologies and support foreign cooperation to stimulate innovation-based economic growth in the space sector, a Polish space strategy was developed in the Ministry of Development. Let me remind you that this document was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2007 by a resolution. The Polish space strategy covers the horizon of the years 2017 and 2030, and the coordination of implementation measures and supervision of implementation of the strategy are entrusted by a resolution to the minister responsible for economic affairs, i.e. de facto the Minister for Development and Finance. With regard to the vision of the Polish space strategy presented in the document, it is presented as follows. The space sector is an important element of the Polish knowledge and innovation economy, and its links with other areas of the economy promote their competitiveness. On the other hand, the strategic objectives that have been presented by 2030 are as follows. The Polish space sector will be able to compete effectively on the European market and its turnover will be at least 3% overall turnover of this market, i.e. in proportion to the Polish economic potential. The Polish public administration will use satellite data for faster and more efficient performance of its tasks and national companies will be able to fully meet internal demand for such services and export them to other markets. The Polish economy and public institutions will have access to satellite infrastructure to meet their needs, especially in the field of security and defence. As far as the specific objectives are concerned, because you also asked, I would like to draw attention to two important objectives, i.e. to create favourable conditions for the development of the space sector in Poland, and when it comes to young people, it is above all to build human resources for the needs of the Polish space sector. The two most important instruments for implementing the strategy are to increase Polish participation in ESA's optional programmes - in accordance with the principle of geographical return, they are in fact most of the measures to support the Polish industry performing contracts for ESA - and to develop and implement the National Space Programme as a necessary complement to international activities. The strategy also includes the use of existing sources of funding - whether EU funds, NCN funds or NCBiR - without the need for additional expenditure, only in some cases properly profile the relevant programming documents. A number of resorts will be involved in the implementation of the Polish space strategy. The first is to mention those who participated directly in the preparation of the strategy and contribute to the financing of the ESA membership contribution. These include: Ministry of Development, Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All members of the Interministerial Group will also participate in the implementation of the Strategy. Space policy. A special role is provided for the Polish Space Agency, which is responsible for the development of the National Space Programme mentioned by me as the second, in addition to optional ESA programmes, a tool for the implementation of the Polish space strategy, which is also connected with the expenditure from the state budget. The work on the preparation of the NCP should be completed by the end of 2017 and it is therefore not possible at this stage to indicate the exact budget or content of the planned programme. The implementation of the Polish Space Strategy also provides for the involvement of the IDA. I would also like to stress, as regards financial issues, that thanks to the additional funding from the budget of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Polish contribution to optional programmes increased by 25% compared to the previous 2012 subscription from Naples. It should be stressed that the membership fee paid to ESA is a direct investment in the development of the Polish space sector, because according to the principle of geographical reimbursement most contributions return to the country in the form of contracts for its industry and scientific units. Therefore, the strategy assumes an increase in the Polish contribution optionally, to a level of 200% of the compulsory contribution, which is actually an average proportion for the other Member States of the agency. This ultimately means an optional contribution of around EUR 40 million per year. On the other hand, according to the current commitment, the Polish optional contribution for the period 2007 to 2020 amounts to around 12.5 million euros per year. This is a relatively small commitment, e.g. over EUR 22 million paid by Romania or more than EUR 24 million of the contribution paid by the Czech Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. And an additional question - Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a member of the European Space Agency, as the Minister has already said, we are paying a contribution. The Minister has indicated the amount of this contribution. The Agency announces various programs and competitions addressed to Polish universities and various companies that deal with the space industry. Therefore, I would like to ask what is the financial participation of Polish companies and Polish universities in the implementation of these programs. How much of this contribution goes back to Poland? The Minister has already said this in part, but how did it evolve in previous years and what are the forecasts for the future? And one more supplementary question for young people. Because Polish students who study at Polish universities have been actively participating in various competitions organized by space agencies in the United States, in Europe and are very successful, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask about the government's plans to support these young people so that they will stay and work for the Polish space industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u12	Thank you. And the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u13	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the issues that have been raised in the question are concerned, the ideal return is, of course, 0.92, and as far as Poland is concerned, it is at 0.88, so that this is a very good result, I want to stress that. Of course, it could be better, while 0.88 is also a good result. As far as young people are concerned, I have actually said in my first speech that we want to build staff within the space industry, but I will also pay attention to those actions that we are taking in support of start-ups. I think that they will also contribute to the fact that more and more young people will carry out projects on the space industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński and Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club, raise the question about the unilateral break-up of mediation by President Opole with representatives of the municipality of Łodziń Wielki. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We note with regret that President Opola issued a statement on 19 March in which he announced his withdrawal from mediation. The pretext was participation in mediation in the protest march. It should be noted that the government, after a hunger protest lasting 17 days, decided to meet with the starving party. At the same time, he took note of and blessed the fact that mediation would take place. In fact, this patronage causes the government to have some kind of responsibility, of course, for the decision to enlarge the Opole, as well as for bringing these mediations to a happy finale. From the information I have, I know that this week, just Friday, there was going to be a proposal for a solution, which, of course, is not going to happen. This shows, however, that the compromise proposal was at hand, in fact, ready to discuss with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, as the elements of this compromise were changes in borders. Here's the question of what is the government's attitude towards the president's unilateral decision. Has this decision been consulted with the Minister? Does the government intend and how to resolve the problem in order to end mediation with binding agreements between the parties and the relevant agreement? It seems important because this protest and this conflict last long. He had his dynamics and dramatic impressions and it seems that without ending his agreement he will continue, will still be a painful wound on the map of local government [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland. Hence the intention of the question is, Minister, if you are able to bring the parties back to the table of conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u16	Thank you. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! First of all, in answer to your question, it is necessary to stress that the mediation we are discussing was conducted - and I will say on behalf of the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the Government, that we hope that it will continue - between the city of Opole and the municipality of Dzień Wielki and its protesting inhabitants. According to the information received from the representative of the government in the field, the Opole voivodeship, it appears that the break-up of mediation by the President of the City of Opole was connected - as the Member said - with the participation of members of the mediation team representing the side of the municipality of Zbędzyń Wielki, headed by Mr Henryk Wróblem, and others at the public assembly. The March in defence of self-government, which took place last Sunday, 19 March this year, on the streets of Opola. During this assembly, its participants, including members of the mediation team - this is also reflected on web portals, from which I partially have printouts - from the part of the commune of Dobrzeń Wielki, manifested the content which was received by President Opole, and it is hardly surprising, because these content are, as a demonstration of views and aspirations contrary to the purpose of mediation and as a manifest violation of the media silence. In this sense, maybe it's hard to say Pretext. However, these are real views and attitudes manifested publicly by members of the mediation team. I will quote here a passage from President Opole's statement - it is certainly familiar to you, Mr President, but I do not know exactly whether it is known to the public and the High House, so I will mention it - because it says a lot: In relation to the Sunday manifestation, which was organized and attended by members of the mediation team, and referring to the fact that the Chief of Goodness of the Great Henryk Spróbel, together with the council of the municipality, is conducting consultations, whose aim is to reverse the decisions of the Council of Ministers changing the borders of the Opole, I declare that Opole is withdrawing from mediation. In the light of the above, it is difficult to conclude that they are at all taking place. Conversations and attempts to reach agreement, when one of its parties at the same time is fighting to undermine the existing and subsequent arrangements, must look ridiculous and are doomed to failure. Moreover, in this situation they undermine the authority of other participants in the talks: the Opole Voivodeship, the Bishop of the Opole Diocese and representatives of the city. The change in the borders of Opole, which took place on 1 January 2017, has become an undeniable fact. On the other hand, there is a field for talking about cooperation between local governments. Therefore, we remain open to possible discussions on financial and material cooperation between our local authorities. We are ready to extend financial cooperation for the next years, as well as take responsibility for the future of the school team in the municipality of Łodziń, if that is the will of the municipality authorities. The discussions on support are still possible, but they cannot be held under pressure from threats and protests, without any guarantee of the sustainability of the agreement - this, once again, is part of the statement by President Arkadiusz Wiśniewski. President Opole's decision to withdraw from mediation was not agreed - this is the answer to the Member's question, one of the questions - with the Opole Voivodeship as a representative of the government. The President of the City of Opola, like any other representative, a local government body, is a representative of this local government, who independently performs the public tasks entrusted to it and takes decisions related to it. On the other hand, the government in these mediations was - we hope that it will continue, and this hope I want to emphasize very strongly - represented by the Opole Voivodeship, which is only an observer. He is not a member of the negotiating team, he is not a party - he is merely an observer and he is not empowered to interfere in the arrangements made by the parties to mediation. It is also worth pointing out that the meeting in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration with Ms Aneta Gibek-Wisniewska, mediator of the municipality of Łodziń Wielkie, was cancelled at the request of Mrs. We hope, on behalf of the Ministry and the Government, that the parties will return to the partnership talks, mediation will resume and will bring good results that will serve the further development of both local government units, i.e. the city of Opola and the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki, and improve the quality of life of their residents in the future closer and further. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration expects the participants to mediate - and this is what she is asking - and your mediator is asking for - official information on the results of mediation after, we hope, their renewal and bringing to the finals, to the findings. So that we expect the goodwill of the parties. As the Ministry, we want the parties to return to their conversations. We expect it very much, that's what we're asking. However, the circumstances in which they were broken by one of the parties, even in the light of what I have quoted, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think they're understandable, too. But you have to look for a way out of this situation, you have to look for an understanding. The fact that the Council of Ministers regulation to move the borders of individuals has become a legal fact, it must not be denied, but an agreement must be sought under this solution, which will serve well and the city of Opole, which needs development space, and the municipality of Dobrzeń, which also seeks for itself in this new situation, especially economic and social conditions, for further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u18	Thank you, Minister. I ask for an additional question, Mr Tomasz Kostus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Undoubtedly, the most difficult situation is in the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki. Without a doubt, these consequences are the most severe. Let me remind you that as of January 1, this year. This municipality has lost almost half of its income. I would remind you that without the additional support of the government, the Ministry will be very difficult to carry out the basic functions of the Municipal Government Act, or at least during this transitional period of several years. Therefore, once again from the Parliamentary Speaker, from this point I ask the Minister whether the government has any proposal to make amends, compensation to the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki. I've asked this question many times from this place, and I'm asking again. Next question: Will the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, or will the government agree to change borders, agree to a possible revision of the large Opole project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it were found that the parties would agree, if it were found that the parties would reach a compromise? Please respond in writing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u20	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr President, once again, I would like to stress that we look forward to ending mediation, to what the parties, with the kind support of a government representative, the Opole voivode and the Bishop of the Opole diocese, will achieve what they will determine. This is very important because this is an agreement between two neighbouring entities that can support each other. On the other hand, as regards possible threats to the functioning of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki, I think that the Member is wrong, there is no such threat. This municipality has an income per capita above the national average and therefore there is no risk of some major economic problem. So don't put it that way, either, that territorial change will endanger the existence and further functioning of this municipality. But there are problems to be solved and you certainly need to look for a way to do it. Even if it's a school thing, it's one of those things. The experience of President Opole shows that this body does not shirk possible support, perhaps in other matters, but there must be an agreement. The government doesn't have the power to impose anything on local governments. A decision has been taken, in accordance with the powers of the Council of Ministers, to change borders. The point is not to be questioned, because if there is still a struggle to get the status quo ante back, then, of course, it is difficult to negotiate, it is difficult to mediate. I think the parties should understand very well that this fact has occurred. This fact cannot be called into question because there are no reasons or arguments to question it, contrary to what some today may still be articulating or thinking, which was also reported earlier. In such a legal-territorial situation as it is now, you need to look for good solutions. Once again, I call on both units of the local government to look for this, and the government will take a kind look at it and support these solutions that will be negotiated. On the other hand, I repeat and emphasize, it is not true that the existence of the municipality is threatened for economic reasons. That's not real information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Paweł Szramka and Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15 - a question on the temporary registration of a vehicle or the registration of a vehicle on a museum facility to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Jerzy Szmit. Please, Mr. Paweł Szramka is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u23	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, It was not long ago that the Kukiz club 15 called for the possibility of temporary registration of a passenger car from traffic to be introduced in the Road Traffic Law Act. As you know, the temporary withdrawal of a vehicle currently applies only to certain categories of vehicles, i.e. trucks and trailers with a maximum permissible weight exceeding 3,5 t, tractors and special vehicles and buses. The financial Ombudsman takes the view that temporary registration of a vehicle does not exempt the liability of the liability insurance charge. In its assessment, the temporary withdrawal of a vehicle is also not identical to the registration of a vehicle, thus holders of vehicles temporarily withdrawn from service must be protected during that period by compulsory insurance of the civil liability of holders of motor vehicles. Is it therefore planned to change the Road Traffic Law and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances, so that temporary registration of the vehicle will not mean further payment of the OC contribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u24	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The motion submitted by your Members was de facto the warp of the bill, which was notified by the Kukiz Club15, and this draft law was rejected at first reading at the 36th session of the Sejm. We can, of course, return to this discussion, but it seems to me that the arguments that were quoted at the time have not actually changed, as the question has not changed. High Izbo, a Polish vehicle registration and vehicle registration system, is linked to the tax, insurance and vehicle recycling system and the rules for the entry into service and control of vehicles in road traffic. Thus, above all, this request cannot be addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, but more to the Ministry of Finance, because it is responsible for the insurance market and, as you have said, for vehicle insurance matters. Even if we had imagined such a system, we must remember that it would impose on the ancients which today are responsible for the registration of vehicles, very serious additional obligations. 'Cause you'd have to keep extra records. Additional entries would have to be introduced in the CEPiK system. It would also be necessary to take a very significant risk in terms of a situation in which some of the vehicles that are involved in road traffic would simply not be insured, because this, of course, may be tempting when it comes to those who use these cars, but in case of collision, in case of damage, we would be faced with a situation where claims would not actually have an appropriate addressee, there would be no one to claim from. Therefore, High Commission, High Sejm, honourable Members, it seems that the call would be for a large discussion with the Ministry of Finance and, of course, it can be held, but today it seems that changes that would go in a random, point way could actually harm the insurance system, registration and consequences could be dangerous, especially for those who would suffer in such situations. Today, on the other hand, it would be difficult to estimate the additional costs that local governments would have to bear, the oldities that today are responsible for the registration and registration of vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u26	Thank you. I'm asking you for an extra question. Mr Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to draw attention to another problem related to the total or temporary registration of a vehicle, which is intended to be used for museum purposes, so it is exhibitional. The owners of the vehicles used for museum purposes have a huge problem because they cannot fully register the vehicle, because it imposes a total cancellation obligation, nor can they stop paying the OC contributions, even though the vehicle is not used in road traffic. It's kind of absurd. Lovers of old vehicles who want to create a museum and make it available for visitors must pay a lot of insurance for the OC and leave the vehicle registered. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether changes are planned in the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances, which will make it possible to completely register the vehicle used for museum purposes, while not having to pay the OC contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Today, regulations that concern registration of vehicles do not exclude museum vehicles in any particular way, but, undoubtedly, if we assume that a vehicle that would be registered could therefore no longer be used in road traffic, this issue can be considered. On the other hand, I think we would certainly have to do this together with the Minister of Finance and this very detailed one, but for many people a very important aspect of this problem is certainly worth discussing, so we are as a ministry open to this discussion and we are ready for this discussion. I think that maybe during the work of the Infrastructure Committee we could discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members: Marek Sowa, Jerzy Meysztowicz, Michał Jaros, Mirosław Suchoń, Adam Szłapka, Adam Cyrański and Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club - a question about staff changes in the Polish army and the appointment of officers as military attaché. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Minister Antoni Macierewicz will answer. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister prides himself on the purge in the army at the highest levels of management. Indeed, of the 119 generals remained 71. We're down 48. I would also like to say that 254 colonels are gone. These are very experienced soldiers who worked in Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan, and have achieved a very high level of cooperation with NATO structures. I would also like to point out not to lie to the public, claiming that these are the military who were trained in Moscow. These are soldiers in the vast majority trained in dorms in the United States and the United Kingdom. All over the world he cares about ex-military, they become advisors to presidents and prime ministers. I'd like to ask if any of the military members who have left have been offered a function of this kind. The next question is, where will the experiences of those you're about to promote? In fact, Minister, the truth is that no one wants to work with you or talk to you. Even the President has been communicating with you in the form of letters lately. And to be honest, Minister, as I look at this, if I were an agent and acted for Russia, I would act exactly as you do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u32	Minister! Taking advantage of the possibility to ask a question, now I wanted to ask what the state and status of the NATO counterintelligence centre in Krakow is. We had a situation more than a year ago that Mr Piotr Bącz and Mr Bartłomiej Misiewicz had actually entered there. It was then explained that it was not a NATO unit, because it has not yet been accredited. The question is whether this accreditation has already been obtained. And the question is, is this some kind of disinformation that the Slovak side is pulling out of it. What status is there, what countries are involved and what it looks like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The situation at the center of counterintelligence at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u33	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you very much for these questions, as well as for accompanying the first question in particular, or perhaps even the dominant in this first question, opinions and assessments of their own competences as regards possible cooperation with foreign services. I note that the Member has been considering how to act in a situation of possible cooperation with foreign intelligence. As far as the departures you asked for were concerned, they were somehow related to this issue. To some extent they were related to this issue. First of all, I am thinking about illustrative matters, not about science in Moscow, because when I came to the Ministry, it turned out that more than 700 representations were not submitted to the Institute of National Remembrance. Unfortunately, there were also illustrious statements by the colonel and some of the consequences had to be drawn from it. Only because the number of colonels who left the army was a little higher, but not much, than the number of colonels who left a year earlier. I would like you to acknowledge that the army is an organism similar to other organisational structures of the Polish state. People retire, leave on their own personal matters, and leave for reasons that are independent of each other. Thus, this process of leaving is not solely related to staff decisions taken by the Minister or by direct superiors. In this case, the small increase was mainly related to illustrative matters. Why my predecessors had to hide in the drawer the illustrious statements that they had a statutory obligation to pass to the Institute of National Remembrance, unfortunately I do not know. I would also like to stress that there are proceedings to clarify the issue you are talking about. Such actions are really taking place, and they will likely have consequences. The assessment of our partners in NATO - the state of the Polish army from this point of view - is different from your assessment. This is best demonstrated by the decisions taken at the NATO Summit. For decades, but especially for years in which you were so close to the formation, unfortunately, it was not possible to obtain support from the United States Army or NATO army in Poland. Now we have succeeded and, as you know, the first US troops are stationed in Poland, and NATO troops are preparing for this and will be stationed in Poland in April. As for the second question concerning NATO's improvement centre, yes, it is exactly what you say. Indeed, last year, in 2015, this structure was not a NATO-Nation structure because it did not receive certification. And she did not receive certification for many reasons, among others. because she occupied the building, occupied rooms that didn't have access to classified information. Again, why such a decision was then taken, that there were classified and secret documents kept there, although there was no right to judge it, not to judge me, it is now, as you know, an independent court of the Republic of Poland. Indeed, the people who did this had to leave the centre of NATO's improvement. There was no NATO certification for that organizational structure. The corrective steps taken by me led to the fact that over a month ago this certification was granted by NATO and the NATO improvement centre, founded or initiated jointly by the Slovak Ministry and the Ministry of the Republic of Poland, has been operating for over a month, combining the cooperation of 10 NATO countries. And it works effectively, despite various diversionary behaviours, including false rumors disseminated, certainly not by modern Members. I do not believe that modern Members would like to lay hands on such activities which are very popular recently, and are called disinformation and are at the heart of interest in important powers such as the United States, Germany or the United Kingdom. This type of action has recently spread to the security of NATO countries. In Poland the center of NATO improvement works effectively, well. And if anybody had thought about doing it in the future, [[♪ The bell ♪]] such disinformation activities, this centre will certainly be useful in countering such behaviour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u35	Thank you, Minister. And I ask for an additional question, Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u36	As far as disinformation specialists are concerned, what the media are reporting is that there is one person in the Ministry of National Defence who is dealing with this on a large scale. Minister, you must admit, however, that the scale of military departures with the highest qualifications and grades is the highest in history. And this has necessarily led to our state of defence being clearly threatened in this way. Besides, this concern has also been expressed recently by the President. But I would also like to ask you about a few of these things, which are crucial, because these changes in staff have led to something. What is with the Technical Planning of the Armed Forces? What happens to the implementation of the Vistula program, the helicopter and ship program? Why was one battalion of the 11th armored division transferred to the Merryland, depriving it of the training and workshop facilities and thus weakening its impact force? What about the command of a multi-national division in Elbląg? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u37	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that Members do not need to have precise information about the state of affairs, and this is what they do. questions or discussions during meetings of the National Defence Committee, including here in the Sejm. But if you don't know, it's better to ask, not say it's not true. Because it's a confirmation that it's not true, and it's better not to do that. The greatest departures, not only in the history of the Polish army in general, but even in the history of the last 10 years, took place in 2010 and 2011 and were nearly twice as much as they are now. So please do not only disinformed the High House, but also so many young people gathered here, which I warmly greet. [[Applause]] Because Polish youth is really, really this... [[Get to the point, Minister, get to the point. There was a question.]] ...an essential component of our national existence, which... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] ...has a very important impact on the strengthening of the Polish army. I would like to tell you and my fellow Members that 16,000 have just signed up for territorial defence, which has recently been formed and largely based on young people. young people. [[Misiewicz.]] 16,000. young people. It's worth appreciating. With regard to your questions related to the Vistula programme, the ship's programme and other programmes you have asked about, they are all implemented as planned so far, Mr Wistl, and it is worth knowing that for the first time in more than 10 years in 2016 the financial programme for modernisation was fully implemented for the modernisation expenditure of the Polish army. For the first time. This is worth mentioning because this was not done to the governments of the Civic Platform in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 or 2015. So in this matter, everything is going very well. The same applies to the organisation of the Elbląg International Divisional Command. I hope that the Member remembers that this is the work of the government, Prime Minister Szydło, because this is the government that negotiated with NATO that this is the organisational structure that will lead, direct, regulate [[♪ The bell ♪]] joint operation of all NATO battalion battle groups located in Poland. This is the weight of this structure and it will be put into service by NATO as planned... [[NATO doesn't trust you.]] ...that's in 2017. I thank the Member very much for his concern, and I ask for the future not to state the truth, but to ask the things which he does not understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[NATO doesn't trust you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u39	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - a question about the construction of a water reservoir on the Wisłoka river in Kąty-Myscowa. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will answer. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! For decades, efforts have been underway to build this reservoir on the Vistula River. This reservoir is intended to serve primarily as a flood protection function for the surrounding towns, for the town of Jasła, as well as to secure several towns, several cities, among others. The oak or the Mielec, into the drinking water. These efforts have been going on, as I said, for decades. Several generations, at least two generations of residents are waiting for this tank and they are still promised that this tank will be built. There are various meetings of the committee, away meetings, exchange of letters, extension, there are formal legal problems, it is not completely settled. And I, when I'm in that region, I always hear people's questions about what's going on with us in this area, because the people don't know if this tank's gonna be in a year or two, or 10 or 100 years from now, and it's related to their existence in this area and the existence of their families. Local and local authorities also have problems, because it restricts their development to a certain extent. Therefore, on behalf of the inhabitants, first of all - I already ignore technical issues - I would like to ask the Minister how advanced this investment is today and when it will start, whether an environmental decision has already been reached for this investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And most importantly, have the funds already been secured for this, and from what sources will they come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u41	Thank you very much and I ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for this question, but I am a little surprised. I wanted to say that in 2007, when I was president of the National Water Management Board, we submitted the first application for environmental decisions to the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The Podkarpackie Voivodeship was ruled by the Polish People's Party at the time. Unfortunately, the procedures that were in force in 2007 still allowed environmental decisions to be made, but then what happened? Then Minister Nowicki created a new system for issuing environmental decisions by setting up regional environmental directorates and DG Environment. This system completely paralyzed most investments, among others. that investment. It turned out that in 2013 the Regional Environment Director in Rzeszów broke off previous proceedings and started new ones. He started a new procedure and added that this investment was not in the plans for water management - plans were just being created - and therefore could not make a decision. So there's been a total bureaucratic blockage - bureaucratic, not environmental. And this system, just this example, this case shows how all kinds of water investments are blocked in Poland. Similarly, the investment below Włocławka, the tank Sierzewo. A negative decision was made only because there was no investment in the water management plan and how could it have been since the concept was created in 2014. These are the fumes of absurdity, this is total absurdity. Nevertheless, we do not give up. I am saying that if a good proposal were made in 2007, an environmental decision could be obtained in 2008 and further work could be carried out. Right now, we're getting out of this stalemate situation. The National Environmental Fund - I personally took care of this in order to secure funds for environmental decisions. I hope that this environmental decision will be issued by the end of the year. We have to break this enchanted circle. This tank is actually extremely necessary, extremely important. I was in Rzeszów two weeks ago, I know this story from my studies, because this tank was planned by Gabriel Narutowicz, who was an outstanding hydrotechnician before he became President of the Republic. And we need to build this tank. As far as funding is concerned, we have a few ideas for financing, among others. from European structural investments, from the EFSI. We have the possibility of drawing from other sources, from the World Bank. It seems to me that funding is not a problem - the problem is finally breaking this imposibility in making environmental decisions. It happens that, for example. During the course of the proceedings, a bear or wolf passed there, so reports need to be made again. I had such examples in my professional work, that in the report the Regional Environment Director stated in November, the report was submitted in July, that the stork inventory had to be done. When can you make an inventory of storks? In the spring, which means a year's shift again. Then he said again that you have to inventory frogs to do something else, and you can do it forever. So we have to stop it. Unfortunately, the system introduced by the PO-PSL government for issuing environmental decisions totally failed. It is a blockade, I can say, of sabotage the development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u43	Thank you. Is there an additional question, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u44	Yes, of course, an additional question. Minister, PSL hasn't ruled for decades. I'm glad you have such confidence in us, but that's not what I meant. I wasn't talking about history, I was talking about the facts for today, because they're asking the residents -- I can't come there calmly -- when something's done. Tell me, give me another date. Don't let politicians come here, no matter what option, and don't let them promise us. And I want to remind you, Minister, because you didn't say anything in particular today that you said on 10 December 2015 that the environmental decision would be made by the end of next year, and you promised that you would do everything you could to speed it up to mid-2016. It is now 2017, without a small half of the year, and the Minister will continue for a year or more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On 10 December 2015, you said here that the investment is due to start in 2018. This looks a little ridiculous. I'm just asking what I'm supposed to say to the people, what's the chance, what's the government of magnitude when it comes to years, because I don't believe it's going to be in a year or two years. Just say to the minister: we are able to build it in 10 or 15 years to satisfy ourselves, to give a concrete answer to these people and local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u45	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u46	Thank you very much. As far as construction time is concerned, I think we can build this investment, end really in eight years. [[Minister, a year and a half ago, you said three years from now.]] I'm sorry, yes, but unfortunately, it's this system that's been created, which is still functioning, which is definitely going to have to be changed, and it turned out that it's impossible to make an environmental decision because there are formal barriers again. The formal barrier was among others. the fact that the Rzeszow WIAŚ refused to make a decision because it was not in the water management plan. At the moment, the water management plans are approved by the Government, by the Prime Minister in the form of a regulation of 18 October 2016. This barrier is gone. There are other barriers. In any case, at the moment we have secured about PLN 1.5 million from the national fund to supplement the environmental impact report. This environmental impact report should be carried out this year. I hope that this year will finally be an environmental decision. Indeed, at that time, in December 2015, I may have been overly optimistic, but I did not fully know the reality, I did not fully know this system, which unfortunately is a bureaucratic system, a system blocking investment. The next step will be to draw up documentation of the building permit and to proceed with the implementation. The implementation should take 4 years, because it is possible to build such a tank in 4 years, as it was possible before the war to build a tank in Pork or build a tank in Grodek, where the construction lasted 2 years. This is possible, of course, provided that there is a will and that there is adequate funding, and that we have practically provided funding. Here really the main barrier is environmental decisions. It may turn out that if NGOs make a protest, it will take even longer. It is not enough that there is a risk that the European Commission will have to give its consent to this investment. There's one more thing I'd like to say, by the way. At some point, it was to be built as a dry tank. Only our efforts have caused this to be a multi-purpose tank, to which the European Commission also has some reservations. We believe that this must be a reservoir, and you know it very well, not only to protect against flooding, because these floods cause losses of at least several billion zlotys, but also water protection for people in the Vistula Valley, which is an extremely important issue. Thank you. [[So there's no specific date.]] Eight years from now. [[Next year, I'll allow myself to repeat this question, Minister, to test my credibility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u47	Thank you, Mr Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Krzysztof Maciejewski and Leszek Galemba - a question on the location of European Union funds to address smog problems. The question is also to the Minister of Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment will answer Mr Paweł Salek. The first question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u48	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main cause of air pollution in Poland is the burning of low-quality fuels, often domestic waste, as well as the burning of obsolete furnaces. The problem increases when adverse weather conditions occur. The standards of air pollution are exceeded in many Polish cities, including Krakow, Warsaw, Radom and Kielce. The fight against smog in addition to systemic activities also requires greater involvement from local governments. Minister, what is the Ministry of the Environment doing to effectively fight smog? It is worth noting that EU and national measures available in several actions, priority programmes coordinated by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management allow for ongoing comprehensive investment, education and monitoring activities. To what extent are the funds available to the National Environmental Fund allocated to counter and combat this phenomenon? Is the current level of resources sufficient? I am referring here to the own funds of the national fund, as well as to the EU funds, which are subject to the national fund. Fighting the smog is there is also a task, as I mentioned, which is still under the responsibility of the Marshals of Voivodship Environmental Funds. Reducing low emissions is precisely their task under regional operational programmes. Is it in this regard Are local governments doing this properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u49	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Way of Youth! Thanking you for your question about the problem of air protection, air quality in Poland, I would like to point out that the problem of air protection concerns most of the countries of the European Union, because it is not just a problem of our country. Everyone wants the air to be of the best quality, so that it is of good quality, so that the citizens of Europe and Poland do not have health problems. The main reason for the formation of smog or low air quality in Poland is that fuels that are used by individuals are often of low and poor quality, and boiler devices which are used by citizens are sometimes not meeting the relevant standards. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce in the near future - and these things are happening - two regulations, one of which concerns fuel quality standards, which is implemented by the Ministry of Energy and the other by boiler quality standards, and this is implemented by the Ministry of Development. This regulation on boiler standards is already at the level of the European Commission, because it requires notification to the European Commission, while the amendment to the legislation on fuel standards and later to the regulation is still being reviewed, including. Today at the Ministry of Energy is a meeting agreeing amendments to the bill. Answering the Member's question about what measures Currently, Poland has at its disposal as part of its efforts to improve air quality, I would like to point out that at government level, an institution that implements various types of programmes and coordinates environmental activities in general from the financial side, because it is not only air protection, it is a national environmental fund, which is currently under the 2014-2020 programme of Infrastructure and Environment, i.e. the current programming period of EU funds, has various types of actions and sub-measures, which are aimed at financing the protection of the atmosphere in Poland. I just wanted to mention here some of the basic programs that work, i.e. support investments in renewable energy generation, networking of these investments, promotion of energy efficiency of renewable energy sources, promotion of energy efficiency in public buildings, energy efficiency in the housing sector, efficient cogeneration, development of heating and cooling networks and efficient distribution of energy and heat. I would like to point out that for the first time in the history of its activities, the national fund has launched such a special programme, dedicated to urban heating networks, for district heating, which gives the possibility to finance the connection of new heat consumers, so that in this way we will reduce the amount of energy produced in individual domestic boilers, because people who decide to join the urban heating network will be connected to the district heating system and will naturally no longer emit pollutants. In general, however, the issue of air protection in Poland is that good Polish fuel, coal is in a good Polish boiler, because coal is still the cheapest and most calorie raw material for energy generation, especially as regards non-urbanized areas, also in cities, but also in rural areas. We shouldn't give up on him. Of course, the gasification process is still going on, with the connection to the gas grid too, but please note that gas is more expensive than coal fuel, which makes not everyone just can afford it. Therefore, depending on the wealth of the portfolio, some people still remain with coal. Continuing with the statement on what the national fund still has at present in terms of money related to the fight against smog, I would like to point out that there is also the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, where the fund is called. an operator. Here about 140 million euros are collected and this money will be used all the time, gradually to improve air quality in Poland. In addition, we have a new Norwegian perspective, which will function after 2017, so this is also an important element of the fight for clean air. He also asked about the issue of regional environmental funds and regional operational programmes. I would like to point out that especially for the Śląskie voivodship, the environmental protection fund runs such an individual program, it is a comprehensive elimination of low emissions in the area of the Śląsko-Dąbrowska conurbation, where 240 million euros were allocated to ensure that, especially in this place, in the heart of the Polish industry, this air quality could improve, and this program is still being implemented. On the other hand, as far as what is related to programmes in the Marshal's power, I would like to point out that this, in fact, can be said to be the largest source of this, so that the air quality and overall quality of the environment in Poland improve, because within the framework of regional operational programmes, the Marshals, however, have huge resources gathered to improve this quality, and these are amounts going into billions of zlotys. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u51	Thank you. I'm asking you for an extra question. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u52	Today we are at a certain stage in the development of effective methods to combat not only the effects of the existing smog, but also the reduction is development. However, I think that the best money spent will be those that will clean the air already contaminated. Therefore, I ask: Are there, and if so, what methods of cleaning contaminated air and what is the share of Polish thought in the development of technologies related to the capture of dust already in the air?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u53	Minister! Regional funds for environmental protection have recently not been an effective tool in the hands of marshals in the fight against smog. Why did the Marshals or the voivodship boards, who have serious financial instruments in the form of opportunities to finance air quality measures, manage this money in an inefficient way in many cases? What steps should be taken in the near future to improve the effectiveness of the fight against smog? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u54	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In answer to Mr Maciejewski's question, I would like to point out that from the engineering, technological point of view, Poland has huge achievements in terms of progress in reducing harmful emissions to the atmosphere. I'm talking about the industrial segment, large energy companies, heat and power plants. These are basically very high standards, and they apply to our industry today. The industry, due to these standards, has adapted and is doing very well because, however, these emissions have been radically reduced. Of course, for this reduction and environmental action, for many, many years society and companies have paid, but there is very clear progress. For the good of the manufacturing segment, heat and electricity generation or the rest of the industry, our installations are at European or global level, we need to say this clearly, of course we are talking about air protection. On the other hand, when it comes to individual households, boilers or, as we should call it professionally, heating devices, because we should actually call boilers, it must be said that in Poland, and this is seen at fairs, at various kinds of meetings, the boiler industry is very well prepared, it is really at a high level of technology and engineering, which is evidenced by the export of Polish boilers to countries all over Europe, as well as outside Europe, to ensure that, also in the individual house burners, care for the environment, that is to say that these devices are the best. It must be said that they really are. There's really nothing to be ashamed of here. There are very large companies that produce boilers, but there are also small companies that are doing quite well, and these are already companies that produce a really good product, so-called. Boilers of the fifth generation. As for the question about the regional environmental funds, we would have to ask, Mr Marshals, because today they have power over the voivodship environmental funds. On the other hand, it is a question of how effectively the money collected in each voivodship environmental protection fund was spent and whether it was effectively used to improve air quality in Poland. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Norbert Obrycki and Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, ask a question about the situation in Poland's Maritime Shipping Company. The question is addressed to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Grzegorz Witkowski will answer. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u57	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The situation in Polish Maritime Shipping is a typical example of the policy of ownership of the Treasury company by the political party Law and Justice. The away meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation and the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Group, which took place recently to discuss the situation in Polish Maritime Shipping, unfortunately did not provide an answer to the basic questions. It did not even give parliamentarians an answer to the fundamental question whether there were statutory conditions, I stress: statutory, to introduce the commission board to the Polish Maritime Shipping. The representative of the Ministry of Development responsible for the Treasury company gave the disarming and total embarrassing answer that the law is old and does not conform to our times. I would therefore like to ask you to answer, except for the presentation of economic cycles on the markets of world franchises, which were the direct reasons for introducing the commission board in Polish Maritime Shipping. Were those management errors? In addition to one chief executive, the entire management team was left, so I don't think that was the main reason. Were these wrong decisions regarding the purchase of ships? In view of the fact that the Ministry itself stresses the market's unpredictability, fluctuations, instability of the economic situation in the franchise market, this, too, was probably not a sufficient reason. Or were these issues related to the inability to cooperate with the new management of the newly appointed Ministry, in particular with the Deputy Minister, who currently serves as the Commissioner of the Polish Maritime Shipping? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u58	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u59	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The question about the cause of PZM's debt and the situation in this largest Polish shipping company is not for us, that is the question for you. For 8 years, you have done nothing to keep Poland's Sea Shipping straight. Minister Brzezicki, who is now the Commissioner, has left PLN 1 billion, 80 ships and 3,000 in the accounts of PŻM. persons employed. After eight years, we have less than 60 ships. We have an indebted company and a situation in which we need to take drastic, radical steps on its extension, and international partners, banks are terrified to see what is happening. I'm not gonna abstract the situation on the franchise market because it's a key issue. The BDI index, Baltic Dry Index, measures the transport of raw materials by sea. Do you have any idea what level he's at? [[You have to look in the card to know.]] $770. Four times less than it was two years ago. 20 ships were ordered in the Far East shipyards. Do you know why? Because we don't know. And that's what the commissioner, the commission board, is auditing, that's why there's control to answer these questions. There wouldn't be any of these questions, ladies and gentlemen, if you hadn't eliminated the Ministry of Maritime Affairs eight years ago. The first decision you made, apart from throwing away the Vistula Mill case, was... [[But talk about PJM, not the ministry. You're sloppy.]] ...the expulsion, the liquidation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, where ports, shipyards... [[What are you talking about, what ports? About P.M.M., talk to me. You've already made a mistake.]] PJM would have a host. In 2007, 20 vessels were ordered by the Far East Shipyards for the so-called. The hills. That's the main reason for this. [[That Chinese shipyards have fallen.]] PŻM's capital group also suffered losses on operating activities earlier, while bearing high costs of servicing credit contracts. The investment programme has also been financed, which so far, means until then, has been covered by the cash reserves. Our ministry is waiting for final and verified data from the JPM. We haven't had control of the P.J.M. so far. [[Who did?]] The State Treasury control was illusory. The principal debt of PJM concerns long-term credit agreements, and this is the amount of about $400 million that the PJM Group has concluded in recent years for the financing of the investment programme that I mentioned earlier. The investment programme, ladies and gentlemen, was carried out on the basis of funding from foreign banks - RBS, whose claims on the group were redeemed by the Bank of America. Now we have to negotiate with them the repayment of this debt or the redemption by the Polish banks so that we have any control over the debt, the repayment of the debt by the PZM group. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking you for an extra question. Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u61	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I have a request that you instruct the Minister. If today, almost two years after the election, you come and say that you have no control over PJM, I will remind you, Mr. Marshal, that not anyone else, only President Lech Kaczyński did not sign a bill that restored your control over PJM to the Treasury. It happened eight years ago. Today, the minister comes and snuggles us here, the minister from the sluggishness, saying that he didn't have control. This is the company that PiS has always run, and everyone knew it. These are your debts, and these are your mismanagement. You're gonna have to answer for that today. Gentlemen, you have interrupted the session of the Maritime Affairs Committee in Szczecin, you have not allowed a motion for rejection. I demand information, Marshal. I demand that you obey the law. I demand information about what you say: What are the credits? What are the amounts? What's the repair program? What are you planning? This is the third time you haven't answered any questions. We're gonna have to go to court with you to find out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you want to do about it? I demand answers to the questions: What loans? What amounts? What is the state of PJM's debt? What's the recovery plan? How many people are you gonna fire? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u62	Thank you, sir. I, too, have a request to the Member, which I have already asked many times. If the microphones are on, you can hear them very well. There is no need to shout, sir. [[Please, of course, just don't yell. You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u63	Mr. Marshal, maybe you didn't notice, but I wasn't asking you to pay my attention, I was just asking you not to participate in a violation of the law. You know what I'm talking about. I am talking about an away meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee, at which, in your presence, the President, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, refused to vote on the motion to reject the information on PJM. You're hiding the truth about PJM. You're hiding. Not in front of us. You hide it from the public, from the trade unions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u64	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u65	...and before the residents of Szczecin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u66	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u67	It's a disgrace, Marshal Brudziński, that you're involved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u68	Thank you, sir. As it turns out, you can question and even invectives, direct, not necessarily screaming. [[Can you answer that?]] Please respond to Minister Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna... [[He was screaming.]] I have to say this. Don't wipe your mouth. Professor Lechem Kaczyński... [[Don't cry on me. Talk about facts. Tell me about the P.M.M.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...because it was your environment that led to his death and that disaster. So I'm asking you, sir, not to... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Scandal, what do you say, disgrace.]] [[Voice from the hall: I'll take care of it, man...]] Poland Maritime Shipping is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u70	Excuse me, Minister... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: ...the fifth ship owner in the world... Minister, I'm so sorry. I ask the Minister to move on to the substantive part of the answer... [[Apology.]] ...and Members of the House, please allow me to give you an answer to the Minister. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Grzegorz Witkowski: Poland Maritime Shipping is the fifth shipowner in the world, it has more than 60 ships. We're not gonna make this happen, we're not gonna let this company get stolen, it's gonna be wiped out... [[Voice from the room: Through the PiS.]] ...to get people fired, as it was in the case of e.g. Szczecin Shipyard. We are taking action - and the commission board is an example of this - which is aimed at improving the profitability of PZM. Once again, there are difficult negotiations with the Western banks to improve the credit situation of PJM in order to realise control of this company, because contrary to what you say, there really was a problem with ownership supervision over this... [[That's what we said. You're the ones who blocked it.]] This is an important subject, I'm talking about P.J.M.... [[You don't know what you're saying. Some gibberish.]] ...in the expansion of Poland's position on the international maritime transport market, the difficult market, because the prices of this freight are extremely low, is an extremely difficult situation. Therefore, the priority will be to secure the employment of the PJM crew and the recovery plan will take into account 100%. [[The minister said he'd be slowing down.]] That's all. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Congratulations, Joachim...]] Let's move on to the next question. Mr President, Members, I apologise, Mr Głuchowski and Mr Nolas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a question on the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to organise an information campaign explaining the causes and consequences of possible changes in the agricultural pension system - a question addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Jacek Bogucki will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Głuchowski is the first question to be asked by Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the Minister of Agriculture: Is the Ministry of Agriculture planning an information campaign explaining the causes and effects of changes in the agricultural pension and insurance system in agriculture? Currently, in many towns of Lublin Voivodeship, but not only in this voivodship, large numbers of flyers have appeared sold by politicians of the Polish People's Party. One can read from them, among others, that, quote: Polish People's Party won agricultural pensions, Law and Justice took agricultural pensions, forced farmers to work 5 years longer, since 2018 all farmers will work 5 years longer, 160 thousand. zł - this is how much the family will lose in the country by eliminating agricultural pensions. The leaflets are kept in dark, sinister colors, they are part of the propaganda struggle. Lubelska village, the Polish village awaits an effective and convincing information campaign. The allegations of the Polish People's Party in the Lublin Voivodeship were answered, among others. Ms Teresa Nolas, President of the Trade Union of Individual Farmers.Solidarity, who stated that: Law and Justice did not raise the retirement age for farmers and did not raise the retirement age for anyone. Law and Justice reduced the retirement age to that before 2012, when the coalition of PO and PSL raised the retirement age to 67 years of age. As long as she's raised that age, any professional group can figure it out. Law and Justice only fulfilled their electoral promises and adopted the presidential bill, reduced the retirement age for all Poles. However, the voice of the president of the union, the voice of the parliamentarians of Law and Justice is not enough to resist the wave of lying consciously disseminated by the politicians of the Polish People's Party. Farmers expect a clear communication, efficiently [[♪ The bell ♪]] the information provided explaining the situation. I think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u72	Thank you. And Minister Bogucki, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to assure you that both the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire government are informing about the government's actions and that information is, of course, available. However, before I go on to say specifically how this information will be transmitted, I would like to remind you of what the Member has already said, but to put the facts straight. Thus, an increase in the retirement age to 67 for men and women was introduced by the Act of 11 May 2012 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, and published in the Official Journal of 6 June 2012. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2013. The Act on behalf of the PO-PSL coalition was presented by the then Minister of Labour and Social Policy Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the current head of the PSL party. The Act was also supported by the then Minister of Agriculture Marek Sawicki. 27 PSL Members voted in favour of the Act. The Act of 16 November 2016 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws adopted by the Law and Justice reduces the general retirement age to 60 years for women and 65 years for men and restores the legal status in force before 1 January 2013, including the restoration of this status for farmers. The only thing that the PO-PSL coalition has written in the 2012 Act was a transitional period of possibility of passing, among others. by farmers for early retirement at the age of 55 for women and 60 for men respectively, but it is already stated that this possibility expires on 31 December 2017 in accordance with Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 laws. Such a record led to a diametrically higher retirement age for men and women as of 1 January 2018. As regards men, as early as 1 January 2018, men who would not have acquired the right to early retirement could not have acquired it and were born, for example. On 1 January 1958, they would have to wait until they were 67 to retire. After the changes we have made, they will be able to pass at the age of 65. A similar situation applies to women who will be able to retire at the age of 60. So this is a return to earlier solutions in this area. This was the subject of the declaration made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the exposé, and it was also in line with the government's position towards the draft law. At the same time, the principle has been left that, in the case of agricultural activities carried out by a pensioner or an agricultural pensioner, together with a spouse who is not yet a pensioner, the right to full retirement is not suspended, so that right is maintained for those farmers. So, indeed, false information, if it is transmitted, should be straightened out. I hope that the PSL politicians mentioned by me acknowledge their earlier activities, the adoption of this law and the actual increase in the retirement age for farmers. I am talking about the party leader of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, I am talking about former Minister Mark Sawicki and the other 26 Members who voted in favour of this bill. Information on changes in the farmers' social security system and the reduction in retirement age and the possibility of transition at the age of 60 for women and 65 for men and about the operation of the new scheme from 1 January 2018 will be communicated to all farmers insured at the Social Insurance Fund in the first week of April in the form of a letter from the president of the cashier [[♪ The bell ♪]] together with information on the rules for the valorisation of benefits and the transfer of premiums for the second quarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u74	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mrs Teresa Nolas. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! At this point, I would like to thank you for your reply. The fact is that 31 December 2017 is the end date for early retirement in agriculture, but this is due to the introduction by the previous coalition of 11 March 2012, as you have already said. Because we are faced with completely false accusations of representatives of the Polish People's Party who accuse us of telling us and using their rhetoric that it was the current government coalition that wiped out early pensions for farmers, which is not true, and the charge should be subject to legal assessment of the relevant institutions, once again I will allow myself [[♪ The bell ♪]] to raise such a question in this context, because these are false allegations. I understand that every political option has the right to conduct its political rhetoric, but it should be true, because it is not true that the coalition governing Law and Justice has eliminated early retirement. That's from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u76	Thank you, Member. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already said, we will carry out an information campaign among farmers in this area. When it comes to repeated lies, as you say, about increasing the retirement age, we will examine this. If they influence the Ministry with this type of information about public appearances, about the transfer of materials to the public through specific individuals, we will analyse how much intervention is needed here, also in legal terms, and how much it is necessary to oppose such information. On the other hand, I hope that Members, of whom the vast majority are still Members of the Polish Sejm, have at least a bit of honour - I am talking about PSL Members - and admit to how they voted in 2012 for raising the retirement age for farmers. May I remind you of the list of those who voted in favour of raising the retirement age to 67 for both women farmers and men farmers. They were MEPs: Edmund Borawski, Krzysztof Borkowski, Jan Bury, Marek Gos, Jarosław Górczyński, Eugeniusz Grzeszczak, Stanisław Kalemba, Mieczysław Kasprzak, Jan Łopata, Mieczysław Łuczak, Mirosław Maliszewski, Krystyna Ozga, Mirosław Pawlak, Waldemar Pawlak, Janusz Piechociński, Józef Racki, Marek Sawicki, Henryk Smolarz, Zbigniew Sosnowski, Franciszek Stefaniuk, Andrzej Sztorc, Genowefa Tokarska, Piotr Walkowski, Zbigniew Włodkowski, Piotr Zgorzelski, Józef Zych and Stanisław Żelichowski. If they're having second thoughts, they can check their vote back then. I hope that at least these Members do not inform and mislead farmers in this respect, who have decided to increase the retirement age for farmers and who has treated farmers in such a way that they have been ordered to work from 2018 to 67 years of age. This would be a huge social problem, especially since it affects both men, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as women, but mostly rural women who would have to work seven years longer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u78	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Paweł Olszewski and Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform, raise a question about the proceedings conducted in connection with the contract of PKP SA with Sensus Group to the Minister of Justice. Deputy Attorney General Krzysztof Sierak is responsible. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Olszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. District Attorney! Last year, I sent an interpellation to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction on this unfortunate contract for the protection of the stations during the World Youth Days, which was commissioned by such an enigmatic company in principle to the Sensus Group pole. At the time I pointed out numerous doubts about this order, the lack of preparation of this company, certain personal links which could indicate that this company received this order not because of the qualifications and experience which it naturally and clearly did not have, but because of the personal links. Today we know that these personal links go far beyond what we knew at the time, there are people from a close circle of law and justice, members of a parliamentary club, co-workers of parliamentarians and serious politicians of this party. At that time, the Minister of Infrastructure, answering this question, to this interpellation, made it clear that everything was carried out in accordance with the law, all standards and procedures were preserved. I have a question for you, Mr. D.A. At what stage is this investigation today? That's one thing. Secondly, what is the circle of people appearing on this issue, with particular emphasis on government officials, as well as on those who were politically involved in the work, for example, at the Law and Justice Club?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u80	Thank you. And your prosecutor, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer the questions of the Member, I would like to present the information of the Prosecutor-General concerning the conduct of the preparatory proceedings on the mismanagement and fraud to the detriment of the Polish State Railways SA. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that this proceeding is ongoing, I would like to say that I am forced to keep my investigation confidential and to provide you with only general information and facts from the ongoing proceedings, information which will in no way impede or affect the content of the actions planned by the prosecutors in the course of the investigation. I would like to stress here that the effects of this investigation in the form of a statement of objections are the result of intense prosecution of prosecutors and officers of the Central Anti-corruption Office. High Izbo! I kindly state that this investigation is conducted by the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw. PO III Ds. 123.2016. This investigation was initiated on 10 August 2016 in the case of a mismanagement offence under Article. § 296 § 1 of the Criminal Code. The basis for the initiation was evidence in the form of statements by one of the members of the Management Board of the Polish State Railways SA, who submitted a notice of suspicion of the offence, and evidence in the form of documentation collected during the control activities carried out by CBA officers. This investigation concerns an agreement concluded on 6 May 2016 between PKP and Sensus Group, including the implementation of preventive measures in the area of railway stations in the area of bombing threats during the World Youth Days. During the proceedings a number of procedural actions were carried out, hearings were held on a number of sources of evidence, in particular persons who participated in the implementation of the contract, employees and PKP officers and officers responsible for security and anti-terrorist prevention. Extensive documentation on the conclusion and implementation of the contract has also been collected. On 1 March 2017, the District Attorney in Warsaw issued a decision on the statement of objections to nine persons based on such evidence. On 2 March 2017, five suspects, i.e. representatives of Sensus Group and employees of the PKP Security Bureau, Krzysztof K., Marcin B., Robert T. were accused of committing an offence of fraud in Article. § 296 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 294 § 1 of the Criminal Code, the charge of committing a crime of fraud consisting of misleading members of the Board of Polish Railways in Warsaw as to the necessity, validity and purpose of concluding the contract described above and misleading as to the fact that Sensus Group had the means and capabilities to carry out the tasks covered by the contract, while, as the investigation proves, it did not have such capabilities and means, which the suspects led the Polish State Railways to a negative regulation by property in large sizes. In the face of these five suspects, the prosecutor has taken preventive measures in the form of police supervision, financial guarantees and a ban on leaving the country. On 3 March 2017, members of the Management Board of PKP were announced to Mirosław P., Cecilia L., Mark M. and Michałów B. of the allegations of committing a mismanagement crime from the article. § 296 § 4 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. § 296 § 3 of the Criminal Code, the charge of committing a criminal offence involving failure to comply with obligations relating to the care of the company's assets by failing to take action aimed at, inter alia, verification of the economic validity of the conclusion of the contested contract, resulting in a loss of 1,900 thousand. zł. High Izbo! In view of the well-being of the investigation, I will not disclose the statements and explanations made here by suspects, as the prosecution and CBA officers are still working on their peer review and verification of all the evidence. In answer to two specific questions put here by your Member, I kindly inform you that no accusations have been brought against the representatives of the government administration in the course of this investigation. In addition, I would like to inform you that the evidence that has been carried out so far does not indicate that there is a link between the law and justice parties and the management of the Sensus Group. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress here strongly that for the prosecutor the function or name of the suspect, as well as belonging to any social organisation, has no and cannot have any meaning. Whenever there is a justification for a suspicion of a crime, it is the duty of the prosecutor to initiate proceedings in this case and to clarify whether the offence actually occurred, to clarify all the circumstances of the offence and to determine all the persons involved. I can assure you and reassure you that, in this case, the prosecution will also be primal and, regardless of who this is concerned, will explain all the circumstances under investigation and will lead to liability by all persons who have committed criminal acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Arkadius Myrch's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u83	Thank you, Mr. District Attorney, for these quite laconic explanations after all, because, in fact, beyond what's generally available in the media, we haven't learned much more. In this respect, I regret that your five-minute speech was nevertheless quite poor in terms of content. Therefore, I would like to ask, because you did not mention this, and in our opinion the prosecution should also examine the threads, whether Sensus Group, outside the company PKP, has yet to conclude any other contracts for the provision of such services or similar with other companies of the Treasury, and even if not with companies of the State Treasury, with local companies. Does the D.A.'s office even start this story, and did she take the test? Second thing. The twin situation is in the company of PKP Hutnicza Wierkotorowa. There, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the case of the conclusion by this company of a contract for nearly PLN 2 million in the implementation of the information security management system, in the field of services which in fact PKP LHS the year before...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u84	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u85	...a year before such services, such implementation was carried out. Is this thread being investigated by the D.A.'s office as well? Are these connected cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u87	Let me just finish by saying that this was the subject of one of the interpellations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u88	I would ask you to respond to Mr Krzysztof Sierak's deputy attorney general.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, the D.A.'s office is investigating all the issues. As I said, I am bound here by the mystery of the investigation, and I would not like to reveal all the threads, as well as the circumstances that have been investigated as a result of this investigation for more than six months. I find it difficult for me here, as regards question two, to answer whether such a thread is being implemented. If I could ask you in writing for a question to the D.A.'s office, I'm sure we can answer that. As far as the first question is concerned, I will hide myself from the good of my conduct. Surely, I assure you, all the threads and all the circumstances that arise as a result of this investigation are being investigated. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u90	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question formulated by Iwona Michalek, Jack Kurzepa and Joanna Borowiak from Law and Justice. The question concerns the introduction of the Single Anti-Plagic System to universities and is addressed to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Minister Piotr Dardziński will answer. I ask you to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u91	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Last year the Sejm decided that there would be one nationwide anti-Plagiarism system, which will ensure that the works collected in the repository are compared. Universities will be required to check their work and enter the repository from 2018. According to the applicable legislation, universities will be required to check their diploma work before defending them in the anti-plagiarism program and to place them in this national collection. This will allow you to compare student work and detect plagiarism even after many years. The Single Anti-Plagiarism System is to be established. It is to be created in non-competition mode by the research institute and costs PLN 14 million. I wanted to ask the Minister how advanced it is to work on its implementation, whether there is any danger that it will not enter into force, will not start working since 2018 and what it looks like to work with universities in connection with its implementation. This is the first part of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u92	Thank you, Member. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Indeed, work is underway on the preparation of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. These works are carried out according to the agreed timetable. Its main elements... If you would allow me, I would make a brief reference. The first deadline is October 2017. This is the moment when the contest for the algorithm will be concluded, which will support this program. What is very important, the competition will be announced in the spring, in the next 2 months, and this competition may be attended by companies already existing on the market who are involved in this type of software, but can also enter, actually it is an open competition, also start-ups, i.e. entrepreneurs who are just launching their projects, and even students who are skilled in coding and programming. So it's an open competition, and we really cared about this element of the project, too. In October, the winner of this competition will be selected. The competition is multi-stage. Another element will be the integration of the NEKST system from August 2017 to June 2018. This is a system that - you could say - is a mirror of the Polish Internet. The Institute of the Basic Information Technology of the Polish Academy of Sciences has built a database that collects data from the Polish Internet. The algorithm plus the data collected in this system will create in the future a mechanism by which we will be able to effectively check whether the work is plagiarized or not. IV quarter 2018 - we will already introduce pilot versions at universities. This will most likely be the beginning of the academic year. Based on the work of the previous academic year, i.e. 2017/2018, we will already evaluate, check whether this system works, i.e. on the one hand whether the algorithm is working, and on the other hand whether the database we build is working, consisting of online resources and resources collected in the nationwide repository of diploma works. The first quarter of 2018 is the integration of this system with university systems, so that in the third quarter of 2018 the system is actually ready, and it is necessary to be aware that the first work, already in this mode, which is provided for by the law, i.e. requiring verification of the work before the defence, will appear at the earliest after the first semester of the academic year 2018/2019, i.e. we can expect them, let's say, in February, March 2019. So the system should be about six months before it's ready to function properly. As I said before, it will be tested, it will be evaluated. On the other hand, on the question of how to work with universities in connection with its introduction, 65 universities were consulted in the first week of March. In fact, we are now at the stage of building such a very accurate database and encouraging universities to identify each university, public and private, a proxy or contact person who will be involved in implementing such a system at this university, because we do not think that this communication has been very satisfactory so far. 65 universities are a large number, but we need to be aware that there are over 400 universities at all. But this is the beginning of a trial. We still have time to step up this cooperation. On the other hand, all changes that are made and the programming of the whole process itself are consulted with stakeholders' environments. At the Ministry, a working group of stakeholders in the Single Anti-Plagiarism System was set up, where both university representatives and business representatives and representatives of the entity implementing this project, the Information Processing Centre, are represented. So this cooperation is good, and it will become more intense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u94	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thanks, Minister, for these very specific indications regarding the implementation of the Single Anti-Plagic System, but I would like to clarify this in two areas. The first question is whether universities will work on their existing anti-plagiarism programmes during this implementation period. If so, I understand that even when we are implementing the new single system, these programmes that they have at the moment will be absorbed or obscured by the new anti-Plagiarism system. And that's one thing. The second point concerns the subtleties involved in the development of such a programme. We academics realize that the indicators of quotes, references have always been a problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] interpretation. In view of the above, will this external entity or the entity generated by the Ministry be the operator of this programme? That's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u96	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Piotr Dardziński to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for the questions. I will start by asking in order what the system will look like after the introduction of the Single Anti-Plagic System. According to the legal state, the university will be required to check work in the anti-plagiarism system. There is no question whether it is an anti-Plagiarism system, which will be the Single Anti-Plagiarism System, or whether it will be a properly effective anti-Plagiarism system, which will be provided by the university itself or by an external entity, i.e. purchased from an operator who has such a license or such software. In our view, the most likely and recommended solution would be that all universities benefit from the Single Anti-Plagic System - as its name suggests - it is uniform, i.e. it should include all - but we leave freedom to universities. On the other hand, a fundamental incentive is that the system prepared by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education will be a free system. So even if the university itself develops such an anti-Plagiarism system, it is related to the maintenance of staff, software, hardware, as if with all service and it simply costs. If it buys a licence from an entity that is an economic operator, it also costs. So the principle of rationality, the effective use of resources, whether private or public, says that if there is a system that is free of charge, it should be used. Freeness, however, is not the greatest advantage of this system. Its greatest advantage is this, and here I go to answer the second question, that it is being prepared by a scientific institute, which falls under the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, i.e. the Information Processing Centre, and this unit is already carrying out dozens of projects related to computerization in the field of science and higher education and is responsible for collecting data for the payment of a statutory grant. By the way: for the first time this year, the payment of the statutory grant was prepared automatically, excluding data collected by paper. This unit creates a POL-on base, a base where we have information about both students and academics. This unit also supports databases related to Polish bibliography. So actually in this unit there is the most extensive resource of information and at the same time the most far-reaching experience in how to collect, store and process this type of data. And I think this is a huge competitive advantage and the OPI is able to compete with any economic operator. I'm sure he'll be a very good player in this competition. Plus, it's an individual. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is supervised by the Ministry, so all projects are implemented much more efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question was prepared by Barbara Dziuk, Jolanta Szczypińska, Joanna Kopcińska, Barbara Bartus and Anna Czech from Law and Justice. It concerns the new law on the hospital network, in particular whether the introduction of it secures patients according to the established map of needs. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Piotr Gryza. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry of Health is currently working on a project for a network of hospitals, looking to repair financing for health care. Difficult talks are underway with experts, hospital and politician directors to finally regulate the system that has been waiting for years to be organized in order to take care of the patient. Unfortunately, the predecessors have done nothing, even caused the current problems that patients have been paying for for years in queues. Unnecessary confusion in the reform of health services, which we receive in the media Platform and PSL, is intended to create an atmosphere of uncertainty and fear about our own health and our loved ones. Meanwhile, data from the Ministry of Health regarding health subsidies contradict panic and artificially caused confusion. That's where the questions come from. Will all citizens be covered as part of the healthcare reform? Will there be a structured organizational division of hospitals according to the scheme and classification into specialist? And another question, very important in the reform. What brings together hospitals? Is it true that more branches will be combined and this will lead to greater funding for these units? I also have my attention on the hospital budget. Will this budget be smaller or larger after the reform? What will the post-reform funding look like at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] About the hospital network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u100	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister I'm biting to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u101	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the questions asked by the Member, I would like to inform you of the following. The planned system to secure benefits in the hospital sector is largely a response to the conclusions of health maps. The documents describing the health needs map indicate that there are branches in which a significant proportion of the benefits shown, sometimes even more than 90%, can be reported in general surgery or internal diseases, and that these branches have a long waiting period for the patient to be admitted to the benefit. Therefore, it is necessary - this is the proposal from the maps - to increase flexibility in the management of funds at the level of the provider, allowing for the transfer of funds between ranges. It should also be possible to manage resources flexibly between outpatient specialist care and hospital care. The important information is that when analysing the profiles which are indicated by the regulation of the Minister of Health, which refers to the inclusion of branches, the conclusions of health needs maps have been taken into account. It must also be said that the security system does not cover all the financing of the scheme, but is only a significant part and the branch director on the basis of a comparison of the health care plan, including the conclusions of health needs maps, conducts additional benefits contests which are not properly implemented under the scheme. On the other hand, with regard to the questions that you have asked directly, the draft law provides for some facilitation in connection with the merger of hospital entities, because there is an additional clause that creates an opportunity. If the entity, before the date of the qualification, which is before 27 June, and precisely before 20 June, will submit the act of merger to the director of the branch of the voivodship, then by 20 September this year. this act will be confirmed by a real connection, i.e. a discharge from the register of medical operators, so-called. register of voivodships, then the director of the voivodship branch takes this file into account and takes the selection decision taking into account the connected entities. Hospital services from the position of Minister of Health seem appropriate because they increase the potential of the hospital, increase the possibility of providing services in a comprehensive and continuous manner, and allow for some optimisation of the hospital base. We have some important information flowing from individual voivodships, where connections are planned. These links should significantly increase the efficiency and efficiency of hospitals and in general the provision of hospital services. As far as funding is concerned, we will use the appropriate legal instruments provided for in the Act here, and the financial plan will be made using those funds at the disposal of the National Health Fund, adjusted in such a way that, at the time of the establishment of the system of safeguards, the funds allocated to the financing of hospital care benefits are adequate to the needs. Moreover, according to the current financial plan of the National Health Fund for hospital treatment, the level of funding for hospital treatment is higher than the corresponding plan in 2016. I hope that the information provided is sufficient and responds to the questions of the Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u102	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking Mrs. Barbara Bartus to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u103	Thank you, Marshal. The Hospital Network Act, together with its commitment to comprehensive care of patients, will enter into force from October this year. Minister, after the changes, will the patient who will be taken care of in Level II facility also have the right, if necessary, to transport to such a hospital, even though another hospital will be located closer to the place of residence? At the moment, an ambulance brings a patient to the nearest hospital and drives away.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u104	One more question for the Minister. When will the first adjustment of the contracts take place? Will it take into account not only the number of benefits provided but also the complexity of the treatment, taking into account multi-morbidity, multiple trauma? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u105	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Piotr Gryza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! The questions that have been asked here, to be honest, do not concern the matter of the Law on the Security System, which we are investigating, because the valuation of benefits is related to continuous work both basketwork and work related to continuous updating and taking into account the reality of point valuation and evaluation of group of benefits in general. So the matter directly related to this question lies within the competence of the President of the National Health Fund and I can assure you that this is ongoing. Moreover, this is also linked to the fact that the important element of the system we want to introduce is the joint settlement within the part of the flat-rate security system between hospital treatment and outpatient treatment. At the moment, hospital treatment is different, refers to another basis, outpatient treatment is also different, refers to another basis. In order to implement this proposal, which results from the statutory provisions and from the provisions in the draft relevant regulations, these two bases need to be compiled together and referred to a single basis, and the National Health Fund is currently preparing to make these two reference points coherent as soon as possible. In addition, intensive work is still underway to update the valuation of hospital services in order to realise diagnostic activities and create opportunities to make greater use of outpatient specialist care, and not necessarily to exploit the hospital potential itself. These are certain assumptions and work that are ongoing at the moment, and they should have had some intended effect since the introduction of this regulation. As far as getting a patient to a hospital is concerned, as I mentioned at the beginning, it's a different regulation. This security regulation does not apply to this area. This provision does not come into this dimension, it is subject to a different regulation, a certain practical regulation. We are thinking about this solution and we will take appropriate steps here, and listening also to voices. Member of the Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u107	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Now I'm gonna have to adjourn for an hour. 12 because Minister Konrad Szymański was unable to arrive on time. So that time-out. 12. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 27 hours 11 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of Polish foreign policy towards the European Union, the strategy for the integration of the Republic of Poland into the euro area and the fulfilment of the obligations resulting from the ratification of the Athens Treaty, which was requested by the Modern Posel Club, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Richard Petru.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point, there is a debate in Europe about a few speeds. Politically, at this point, we are already on the tail of Europe. We offer liberum veto, we resent others. As a Polish government, we are unfortunately proposing to relax the EU's ties, breaking European solidarity. I'm talking about breaking, but of course I'm talking about the PIS government. At this point, we are trying to negotiate individually with the United Kingdom the conditions for leaving the European Union, while the finding was that only the European Union can negotiate. The Europe of a few speeds is the worst news for us. This means that Poland, as a result of the current policy pursued by the PiS government, falls out of the mainstream. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been a debate on the Union of several speeds in the Union for a long time. There is also a debate that this first speed should only be the euro area with a separate budget, which would at the moment only be available to the countries that are in the euro area. Let us note that once the United Kingdom comes out of the European Union, the income of the euro area countries and the two countries that have a rigid course, namely Sweden and Denmark, is 92% the revenue of the Union as a whole. In other words, Poland, remaining outside the euro area, will be 8%. Today, the Prime Minister declared in the media that she might not sign the declaration at the summit in Rome. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this is an informal summit, and therefore no one is waiting for some far-reaching declarations from our Prime Minister. Secondly, I have a question about what we want to get in this way. This declaration is about whether Europe is strong after 60 years, whether it wants to continue to integrate or whether it wants to work together. As I understand it, the Polish idea is to spoil the atmosphere once again. The question to the government is this: Is going to the next summit with a signal that we want to hold this summit, challenge it, not sign it, this is our way of practicing foreign policy? Are we gonna be offended every time? What do we want in this way? To be ridiculed in Europe, not respected? Is this some more sublime tactic of our government? Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply a policy of getting out of the Union to play the game and to mark your anti-Europeanity. This is how it is seen in the world and unfortunately it is also seen in Poland. This is an idea for further isolation of Poland in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the same was true of the United Kingdom. At first, the Union was mocked in the UK, discouraged from the euro, mocked the EU institutions, talked about the Union either badly or very badly. And the referendum ended with a known result. Great Britain is now leaving the Union. PiS, the PiS government is replicating exactly the same scenario that led the United Kingdom to leave the Union at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, this Roman declaration will be very general. And there's the question whether we're in Europe or not. The signal that the Polish government may not want to sign it is actually a signal that in Europe we do not want to be that the Polish government does not want to be. And now I would like to ask you specifically about the euro area. The adoption of the euro is our strategic interest, not only in economic terms but also in political terms. Let me remind you that this is also the result of the referendum held on 7 and 8 June. By agreeing to ratify the Treaty, we also agreed to accept the euro as our currency. The consent of citizens to join the Union of Poland was also linked to the commitment to adopt the euro at a time when the country, i.e. Poland, will meet the conditions of convergence. In 2016, we fulfilled all the convergence conditions except for the currency criterion, which is fulfilled at the time when ERM II is entered. Meeting the convergence criteria but also entering the euro area will bring very concrete benefits for Poland. Firstly, the recovery of trade, the reduction of transaction costs, the elimination of currency risks, the strengthening of competition. Let me remind you that most of Polish trade is with the euro area. Now it will be almost exclusively the euro area. This results in higher economic growth and higher wages for Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, the political arguments I was talking about come to this. The euro area will probably be a new budget and EU funds will not go to countries outside the euro area. The question is whether it is an idea to implement the actions of the Polish government. This also increases our security policy, i.e. The country that is in euro is more politically secure because it has specific interests with the European Union. But I'd like to ask... We request that you provide information by the Prime Minister of the Government of PiS on the state of Polish foreign policy towards the European Union, the strategy for integration of the Republic of Poland into the euro area and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the ratification of the Athens Treaty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that several times a day the government representatives with the Prime Minister, who today had very important speeches on European issues, have repeated a very simple story, postulates and expectations, which are completely understood in every capital of the European Union, are not understood only by the opposition in Poland. It is surprising to me that we speak the same language and either pretend or actually do not understand what our intentions are. I'll say it again. I'll try to repeat it slowly. Our intentions regarding the Roman declaration, which in fact condition accession, are a condition for the signature of the Polish Prime Minister under this declaration, are obvious. We want this declaration not to open the way for division in the European Union, in line with the intentions expressed in this House by many Members, so that the European Union does not fall into divisions so that the European Union does not pursue its own weakening, so that scenarios, suggestions rather than scenarios, are very vague stories, so that suggestions for division do not change into a political plan for Europe to remain strong. We want the social agenda in the European Union not to be an excuse to close the common market, in particular in terms of services and work for Polish and Central European workers, service providers who today simply win this competition. We want the defence policy provisions to make it clear that the new European identity in defence policy, the strengthening of the European Union's role in defence policy, is not created at the expense of NATO or even alongside NATO, so that it is created together with NATO, which remains the main backbone of Western defence policy, including Europe. Finally, we want to make it clear that if we are thinking about restoring the European Union to Europeans today, this road runs through national parliaments. There's no other way, no better instrument, no better scenario, there's just no other way. I have carefully read not only what you are talking about, but also your request. The proposal states that we have an obligation to join the euro area, but what is more important is what you say about the strictly political aspects of this idea to do so very quickly and unconditionally. We hear suggestions that this determines real membership, as if our membership today without being in the euro area is not real membership. We hear that this gives us fairly indeterminate political security, that using the single currency gives us political security. In this proposal, in particular in its explanatory memorandum, there is a belief that Poland should as soon as possible, disregarding and disregarding the economic account, join the euro area in the name of undefined political status. Both parts of this conclusion are completely false. Firstly, joining the euro area, i.e. abandoning its own monetary policy, is only possible if the economic account clearly justifies this. Given the crisis in the euro area - I will mention that euro area countries have lower economic growth than non-euro area countries - given the unclear future of this project in the coming years, because it is simply dangerous to propose such a scenario today due to the vague political benefits of the euro area crisis, given the internal contradictions of the euro area. But it's worse. The second part of this conclusion, which suggests that the euro area will soon become a place of hyperintegration, that in a moment the countries that do not use the euro will remain on the side of some sudden integration leap, is equally far removed from political circumstances. Today, the euro area is experiencing huge internal contradictions, which are composed of countries with a budgetary surplus, and countries which have lost their ability to handle their own debt in a permanent manner. So what is the political content of this potential, supposedly very easy, obvious and rapid hyperintegration? It is said that economic shortcomings are to be offset by these political considerations. The whole narrative of this sudden integration of the euro area makes one sense. She's out of economic sense, she's out of political sense, of course, but she makes one deep sense. Its purpose is to create a huge sense of uncertainty and fear, at least in part of Europe, in order to restore the sub-ordination and obedience of the political class, particularly in Central Europe, to several other countries. [[Oh, Jesus.]] I understand this operation. I am surprised that the opposition in Poland gives so easily... [[That's right.]] ...subordinate with this phantom fear. I can assure you that the government will conduct a cool analysis of the economic and political interests of the country and will keep cold blood, and I can assure you that if you ever want to come out of this sense of uncertainty, fear and this process of subordinating against this alleged threat, which is around the corner, we will be happy to help you. [[Applause]] [[That's it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u111	Thank you, Minister. Please respond to Mr Leszek Skiba's Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if you're wondering why sometimes seemingly rational people behave irrationally, e.g. It happens that decisions are made to buy a completely impractical, but luxurious car just to show off to others, one can say to do something for the show. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Misiewicz.]] [[Voices from the hall: Misiewicz!]] And that is the story of Poland's hasty adoption of the European currency. The most important problem with the adoption of the euro, the European currency, the resignation of the Polish gold, is that there is absolutely no economic argument to do so now. Because what's the problem? I mean, this diagnosis has been built for many years. This diagnosis is described in the working documents of the Ministry of Finance, for several years, also as regards the reports of the National Bank of Poland. The main problem of the euro area is the incompleteness of architecture, i.e. if we want to join the euro area today, we do not really know what this euro area will look like, what architecture will be like, whether there will be a common budget that we are discussing, what will be the final shape of the banking union, what will be the instruments to combat the so-called. Asymmetric shocks, such as the scale of integration, such as policies to combat unemployment. We don't really know what it's gonna look like. Convincing that right now, today we should quickly adopt the euro, means that we buy a cat in a bag because we tell Poles: take the euro, but you don't really know what it will look like next year, in 2, 3 years, because this process is unfinished. There's no point in coming in. today to the euro area, because we do not know what this euro area will look like, and we do not know whether it is beneficial or unfavorable. We can't say. There's really no economic argument. Here is what we know today: the structure of the Polish economy is that the adoption of the euro by Poland would be economically unfavourable. This is the most important argument - because, as I understand it, Mr Petru drew attention to the economic arguments. But let us take, for example, the arguments of the Polish Economist Society, a former member of the Monetary Policy Council of Professor Andrzej Rzońca. What does he pay attention to? Very often it points out that we have a problem with too low interest rates. Very often he argued that the policy of the National Bank of Poland in Poland is dangerous as regards the allocation of resources, investment decisions of companies, the risk of speculative bubbles in Poland, and that interest rates in Poland are too low. And what do you propose to President Petru, Mr Rzonca? Let's go into the euro area, where the natural rates, the interest rate is lower than in Poland, so let's make the threats he's talking about... I do not know exactly whether they are true, but in any case he draws attention to these risks, draws attention to the risk of too low interest rates, which will permanently be lower than the interest rate in Poland. There's a lot of research that shows. The interest rate, the natural interest rate on the euro area, is lower than in Poland. So why adopt, for the Polish economy, the risk of non-optimal allocations, the emergence of speculative bubbles, for example, in different places, of an unoptimal allocation of resources? This is what is the result of the suboptimal allocation of resources. The problem will consequently mean that economic growth in Poland will be lower, wage dynamics will be lower. As a result, this wrong decision, which is proposed by the Members of the Platform, sorry, Modern, will cause that it will actually be detrimental to the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u113	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? Good. You're welcome. Then I close the list of speakers. And now here's the situation. We have 60 minutes, and 45 Members have come forward. Therefore, I propose that you reduce the time to 1.5 minutes in compliance with this. [[Mr. Marshal, three of the Platform are gone.]] Okay, I understand you don't agree for one and a half minutes, right? 'Cause that means a couple of people just won't speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Make it two minutes.]] Will Mr Nitras agree to one and a half minutes or not? [[We agree.]] [[To ask your marshal to take into account the fact that not all of them... are committees...]] Good. We're staying at two minutes, and at most a couple of people aren't gonna make it... I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Izabela Kloc, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome and I think this is a good opportunity to talk about the European Union and the future of the European Union. 60 years ago, several countries signed treaties, later joined another union - united, sovereign states, but countries. Today we know that the Union is in crisis, starting with financial crisis: migration, institutional decision-making. And that's what Brexit comes to, and that's what separatist movements, deparlamentarisation, of course, terrorism. One can say this: when we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the European Union 10 years ago, the Union was indeed a very good player on a global scale. Today we are talking about the Union of two speeds, many speeds. This, unfortunately, weakens the European Union in these global relations. I would very much like the Minister to tell us what is the recipe - also the recipe of Poland, the recipe of our government - for the Union to survive one but better, according to this declaration of the Visegrad Group recently adopted in Poland. I just wanted to say that last week we were with Marshal Karczewski at the parliamentary summit of Rome. We have heard many voices there and I confirm what the Minister said - there is indeed a great variety among countries. I would even say that more votes were in favour of the Union being one. Finally, I will only quote the words of your guru who just appeared in Rome and said that the illusion is that the common market, the currency, the lack of boundaries are values. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In itself. The value is unity. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's what Timmermans said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u115	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u116	Thank you, Marshal. We don't have a guru, ma'am, we're not political followers. [[Or anointed ones.]] The Minister spoke of an important speech by the Prime Minister. I don't know what it is. Tonight. Or the TV show? Because if it was television in the morning, it actually had its weight in the sense that it said things that everyone listened to, but they listened with big, open eyes. As can be said on the eve of the European Council, after such a spectacular defeat as the one that took place in Brussels, we will not sign another document. Or that he will again oppose - again 27 to 1 - and at the same time talk about unity as the first postulate? This country is a problem for the unity of the Union. You're the country that's blowing up the Union. This is a country you don't want to talk to normally. The European Union was created so that countries would not wage war so that they could talk to each other at this table, where 28 prime ministers - and everyone has respect - sit down and make decisions in a certain atmosphere of dialogue. You destroy this country, you're like Le Pen, and you're like Wilders, you're just running a big country, and that's the problem. You are calling for a greater role for national parliaments. Minister, what are you talking about? When did the Prime Minister take part in this Parliament, with the participation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the serious European debate we are demanding? On Fridays, you report after the vote when everyone's gone home. I have not heard a serious word in the European debate by the Prime Minister from this speaker - I listen to some of the dialimals spoken in Brussels or on TV - she has never had the opportunity and the desire to hear what the Members say and what the Polish Sejm says. You're talking about NATO being a skeleton. He's supposed to be a bonehead, but look what you're doing in NATO. We have Macierewicz's face in NATO. Who weakens NATO's position, us? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You are talking about the euro that the euro is not a security component. Pribaltika, Slovakia - these are the countries that have adopted the euro for political reasons. And that's an essential element. And please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] do not call for lower economic growth, because lower economic growth in the euro area or in our country is due to developmental differences, Minister. I don't have any more time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u117	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u118	...but I hope that my colleagues will say other things that we would like you to hear in this debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u119	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u120	Thank you very much. It is obvious that in the Polish state of affairs it is a good and well represented country of the European Union and being in the European Union is a value in itself. Only in the European Union properly prepared and conducted. Of course, the European Union now has a lot of problems, and we, as a large country, must participate in the reform of the European Union. As far as I'm concerned, everyone's gonna agree. We probably have different ideas for this reform and its directions, but one thing that is missing from the current government is effectiveness in the implementation of its intentions or plans. This is the most serious charge, because it cannot be that the Polish state is basically just tumbling its foot, and nothing else results from it because there are no results. Because this is not just about us screaming out loud, but about us being effective in implementing those, otherwise legitimate, demands that we simply hear the voice of Poland so that we are safer in the European Union. I don't think there's any doubt about that. Everyone agrees to that. It's about effectiveness. But we are talking about the euro area, so I would like to say a few words about the euro area. I can't imagine Poland entering the euro area in a situation where a common monetary policy - I think it's a master of economics - doesn't have a chance of achieving effectively in a situation of different economic levels. And this has shown the situation in the southern countries. What happened to Greece? What happened to the Italians? What happened to all those countries that had a lower level of development than large countries, such as Germany or France? It ended badly. In a situation where President Petru urges us to enter this club... There is absolutely no economic basis for us to have at least a little bit of money to enter a club where we will have absolutely nothing to say and we will have absolutely no developmental opportunities. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u122	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I address Minister Szymanski. Once again, we ask for a debate on the foreign policy of the PiS government within the European Union. Again. And once again, we're not really getting any information. The Member of the governing party herself asked the question of what is the recipe of the Polish government for crises that appear in the European Union. This is because I think the whole society - all of it, I'm not just talking about us here in the Seym anymore, the whole society is absolutely confused. That's not what you're saying, that's not what you're doing, that's not what you're saying, and what the PiS government's really doing is going in one direction -- we all know what it is. I also have such a question for the Minister about yesterday's visit to President Kaczyński in the UK. What was the purpose of this visit? Was the purpose of this visit to negotiate and safeguard the rights of our citizens? Because if he did, if the president thought he'd negotiate better on his own... If Poland itself is to negotiate - and it is not Poland to negotiate - and it believes that it will do it better than the EU institutions, it points to a very low level of trust in the EU institutions, and this is also a clear signal, and secondly contradicts what you want to put - as you propose - in Roman declarations, that is, unity of the Union. There's one thing you can't offer, and it's something else you can do. And that's how you act. So once again, Minister, I'm asking you for specific plans, for clear information on what policy is to be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS within the European Union for the coming time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u123	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There's one thing I'd like to ask you. So far, thanks to good negotiators, a fair approach to our membership of the European Union, we have managed to negotiate good conditions for our agriculture. Poland is at the forefront of the countries in terms of access to European funds for agriculture, and globally too. At the moment, concerns are already beginning, for example, because not all farmers have yet received the funds due to them for the past year, but the state has spoken about the double increase in agricultural subsidies and it was such a hit in the election campaign. I would like to ask you whether you have taken any action at all, any discussions in this area. Are you looking for any allies to help us get these extra resources? Because twice as much is a lot of money. Are you even talking right now, or are you going to try to increase this money in the next perspective? Because farmers often ask what will happen to these promises, if they really have a chance to be fulfilled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! And especially, Minister Szymański! I must admit that I have repeatedly disagreed with you in my joint mandate for 10 years, but I have always had great respect for your argument, your competence and the way you speak about the European Union. Which is why, to tell you the truth, I'm disappointed in you today, and I'm even going to say more shocked. Because in response to a very concrete and very serious question posed by the Modern Club, we have not so far heard an attempt to provide a rational answer, a rational explanation of the policy of the government in which you are sitting, towards the European Union, but in fact we have listened to the manifesto of the Eurosceptic who was watered to it, I will say, with such a sauce of national tromtadration. Minister, in response to a very serious question at a time which prompts all these questions, what is the Polish idea, the idea of the Polish government for the future of the European Union, to hear that - in a situation where there is a scenario for the division of the European Union into the Union of a few speeds or several circles of integration, and this is not an invention, it is not fear and it is not our demagogy, it is the writings in a white paper published by the European Commission, that is the result of debates which are being held either in the European Council or in the European Parliament - these questions are the result of the tendency of the Polish opposition to subordination, i.e. submission, acceptance of domination of some stronger countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have to tell you you have a problem. The majority of the Polish people feel the same way as the Polish opposition. You're the ones with the problem because you represent a minority that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u127	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u128	...to such a policy towards the European Union as you are pursuing, it simply does not agree. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u129	Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Petru today from this speaker shouted: ein Volk, ein Euro, calling for Poland to join the German economic area... [[You've always dreamed of saying that from the podium, haven't you? That's ridiculous.]] ...which the Germans definitely use. But let us start with the statistics of the European Commission. The European Commission is forecasting growth in Poland between 2017 and 2018 to be 3.4% And 3.2%. At the same time, the European Union as a whole will grow at 1.8% and 1.6% and the euro area will grow the slowest - 1.7% and 1.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, the euro is a German project designed for the development of the German economy. The European Union is not an optimal currency area. And as an economist, Mr Petru, you should know that. It is not an optimal currency area and therefore most of the German regions have developed faster in recent years than most of the French regions. This was recently even in the debate during the presidential elections in France. There is no situation in which the Germans pay unselfishly to a thing that simply does not pay them. They pay billions for the functioning of the euro area because it supports their exports. The problems of Greece, Italy, Spain and the southern countries are now being addressed by the euro area. You must know that. If you know this, the question is why you are pissing off the euro area to Poles, which is detrimental to most European countries, except the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u131	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Nitras made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u132	Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry, but this can't be left without any reaction. I do not wish that in the Polish Seym... [[Is this a break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u133	Is this a formal conclusion?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u134	Yes, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u135	Then please make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u136	Request for a break and to draw Mr Winnick's attention. In the Polish Sejm, from the speaker, a Member of the Polish Sejm uses some fascist songs to justify his thesis. This is outrageous, Mr. Marshal, and I expect you to respond. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u137	Good. Please, you have the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, please respond.]] No, I don't see the need for a break. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Report to the board of directors, that's all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u138	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you why the Polish government opposes Poland's entry into the euro area as soon as possible. I personally believe that this is a very reasonable approach. I would like to point out that the lack of independence in monetary policy can cost us a lot, and the lack of currency devaluation at different times of economic situation can cause a very serious problem for our exports. After all, our economy, our GDP is mainly based on exports. Let me express my personal opinion that, unfortunately, the euro area has a genetic defect. Redistribution at the level of the common budget in the European Union is 1.27%. In the United States, in the federal budget, that's 30%. American economists have long described that this could end very badly for weaker economies within such a single system. Mr Petru, that is the difference between us that you care about the good atmosphere, and we care about Polish interests, about the Polish state's right. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The only thing that matters to you is the good atmosphere. And stop lying to me about this speaker because you're accusing our government of anti-Europeanism. [[Yes, sir.]] The fact that we are making sure that the European Union goes in the right direction is not anti-European, that is the real concern for the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u139	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hands fall off. I really expect specific answers from you, because you say you want to pursue the Polish right state, but you can't do it, you stumble over your own legs all the time. I ask: Do you have the right to care for the Polish state's right as you define it? You have the right, but first you're wasting all your political capital on knocking Donald Tusk down when it's absolutely impossible and when this fight is doomed to failure. At the moment, you are talking about a declaration that is intended to celebrate the success of European integration, which all Poles enjoy. Do you know what you should be doing now, Minister? Sit in the back, just shake your fingers and wait for all your demands to be taken into account. You've been working on it, I hope, for months. And not right now, the Prime Minister will be putting an ultimatum on other Member States and saying that she will block, blackmail a few days before the summit. After all, all these very general demands of yours... We support the European Union's call for unity or serious treatment of national parliaments. This should be done, and I hope it's done. Then why the blackmail language, the ultimatum? Why are you lowering your credibility again? I don't get it at all. Everyone's listening to what you're saying here. Now about the euro issue. Nobody here in this room is talking about us adopting the euro tomorrow. Let's talk about specifics. [[How can you not?]] I have heard from Law and Justice, from Jarosław Kaczyński, that you do not accept the euro at all, so I ask: Do the Minister and the Polish Government maintain the commitment of the Polish Government from the accession treaty that you will accept the euro under conditions corresponding to Poland? Because only then, after such a declaration will you be able to effectively defend the Polish state and defend Europe from decay. So say, will you accept the euro? And then we'll discuss when, under what conditions. Because you guys say no all the time. And no wonder that this completely marginalizes you in the European Union. In the Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to keep your commitments up. And I want to hear: are you holding up your commitment or not? Simple. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u141	Thank you. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Skiba said that the euro is a decline in GDP. That's not true. The recipe for GDP decline is Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Government of Law and Justice. He's proven it for the past year. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are 13 years old in the European Union. It's been enough time to make a balance sheet. This balance was best done by Poles who express a clear positive opinion on the process of integration and our membership. At the same time, ironically, Poland has the most anti-EU government. You don't have to go to Novgorod... [[Mr President, examples, examples. No populism.]] ...not ask President Kaczyński, just go to entrepreneurs, ask students, come to a small community to find out what the moods are. [[You don't have to go to Madeira.]] In each municipality, it is very clear which European integration and Polish membership of the European Union have benefited. Meanwhile, the Polish government is alone. I agree with what has already been said here that every government is expected to implement its policies effectively. Meanwhile, Polish politics is lonely. [[Mr Marek Owl presents the photo]] Is this the face of the prime minister who is successful at the European summit? Minister! You were the main strategist there. Do you think this is the face of a happy woman who has achieved her goals? I'm talking about Prime Minister Szydło. We're alone. [[Let me see the picture.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Like the PiS government... [[This is the level.]] ...intending to pursue politics and seek... [[Manipulation.]] ...sociators to prepare another good European budget, from which we could draw from regional policy... [[Don't bother.]] ...other benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u143	Thank you. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Recent developments in the European Union, such as the outcome of the referendum and the decision of the British people on Brexit, the problems with migration policy, undoubtedly play a key role in shaping the future nature of the European Union. The Union needs reform, it needs change. In the face of new challenges, numerous scenarios are emerging, such as: A Union of many or two speeds. At a meeting in Versailles on 6 March this year. German Chancellor Angela Merkel was even more determined than Malta was in favour of a Europe of many speeds. A Europe of two or many speeds is an undesirable phenomenon for Poland. In fact, this would mean the exclusion or limitation of the rights of some Member States, which would definitely be contrary to the principles and values on which the European Union was founded. It certainly enjoys the strong position of the Polish government in this matter. Poland is and wants to be in the European Union. At the same time, the principle of equal treatment between all Member States is important for us. Minister! What are the expectations of the Polish government for the forthcoming jubilee summit in Rome? What action did the German Chancellor take on the declaration? And if we can stop these negative trends, among others. In cooperation with the Visegrad Group? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Traditionally, the weaknesses of the government of Beata Szydło are economics and diplomacy. Unfortunately, the government has confirmed this thesis in recent days, saying with one breath that Poland is against the Union at two speeds and at the same time that Poland will not enter the euro area unless the Polish GDP per capita is around 80% GDP per capita of Germany, which in the economy run by the PiS would have happened to a saint never. Such a view of the government is in fact a declaration about the removal of Poland from the European Union, because you are not able to stop the German economy, such a power is not the President of the PiS. [[Ma.]] The Civic Platform does not expect the government to accept the euro unconditionally. Minister, please don't lie to me from the Parliamentary Speaker. On the other hand, we expect you to fulfill what we have signed in the Accession Treaty. But you're not going to enter the euro area at all. You have removed the euro attorney, the Integration Office with the Euro Zone, the Convergence Office. However, meeting the Maastricht criteria, and certainly the deficit and debt criterion, is the best that could happen to the Polish economy. [[Yes, sir.]] A Minister for Finance [[Applause]] Mateusz Morawiecki what does he do? Increases the deficit, it will exceed 3% in 2018 and Poland is one of the biggest deficits in the European Union, and the public debt that you have raised such a large amount, [[Game in the O.R.]] You've increased by 2.5%. GDP. The Civic Platform did not do this in the year of the biggest crisis. You owe Poland the most in 10 years. That's why it's sad. Unfortunately, High Sejm, the government of Beata Szydło is a government that drives our economy away from a chance to fulfill it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] convergence criteria, distance Poland from the opportunity to catch up with the old Union and Poles - from the chance for quality of life comparable to German or French.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u147	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u148	And that will be settled by the Poles in the next election. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u149	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Europe faces many challenges and new challenges are constantly emerging. Therefore, Poland should maintain as close as possible relations with the Member States of the European Union. This will enable us to actively participate in the joint work and reach solutions that will take into account the interests of our country in the international arena. In the current state, this is significantly impeded by the very weak foreign policy of our government. The other countries do not take our vote into account, and we cannot take proper care of our interests. A fundamental change in foreign policy must be made and the role of our country must be strengthened, rather than constantly weakened. Recently, from this speaker, I have talked about the fact that we have only one ally in the European Union. And it was Hungary. But it's changed a little since then. As we all remember, even Viktor Orbán did not support Poland's proposal to vote against Poland for the position of head of the European Council. I'd like to remind you that 27:1 speaks for itself. This is just one example. I am just curious how you are going to work with the head of the European Council now. Signing a Roman declaration is another problem of the Polish government. Are you trying to embarrass us again? in the international arena? Are we to be again a country that will be the only one who will object? Are you trying to get this brilliant diplomatic thought to put us in the European corner again? Membership in the European Union is essential to us and we must not forget that. It is necessary to do everything possible to participate as actively as possible in this institution's activities and to strengthen our country's position. It can also be seen that the euro area countries will have more to say. That is why we should therefore enter this zone. We must strive for Poland to be seen as a strong partner [[♪ The bell ♪]] And an ally, not, like at this point, an outsajder. [[Well, give him a round of applause.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u151	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u152	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm listening to here is what I find to be a specific whisper of reality. It's like the opposition is looking for a black cat in a dark room and saying that even if he's not there, he'll find it there. Congratulations. On the other hand, Minister, let me ask you the following question. This is the result of Brexit's agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. What will happen, whether there is a potential possibility that this agreement will be so beneficial that other European countries, and I am not talking about the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, will also consider the British option of leaving the European Union in order to conclude a different form of agreement with the European Union? So, in short, is there any chance that the post-brexit negotiations will affect the reform of the European Union in the end or not? Will it be the Federal Republic of Europe, or will it be Europe as it was the Europe of our grandparents and great-grandfathers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u153	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u154	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is good that Minister Konrad Szymański further explained the intention of your draft resolution on the anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. For the time being, you can only read from it that you are calling for different speeds to avoid the Union, and you are in favour of changes in order to strengthen unity and solidarity within the Union. But, Minister, we will achieve the unity of the Union just when we join, among others. to the euro area, which we committed to when we entered the European Union. So today there is no discussion whether to join the euro area, but when and on what basis. And here we can discuss. The only problem is that you say it doesn't make any economic sense. In that case, Minister, I ask for concrete details, namely: How much do we lose per year due to differences in exchange rates and fees for financial transactions? What are the annual costs of handling our debt? How are you going to counteract the Union's different speeds when you have eliminated the Eurozone entry team at the National Bank of Poland? So what are your predictions and calculations based on? If you do not change your position, please tell us what your scenario is if a separate budget for the euro area countries becomes a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u156	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Minister, how do you see the consistency of the Visegrad Group in the context of these recent elections? Minister Waszczykowski said that the Visegrad Group countries were under pressure from Germany. Therefore, I would like to know what precise evidence he has that this has happened. Because it's easy to say, it's easy to accuse, but why is that? Because we're on the same track as Minister Macierewicz, who talks about the pressure from the Kremlin on his colleagues from another club. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think Croatia buys a cat in a bag? She's entering the euro area right now. What's it like? This is not a better developed economy than the Polish economy, so please explain to me why they can and we can't. Let me remind you of a fact from 2009. When the crisis broke out in September 2008, the Polish currency lost about 40% values in relation to the dollar. If we were in the euro area, it wouldn't have happened. Therefore, my dear Minister, I would be very careful here when it comes to saying that it is a cat. In a bag that's thoughtless. None of us are saying that we are to enter the euro area uncritically, immediately, in a moment. No. We should adopt criteria, stick to these criteria. The deficit criteria, inflation criteria are, whether it is the euro or not, very important, they are simply very good for the economy. Therefore, Minister, when you say that the euro is a cat in a bag, you deny yourself. Really, you're denying yourself. You can't do that. The euro is truly a guarantee of the stability of the economy, and the countries of the euro area that are in the South... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u157	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u158	...have become poor not because they have the euro, but because they are mismanaged and have a high debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u159	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about a completely different matter, namely the Eastern Partnership, which is the eastern dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy. It covers six countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine. Cooperation within the Eastern Partnership shall include bilateral cooperation, i.e. The European Union - a given country, and multilateral cooperation. What is Poland's participation in the cooperation of the Eastern Partnership countries with the European Union? Do we have any action here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u161	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think we should get down a little bit. First of all, it is worth noting that Polish economic growth actually depends on the entrepreneurship and resourcefulness of Poles, Polish entrepreneurs. Question: "What benefits could they possibly achieve if Poland entered the euro area?" Firstly, transaction costs would decrease significantly. 55% Polish GDP is export. It is necessary to purchase currencies and sell them. These transaction costs in part were eliminated a few years ago and large corporations, large companies cope with it, while small ones bear the enormous costs of these transactions. It is about about PLN 6 billion - so much is left in the financial sector that you hate so much, which would be unfavorable, such are the transaction costs. Plus, there's access to capital. The Minister was perversely talking about low interest rates, which in practice means more access, and lower costs of this capital, and this is certainly not meaningless from the point of view of entrepreneurs. Finally, we have issues of exchange rate risk, which will disappear once we enter the euro area, at least in terms of trade in goods with the euro area just now, and let us remind you that this is, from our point of view, the largest trading partner. In view of this, it is an opportunity for Polish entrepreneurship. No one who takes our country's prospects seriously can ignore this opportunity. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u163	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening, especially over the past year and a half, to the statements of the Members of the Law and Justice, I had the impression that most of you were mentally outside the European Union. For you Brussels, the European Union... It is so that somewhere far away there is Brussels, here is Warsaw. [[It is good that Warsaw is closer.]] You do not feel that we are a member of the European Union. You're asking for examples. Yes, talking about the flag of the European Union as a rag is just a mental being outside the European Union. On the other hand, I have always appreciated Minister Szymański for the fact that as one of the few politicians of Law and Justice he understood the processes that are taking place in the European Union, he felt that we were a member of the European Union. [[But it's over.]] One could disagree, but the level of argument was always very high. That is why today I am absolutely shocked by these - I apologize, Minister - nonsense that you are talking about subordination, not referring in substance to this question. What kind of subordination are you talking about? After the defeat that occurred at the last European Council, are you talking about subordination? My question, on the other hand, is something else. We are on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Treaties of Rome. This is a good time to discuss the future of the European Union. The European Commission has published a White Paper with five scenarios. One of these scenarios envisages a Europe of many speeds. When you look at the behaviour of the Polish government, it seems that this is one of the real scenarios. The Minister underestimates the importance of the euro, its political importance, which is, of course, the enchantment of reality. Being in the euro area has a political importance. And what if... What will be the position of the Polish government if it actually comes to the start of the process of creating a multi-speed Europe? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you continue to uphold your clear negative attitude towards the euro area, or will you want to implement the Treaty obligations of Poland that we adopted in the accession referendum? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u165	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Szłapka, perhaps you would finally mentally return to Poland. Don't accuse us of where we are mentally. Or where we're mentally not. [[Applause]] Because, you know, saying that we're not mentally in the European Union is... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, it's well understood. I'll get back to what I said. Ladies and gentlemen, when we entered the European Union, we also entered the Schengen area. The great dream of Poles about visa-free travel in Europe has come true. We know, and every day we experience this, that it is not only fast and trouble-free travel, but it is also the development of tourism, including business tourism. Freedom of movement also affects the free movement of goods, which also brings many economic benefits, including financial benefits, for Poland. It is even estimated, that this is a profit for us in the amount of PLN 18.54 billion. I have a question about that. Are we in danger of dismantling the Schengen area, since since 2015 countries such as Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Norway have gradually introduced temporary checks at the internal borders of the Schengen area? This is the result of an uncontrolled influx of immigrants. In connection with the announcements of the implementation of the policy of the allocation of immigrants, will this lead to the closure of the Polish-German border - e.g. Polish-German - to prevent immigrants from returning to their dream countries? For we know that immigrants want to be there, they want to live and live there. First of all, in Germany, Sweden, France. On the other hand, this policy, the allocation policy that is being announced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] brings such dangers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u167	Thank you very much. Member in corrigendum? You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u168	Madam, I am mentally in Poland all the time, just like most Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You can't see.]] [[Voices from the hall: You can't see. You can't see.]] [[You guys are judging.]] So do most Poles. We do not rule out that we are Poles and we are Europeans, because for Poles to be in the European Union... [[Voice from the room: You can't even hear it.]] ...being in Europe is a civilized choice. Do not listen to Prof. Pavłowicz, who says that the flag of the European Union is a slut, because in 2003. The Poles made that choice. Over 70% The Poles decided, this is our civilized choice. We're Poles, we're Europeans. We're Europeans because we're Poles. [[We agree.]] It's got to be understood at last. [[You don't have to talk about it, that's what you have to do. Adam, this has to be done.]] We are in Europe because we are in Poland. ♪ And finally ♪ And don't just say, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't just say that the European Union is just a common market, because for most Poles, for the vast majority of Poles, this is a community of values, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, what you do not understand and what you destroy, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] what you are trying to destroy in Poland. You are trying to get us out of the European Union with this action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Finally understand that Poles are Europeans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u169	You're supposed to be straightening up, not saying stupid things. [[Bravo!]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate is very important. It is particularly important for the young generation, which I welcome today to the gallery, which it will be very, very important because these people will want, as I know life, to be in the Union. I have a question. Minister Waszczykowski stated on 12 March in an interview for the Television Republic, quote: "We must certainly drastically reduce confidence in the European Union, start pursuing a negative policy. In practice, this is meant to mean among others. blocking other initiatives and running a very rough game. These are the words of Minister Waszczykowski. I have a question about where is the public interest of the Polish state and its inhabitants in reducing the level of confidence in the European Union. Please indicate to me at least any one advantage that will be enjoyed by the citizens of the Polish state and the Polish state from this fantastic policy that you are conducting. According to the study, ladies and gentlemen, 79% society wants close cooperation with the European Union, but 100% I'm sure he doesn't want the kind of compromise you gave us at the last summit in Brussels. [[Yes, sir.]] Please take this into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u171	Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL! Perhaps I would first refer to Mr Owl's statement, who spoke about the alleged benefits that municipal and district governments have been enjoying because we have been in the European Union for 14 years. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has allowed us to improve the aesthetics of our cities - urban regeneration, the construction of fields. On the other hand, I have a question for you, Members, what about the Polish industry, what the Polish industry looks like. I can give you some examples of what it looks like in individual local governments. [[Ruin.]] Second thing... [[You sound like a PRL.]] Second thing. Mr Kasprzak spoke about the benefits farmers derive from being in the European Union. He forgot to add all the limits and penalties that really kill Polish agriculture. [[They want to leave, I say, they want to leave. The people of PiS-ovsky want to leave.]] Excuse me, no such words. [[And the agricultural subsidies?]] These EU subsidies, Mr President, I do not know if you know, however, are very diverse in terms of EU subsidies for higher speed countries and for Polish farmers. [[Voice from the hall: Don't believe them.]] [[European Democrats.]] I would like to highlight one more point. From the 1950s to 2007, when the Treaty of Lisbon was signed, the Member States, including the smaller ones, could co-decide... [[Lech Kaczyński signed it.]] ...and since 2017, two countries have actually decided: France and Germany. [[Who signed it?]] Please? [[The bell, the buzzer in the room.]] [[Voice from the room: So?]] [[You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u173	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] In corrigendum mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! I would like to send the first information to the Member. On 1 May we will have 13 years of our presence in the European Union, not 14 years. It is worth remembering, it is an important date in the history of Poland. [[Voice from the O.R.: So far it's 13.]] 1 January 2004 Poland entered Poland on 1 May 2004. Poland has entered the European Union. [[January or May?]] Second line. You ask about the economy and you say there are no benefits. You're the one who has no idea what you're saying. The balance was then, in 2004, such that we had a deficit of 10 billion and a turnover of 50 billion. Today it's 180 billion and there are no deficits. These are real benefits for the Polish economy, Polish companies, which have shown that they can do great on the competitive market of the European Union. Within four years, this export dynamic was really big. As a result, jobs were created in Poland. It's worth remembering... [[The bell, the applause.]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u175	Thank you, sir, you have run out of time. You're welcome, Mr. Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Szymański said that entry into the euro area may take place, but this waiver of some sovereignty, in this case in the fiscal area, can only take place if the economic account agrees. That's it. That's it. That's it. It is possible to argue about the most favourable deadline for joining the euro area, but is it not so that you do not agree primarily with the ideological bill, views and Euroscepticism of the leader PiS... [[Yes, sir.]] ...who's holding up a clear declaration about whether or not we're joining the euro area? Unfortunately, joining the euro area means, in addition to the numerous benefits, subordinating towards the European Central Bank, which unfortunately is based for the PiS in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, a country which, according to the suggestion of Minister Szymański, is economically and politically salvaging Europe. [[Voice from the room: You don't think that's true?]] Doesn't the government see, however, that the euro area is simply being in the first league, in Europe at first speed, and that it is worth doing everything to be among these countries? This was shown by the most important meetings of European leaders on the future of the European Union in recent weeks and months, e.g. in Versailles format, unfortunately without Poland. Why will Croatia, which joined the European Union much later than Poland, because in 2013, will have a much faster euro than Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Question for Croatia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u177	Thank you. Now Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, the rights of minorities, pluralism, tolerance, justice - these are the values on which the European Union is based, and these are values that you do not understand at all, do not observe and which you violate your conduct here, in the country, against the law, the constitution and the citizens. [[Take a breath.]] The European Union is based on these values. You guys can't understand it at all. Why are you blackmailing me now instead of talking and negotiating... [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] ...are you going to apply a veto? Is this a new method of negotiating and working with countries in the European Union? Unfortunately, you, ladies and gentlemen, form the Union of many speeds. You're the ones leaving us behind. These actions of yours will affect my generation, my children's generation. These actions will make Poland on the tail of European countries. I have a question for you... [[What kind of action, Member?]] For example, your compromise at the summit when the President of the European Council was elected. Like talking about who Mr. Schulz is. For example, talking about not entering the euro area. These are the actions. I have this question: Does the President of the Republic of Poland have knowledge or does he co-create Polish foreign policy? [[Voice from the room: Ask the president.]] Does he have any influence? [[It's a state-of-the-art opportunity.]] Do you know if the Minister... Did Minister Waszczykowski, Prime Minister Beata Szydło consult with the President on the strategy for the previous summit, or consult on the strategy for the summit that will take place on Saturday? Does the President have anything to say about this? In connection with the disgrace of Minister Waszczykowski and the Prime Minister, perhaps it is worth a little more to hand over this policy to the President? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Something fantastic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u179	Oh, my God. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u180	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Poland is in the European Union and wants to be, only on equal terms and respecting its own national identity. Membership in the European Union has shown more advantages than disadvantages. First of all, it has contributed to the security of our country, and this is the most important thing for us. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How should our country's defence policy be organised in order to ensure greater security? And isn't it that all security integration is as good as it is if it doesn't undermine the North Atlantic Alliance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u181	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question was what direction the European Union was going in. Well, I wanted to explain to Mr Deepbock and other Members of the PiS that the European Union is moving towards the euro. Since 1 January 2007, seven more countries have joined the euro area. After the UK exits the European Union 86% The European Union's GDP will be produced by the countries of the euro area, so if we want to be in this single Union, if we want to be in this Union at first speed, then we should consider our entry into the euro area as soon as possible, rather than loading ourselves into the periphery, because the European Union is moving towards the euro. Our country needs investment. To obtain these investments by domestic entrepreneurs and to get foreign capital here faster... Abolishing the exchange rate risk associated with moving to the euro area will facilitate the raising of capital, reduce the risk of domestic entrepreneurs wishing to borrow money and foreign entrepreneurs wishing to invest in Poland. So that there will be more investment, cheaper available. This also applies to local governments. Price issue. People often fear that prices will rise. It turns out that in the first 12 countries that entered the euro area in 2002, the rate of inflation fell after the entry into the euro area and not increased. There are sufficient price controls to ensure that the whole operation does not unduly increase prices. So if we want to be in Europe at first speed, we need to join the euro area and not go into the margins of the Union. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u183	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You were kind to say, "We speak the same language, but we don't understand each other. There's a full agreement here, unfortunately. We and the European Union are attached to the values on which the European Union is built, let us mention the article. 2. For example, Minister, by the rule of law, we understand legality, which means a transparent, responsible, democratic and pluralistic process of lawmaking, legal certainty and an important role of the Constitutional Tribunal. In your sense of the rule of law, is there a private, political, hand-controlled prosecution used for private purposes by Zbigniew Ziobra? Is it within your meaning of the rule of law that you have turned the Constitutional Tribunal into another private company, Przyłębska GmbH, which, on request and commission, will adopt any ruling in the package, including the signature of the President? Yes, Minister. We speak the same language, but we do not understand each other because we and the European Union use words according to their meaning, you give the same words meaning [[♪ The bell ♪]] opposite. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Take a look at Poland's presence in the European Union through its presence in the Visegrad Group. Minister, do you confirm the fact that the Visegrad Group has made a brand in Europe? Poland in this group has a serious position. Is the Visegrad Group a group for international consultations, or is it finally support for lobbying for Central Europe within the European Union? Does Poland want to achieve greater integration in this part of Europe? The most obvious glue for the Visegrad Group is the resistance of four countries to Angela Merkel's immigration policy, but it is not really the most important one, and it is not the most distinctive V4 countries in the Community, the less apparent resistance is applied to it by many countries. What is more important is something else, something that the old Member States of the European Union do not or do not appreciate. Well, in many Western European countries, a wonderful era has ended. It has recently started and lasted in the new Member States. It's about keeping it going as long as possible. This policy is intended to highlight national interests and strengthen national identity, which does not have to be liked in Brussels or Berlin. Such a policy is not conducive, for example. supporting refugees or EU countries that are in financial difficulties. Minister, do you share the view that the leaders of the Visegrad countries felt that fuel was being drained so that the West could move forward, attracting others with its wealth, security, values, way of life? The West is weakening ideologically, and it is actually gone in this respect. Poland was, is and will be in the European Union because it sees the need not only to exist in it, but also because it needs Europe. And it's not anyone else, like our pope... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, you have run out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! [[Darling.]] Minister! High Izbo! PiS-ie, darling! [[Joy in the Chamber]] Return from the road, return to Europe, end this destructive action to the rhythm of the song: What else would there be... [[Everyone can sing.]] Minister Waszczykowski said: We must drastically reduce confidence in the European Union. What does that mean? That means the government is launching an official anti-European campaign. [[Yes, sir.]] You don't speak directly to the Polish people... [[Michael Archangel.]] ...that you want Polexitu, but Minister Szymański must be watching national television and seeing this anti-European campaign for 17 months in national media, which is building what? He's building Eurosceptical moods. She is ultimately preparing the Polish society on Polexit. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] What is the European Union according to PiS TV? It is a German hegemony and it is a refugee problem...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u189	Mr President, don't yell because we hear you right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u190	...who she invited... [[Don't disturb me, Marshal. We're hearing it right now.]] ...to Europe, Angela Merkel. [[Mr President, this is a debate in the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're a soloist, an increasingly isolated soloist... [[An artist.]] ...who thinks he knows the words, but doesn't know the rhythm, doesn't know the melody. This is your policy. [[And you were a knight.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Look at Poland, how you pass through Poland, how you drive through Poland with an armored Audi... [[Voice from the room: She's beautiful.]] ... Of course 50 km/h, as Minister Błaszczak said, in the government column, without sound and light signals, see how beautiful Poland is. [[Michael, don't bother.]] Poland is beautiful thanks to the European Union, thanks to the fact that we are Europeans. Don't let him dominate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In your actions, the destruction gene that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is in the strategic interest of our country to conduct foreign policy, such diplomacy, which benefits us internationally, in relations with our partners, whether in Europe or worldwide. Hello! Something the marshal accidentally turned off? On the other hand, the state has a policy that Poles do not understand. It is most likely directed only inwards, which means you are rejecting our strategic international interest at the expense of securing some advantages in national politics. This is very reprehensible. I wanted to ask about these European relations in this context. Firstly, with regard to the Weimar Triangle, how do you see its role in shaping policy, shaping the European Union in the future? With the Germans, we still have some issues. It's not only that the state often brings up things for Germany, but you fight about Tusk, you banish the media. It doesn't bring such a desirable... [[But we're right about that?]] I'd like a sedative, sir. ...it doesn't benefit us. With France, it's the same thing: with caracals, telling some bullshit about who's using ships made by France. All of this makes us an absolutely unbelievable partner. How do you see the role of the Weimar Triangle, where Germany and France are our partners? And the other thing. Minister, I wanted to ask you about the issues of financial policy. Will Poland take into account in planning this policy whether your government will take into account the fulfilment of the convergence criteria with the euro area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u193	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! Your notion of self-government and the rule of law in the European Union is to shoot protesting miners, to break into the headquarters of independent weeklys, [[Applause]] is acceptance for stealing Poland - an example of Amber Gold. This is the rule of law of Poland and justice according to you in the European Union. This is the kind of Poland you want, stolen, looted to the left and to the right. But there is one common voice in this debate, namely that you see the shortcomings of the functioning of the European Union, you see the democratic deficit in the European Union. And that's what makes us happy because you support what Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Witold Waszczykowski have said many times, our claims that the European Union is suffering from a democratic deficit. And this must be accepted, but the fact that you support the vision of what Prime Minister Szydło is saying is also a kind of overthrow of Mr Nitras' lying thesis, which claimed that nothing like this is happening here, there are no debates on European integration, on the policy of the European Union. Well, Mr Nitras, I suggest less running with the camera in the Seym and more actively participating in the debate on foreign policy, [[Applause]] Because we've talked about this many times: less running and spying, and more camcordering, but more activity in international debates in this room. [[Applause]] Minister, I have a question about the Posting of Workers Directive, i.e. Directive 96/71 of the European Communities, as amended by the Implementation Directive 2014/67 of the European Union. Namely, unfortunately, the yellow card procedure did not bring us success. Therefore, my question is whether the government plans to launch a red card procedure or to take any other action that may stop at this stage, in the statue of nascendi, the creation of another directive that is harmful to Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Sejm acknowledged this harm by a majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with such a situation that we are exhausting... [[We're out of time.]] ...slowly the time allowed for this debate. So this is going to go on so that I'm going to let two more people speak, but... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But how, marshal?]] [[Three, three.]] Then there will be a representative of the applicants and the Minister, and we will conclude the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I have a formal application.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I value you very much, because as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, you are indeed a competent person who knows European matters, but I will honestly say that when I listen to your speech and narrative, not yours, because probably your boss, I fear that you are derogating not only my intelligence, but also yours. If I hear you're announcing great success and victory when you get back from Brussels, I'm terrified. We are simply all aware of what happened there and what situation you have led to - the fact that Poland has become a laughing stock not only of the European Union but of the whole world. I hope that you will learn from this failure and will not act as Minister Waszczykowski suggests, so you will not block EU initiatives, have an ever more critical attitude towards the European Union. Indeed, this is part of the narrative that has functioned in the United Kingdom. It is from such texts that the slow departure of the UK from the European Union began. You're going this way. You tried to go the Hungarian way, didn't work out very well, now you're going the British way. It doesn't matter what Minister Waszczykowski says, or what Prime Minister Beata Szydło says when they say you don't want to leave the European Union. I would like to remind you of the importance of the Prime Minister's words. I would just like to remind you that the Prime Minister has said that Jarosław Gowin will be the Minister of Defence in her government. What is the credibility of the Prime Minister in making a declaration that he does not want to be a member of the European Union? This is true: you will do everything you can to get Poland out of the European Union. You are on the best path to this and we will tell you one thing: we will block your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Again with the blockade in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u197	But you're going... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I have a formal application.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u198	Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion that the Marshal take a break and think about it, because there are people here who have been in the debate for the past two hours or waiting for them to just keep them out of the loop for the last eight hours and close this discussion. On the afternoon agenda, we had a point that was supposed to last 1.5 hours, so I think nothing will happen if we finish this debate in a fully civilised way. I, Mr Marshal, am waiting two hours to speak, as are the other Members, and you have decided that two more people will be present and that will be the end of the discussion. [[We don't break the rules.]] So, Mr. Marshal, please don't close the discussion, finish it. This item on the agenda has been extended a number of times... [[But it always is.]] ...and the marshals continued the discussion for 20 minutes so that each of the Members could speak in accordance with their role... [[But I don't think you're gonna say anything new.]] ...and destiny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u199	Thank you very much. I'm afraid you've insisted on... [[It took a minute and a half.]] ...to make it two minutes. If there was a minute to speak, everyone would have made it in time. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I would like to point out that there are eight people from the Law and Justice and only two from the opposition among those who will not be given a vote, so you cannot accuse me of bias. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But I very much wanted to.]] Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Club Law and Justice. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska will then speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the 25th of March, i.e. on Saturday, will take place promoted by the Gazeta Wyborcznicza action I love you, Europo. It encourages people to go out on the street in order to protest against the Government of Law and Justice of Poland from the European Union. The letter of intent was signed, among others. Mr Richard Petru, Mrs Joanna Mucha. I listened carefully to President Petru here today at the meeting. Mr President did not hide that the aim of the Government of Law and Justice is to get Poland out of the European Union. It's not true and manipulative, it's a typical mask. I wonder who taught you that and where? [[Leszek.]] We want to be in the Union, but on normal rights and principles, not as a state or a second-class country. Ladies and gentlemen, our more than a thousand years of history, our contribution to defending the values of Western civilization, our centuries-old cultural and scientific achievements empower us to expect us to be treated as an equal partner, a valuable ally in this unstable world. Question to the government: How does the government intend to counter this clever manipulation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Petru, the applicant's representative, now has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u203	Mr President, what are you doing here? Mr Richard Petru now has the floor on behalf of the applicants. That's what we agreed, and you were arguing with each other. I'm sorry. [[Rysiek, leg.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u204	We're not on you. We're not on you. Mr. Marshal! Please draw your attention to Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u205	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u206	...so he wouldn't speak to us on you, because I wasn't with you, nor would I want to be with you on you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u208	Well, that's for you, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u209	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u210	And I ask you to say something to this Member and this Member too. [[If you're a marshal, you're gonna point.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I can explain a little bit, because I can see that the State of the Ministry of Finance is not up to date on the issue of economic arguments when it comes to accession. [[You've already settled.]] The first point is that the most important thing is cyclical convergence, that is, when we have similar cyclical cycles. [[Take it easy.]] Poland has a very similar economic cycle to German, because 1/4 of our exports are sent to Germany and most to the countries of the European Union and the euro area. Second line. The Minister was talking about interest rates. Ladies and gentlemen, interest rates vary from country to country because market rates are important, not EURIBOR. Market rates are important, i.e. they are different in Greece, they are different in Germany. The market rate of loans granted by banks is different. You know it, or you don't know it. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, that is why it had problems because it had an irresponsible fiscal policy - such as yours - spent money on the left and right when it had nothing to finance it. Just as in Poland in Greece it was said: it is not true that there will be no money, there will be money for all expenses. As it was said in Greece, Andrew Duda once said that there was money and that there was no money. In the same way, in Greece, you owe more than you can afford. Consequently, the Greek government's misguided policy has led to problems. In the euro area there are Germany and there is Greece. Germany has a sustainable budget law that blocks the rise of the debt that we have proposed and you have screwed it up. As for Greece, which, like the PiS, is in debt, perhaps this is how your governments will end. As far as independent monetary policy is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case. If there was a liquidity problem, who provided liquidity in Poland? The European Central Bank. We are in fact under the influence of a very important area, the euro. If there was no liquidity, the National Bank of Poland had liquidity thanks to ECB. It's gotta be... I'm glad you're writing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to know how you want to analyze the situation in the euro area, how the National Bank of Poland, led by Mr Glapiński, closed down the cell that deals with it. Previously, the National Bank of Poland at least prepared reports on this matter. [[Because he knows how to do it.]] And now there's not even anyone to prepare a report. No wonder you don't have the latest knowledge. But now, ladies and gentlemen, it's a matter of what the Prime Minister is doing. The question is for the Prime Minister. After all - listen - we all know that when you go to such a summit, the declaration to be signed is long known to the leaders of individual countries. Does the Prime Minister know this declaration, or does she not know this draft declaration? I'm sure he does. [[Everyone knows everything.]] Therefore, I have a question: Is she going there to sign it or not? This declaration, as we know it, is a directional declaration that the European Union wants to be together after 60 years and wants to develop. Minister, I have a specific question: does the Prime Minister know this declaration or not? Do you know her? If I know life, you know it. After all, we all know that these things are agreed much earlier, and if you don't agree with us, if you don't know her, then we are one country in 28 countries that doesn't even get that kind of information. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about national identity. There's nothing better... [[Rysiek, 27.]] We are not on you, sir, and we will not. Don't say anything, and if you have anything to say, go out to the bleacher and say, okay? [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, please, something about this... [[If you're a marshal, you're gonna show a finger.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ignorant, arrogant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u211	You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen... Mr President, I will have to warn you that I will apply severe sanctions to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u212	Ladies and gentlemen! Now I have a request for you to read a little bit about the history of how Britain was leaving the European Union. Namely, since Britain was about to enter the euro area, the process of disintegration has begun. Like you, they ridiculed the European Union. They questioned the European institutions, just as you do, they introduced an atmosphere in which the European Union was evil. Then even the conservative prime minister you've been in touch with... [[Prime Minister Cameroon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u213	I would like to ask Members to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u214	Please hold the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u215	The Member is already finishing his speech. I'm asking for a little more patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u216	I'm coming back again. The Prime Minister of Great Britain, with whom you were in one nation, has led to a situation where he discouraged the European Union. And how did he get out of it? He proposed a referendum. And what's the effect? The United Kingdom is leaving the Union. And unfortunately, you're doing exactly the same thing. Now look at this: he drove Kaczyński to Orbán, and it turned out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That Orbán betrayed him. Now Kaczynski's on his way...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u217	Thank you very much, sir. I'll add 10 seconds to your interruption.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u218	...now Kaczyński goes to Prime Minister May to find out how he gets out of the European Union. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u219	Thank you very much. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański to speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of questions that came up in this room at the same time contained the most desired and most comfortable answer, so I will not interfere with this well-being, nor will I add my answers to such questions, I feel a little closer to reality, but I understand that the state needs these phantom fears for something [[Applause]] and you need attention to the problems of the Polexit type, problems of the type: first speed around the euro area, tomorrow, etc. I understand that there are such needs. I won't bother you. From serious matters, I think the most important thing in this debate is the issue of the future of the Union, because in fact the matter is not as sure, not as automatic as it used to be. There's a lot of question marks. Poland is today one of the most active countries, the most visible countries in the debate on the future of the Union in an obvious way. [[Applause]] The reform of political objectives, the reform of the instruments that the Union should use, was the first Polish request and I admit: the state is right, we were alone in this matter right after Brexit. That's what most people think today and say. It is a pity that without your support, it is a pity that you denied it. Today, moreover, even the European Commission is talking about the Treaty reform, which is quite important for you in terms of authority. [[Applause]] When we talked about the reform of the treaties, the state in this, in these fears, held their head and said that it is absolutely impossible, it is taboo, it cannot be mentioned, it can only be thought of in a closed dark room. Today, three of the five scenarios that the Commission is giving us for no particular reason, because this is not the Commission's role, are creating a reform of the Treaties. I expected you to address the same words of criticism and fear to Brussels, addressed to the European Commission. But I understand that right now it's a credible view, right now it's a correct view, right now we believe it because it was spoken by someone else. When it comes to goals, Polish expectations, it is quite clear that we emphasize unity and scale in this discussion not because we are experiencing your fears related to the fact that we will be in some other room, in the hallway, in another car, I do not know what else. No, that's not why. That is not what we are afraid of, because it is up to us to decide what part of the Union we want to be in. And this decision will be made in this parliament, not elsewhere, not by anyone else. You should remember this, because I hope that you will take part in these decisions. [[Applause]] We do not fear for Polish places, but we fear for the future of the European Union. We are concerned that some, for nostalgic reasons, because of the fall in ambition, are today thinking about reducing optimism, rather than reforming the Union, rather than strengthening it against the real new challenges that have emerged on the horizon, simply dividing the Union and closing in some small clubs. I ask: Will the division of the European Union help us protect our socio-economic model or not? Will the division of the European Union better protect our trade interests against global forces or not? [[And you're the ones who share the Union.]] I ask: Will the division of the Union help us to ensure better internal security, external security... [[No, it won't, I'll answer.]] ...to deal with the migratory crisis or not? So I don't understand why you're rooting for a split solution today with just one condition: to catch this table, which, as you imagine, is important. [[Applause]] [[You're the ones who share the Union.]] If you claim that membership in the euro area guarantees this first speed, this comfortable situation, this political and economic comfort, if that is true... [[You wrote it in the treaty.]] ... If this were true, there would be more than four countries in Versailles, because more than four countries are part of the euro area, as you probably know. So perhaps some other criterion has been used and this criterion has created you this vision that has frightened you so much today. I think it is obvious - I have said this several times in this Chamber - that we have a very specific view on European defence, a very specific view on threats to the common market, which will cause the sharing of Polish companies, Polish citizens, Polish workers to have blocked access to this market because of the bad intentions of some countries, some political forces... [[Bad government policy.]] ...who see the solution to their own structural problems through protectionism in the internal market. Until now, this has been the domain of some Member States, to put it mildly. Today, this is the domain of initiatives by the European Commission itself. I would like to hear from you at least one word on this subject. [[Media polonization.]] Instead, we're listening to the polonization of the media... [[Media polonization.]] [[Calm down.]] ... The Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u221	Mr Nitras, do not disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: These are, as we know, matters closely related to the Roman declaration, closely related to the euro area, closely linked to the future of the European project. Absolutely it's really a very retail analysis, a diagnosis. Congratulations. This slightly refers to the quality of the debate. You have rightly pointed out here that this debate is not very much, isn't it, that you are unsatisfied about how we are talking about foreign policy and EU policy? That's it. That's it. That's it. [[Some of them are.]] You just know what? The quality of the parliamentary debate depends on the parliamentarians, not on the government. [[Applause]] I, in this House, present to you twice a year a very comprehensive document on the activities of Poland in the European Union, in all sectors, in all policies, also with some attempt to interpret it more generally, in order to encourage you to talk about the European Union. The way you take advantage of this opportunity is really your business. You usually talk about the media on this occasion, the Constitutional Court, which was last on the front page of one newspaper or the other. It's really not my choice. I will encourage you to give up on this, although my expectations, of course, are less than ever. There was talk of a level of trust. It was an important declaration. Let's face it: if rules are broken, trust in every club: small, big, international, international is simply falling. That's a statement of fact. This trust can always be restored, provided we return to respect for the rules. It would be better for the Polish Parliament to draw attention to this and support Poland, because it is not about the government, it is not about any party, it is about Poland... [[The Polish Parliament is about Poland.]] ...to support Poland in ensuring that the rules are respected in this club, because if these rules are not respected and they are permanently violated, this club will end up in big trouble and it will not be Polish merit, only those who believe that the argument of force can be more important than the rules. [[Applause]] Poland will not agree to this. I'll tell you at the end something that maybe at least some of you will calm down. [[I don't believe it.]] Poland is ready to make good compromises in the European Union on any possible matter. There is only one condition: respect for the rules and respect for Polish interests in each retail case. The establishment of the government is to define, study and measure this interest in detail, so that it does not end with membership in the European Union, which will only have a decorative meaning: for parades, for walks and for social actions. No, we're a member. Decorative we don't want, it's true, we want real membership. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] There were many fears about the state of preparation of the Roman declaration. Poland, like the Visegrad Group, was one of the best prepared regional parts to discuss the future of the Union. It was in Warsaw that the premieres of the Visegrad Group adopted the most extensive document on what the Roman declaration should look like. I am pleased that these arguments are becoming more and more convincing today, to the imagination of many different capitals, but let us be honest: the Roman declaration will be when the signatures of all prime ministers are under it, not before. The expectation that Poland, as perhaps one of the few countries, will come to Rome with some decision taken much, much earlier and in Blanco, is completely frivolous. Here again I see the expectation that in this particular case we should use a decorative policy. We are interested in the European Union taking note of the 60th anniversary in 2 days and showing serious directions for the development of its policies, but there is no agreement on the decorative acts on our part. We're interested in membership, but not decorative. We're interested in a declaration, but not a decorative one. The state constantly encourages us to keep Poland in a state in which it is satisfied with the fact that it is recorded somewhere at all. Such a policy after so many years of membership really no longer exists. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: May I?]] Please, we have a little more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is most important, and what we have discussed, are convergence criteria, that is, information that we need to have low inflation, sustainable finances. This is, of course, enshrined in the criteria for entry into the euro area. But this government wants to have a healthy economy, pursue a policy of responsible public finances, economic growth, not because it's written somewhere, someone's setting some external tasks. This is the task that has been established by this government, and the convergence criteria It is not important that Brussels has set such an objective here. Following the convergence criteria Only to meet other people's expectations is unjustified, because what is most important is long-term growth and sustainable public finances as a government objective. The discussion about the euro area, about membership, should indeed be based on true information. Mr Petru - I will draw attention to three mistakes. Sweden is not in RM2. Secondly, the interest rates in Greece and Germany are the same, EURIBOR is the same interest rate as the Greek and German banks. [[Market.]] There is a third element: during the crisis the National Bank of Poland did not have a swap agreement [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the European Central Bank, but with the Swiss Bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u223	One minute to corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u224	Minister! Don't bullshit people. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What language is this?]] I was talking about market rates, not EURIBOR. That's point one. Secondly, I was talking about a rigid course, not an RM2. That's point two. This is very important. Therefore, as you know exactly how the crisis was, the liquidity of the National Bank of Poland provided the European Central Bank. There was no other way. Therefore, consider that we are part of a larger whole. Minister! Don't tell me the truth because I was talking about market rates. Therefore, depending on the country's fiscal policy, which is economic policy, the rates are different and there are different rates. Therefore, there is no de facto single monetary policy within the euro area, because they vary depending on the quality of the country. So what's the most important thing? In the euro area you have to be, but the country has to be ready for it, it has to be prepared economically. Minister! I asked you if the Prime Minister knew the Roman Declaration or if it knew its contents. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: He answered.]] If you know what it says, then you know you're not renegotiating it anymore. You're gonna come down there and either sign it or you're not. [[It's like your Roman Empire.]] Minister! Then declare it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether you sign this declaration or not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u225	This statement, this corrigendum, concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The idea behind the creation of the European Union was the idea of political, economic and social integration after World War II. The European Union should aim first and foremost at open cooperation, unity, justice and equal treatment, irrespective of the size and wealth of its states. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union needs reforms and changes. A two-speed Europe is not a recipe for success, but for failure and failure. No conclusions were drawn from Brexit, and this situation did not teach the leaders of the European Union anything. A two-speed Europe is a two-layer Europe, bringing about a division between stronger and weaker, richer and poor, obedient and wayward, better and worse. Law and Justice do not agree with such a European Union. Known for its leadership, Soros calls for such a Europe, a Europe of two speeds. It believes that countries that do not belong to the euro area should be treated as members of the second category of the EU. Minister, I therefore have a question: Is there a prescription for a strong, solidarity and united Europe of one speed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u227	Minister! Is it true that the fact that Poland has not yet entered the euro area makes Poland's economy grow without major obstacles? This argument is supported by the fact that the government of the PO-PSL coalition has done nothing in this matter for eight years despite the noisy announcements. According to many promises, Donald Tusk Poland should have been in the euro area for several years. But none of this happened because they couldn't and didn't even know how to solve this issue. Now it's called. total opposition rips apart the robes and introduces disinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u228	The role of national parliaments in reforming the EU. The membership of European countries in the EU's structures has resulted in a certain weakening of the position of national parliaments. While national parliaments continue to carry out important tasks, such as the obligation to transpose EU law standards into the internal rules of the Member States, their competences in the area of legislative powers at European level have so far been limited. It is increasingly beginning to express the view that the activity of national parliaments in the EU should be strengthened. Extending the participation of national representative bodies in building the EU is an opportunity to guarantee the democratic foundations of the European integration process and to remove emerging concerns about the democratic deficit. Minister, what is the Polish government going to do to strengthen the role of national parliaments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will begin with my strong support for the decision taken several years ago to join our country in the structure of the European Union, because it is a great opportunity to develop rapidly and facilitate international cooperation in almost every area. Financial support is also important to mobilise powerful investments in various types of infrastructure, research, human capital development, as well as significantly broadened horizons and freedoms in terms of migration, job choice or place of business and, consequently, increasing the level and quality of life of our citizens. But these are not only positive qualities without the proverbial other side of the coin, because they are also a significant drain of good professionals, craftsmen, well-educated engineers, doctors and specialists in various fields and many other necessary Polish compatriots. Therefore, I would like to ask: Does the government have an idea to encourage these extremely valuable people of our homeland to remain? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Representatives of the Poselski Club Modern ones push the need for Poland to enter the euro area in public space. Social support studies for entry into the euro area show that this initiative has less than 30% support. In addition, Poland must meet the formal criteria necessary for the adoption of the euro in order to be able to be in the euro area. convergence criteria for macroeconomic indicators. In the current economic situation, could Poland fulfil all the so-called ones in a lasting manner. Eurocriteria on debt, deficit, inflation, money baskets, etc.? Do the countries that are already in the euro area meet all the criteria currently required? Does Poland's entry into the euro area entail the need to amend the constitution as regards the provisions on the role of NBP, the role of the central bank in the conduct of monetary policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u231	I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 43 hours 13 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko (prints 1320 and 1336). I would like to ask the applicant's representative, Gabriela Lenartowicz, to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we will be debating an extremely important issue. We will lean on a serious problem because this is not a classic debate about expressing a vote of distrust towards the evil minister. This is our parliamentary court on the Szyszko case, because in these categories, in procedural terms, we must consider the effects of this minister's activities. [[Applause]] How else can we describe what we witness on a daily basis? Every Pole, leaving the house, sees the effects of the Minister's work. Looking to the left, he sees a hectare of forest grubbed up by the developer, looking to the right, he sees a tree slaughter in the parks. It's been like this every day for at least three months. Millions of Poles on the way to work, on the way to friends, on the way home accompanied by a moose saw and ax. 2 million trees, 2 million barbaric trees grubbed up, because such a law was dreamt of by Minister Szyszko. That's the basis of the indictment. The Szyszko case is the essence of the PiS state. As in the pill there are all the pathologies of these governments: pride, hatred, covetousness, nepotism, uncontrollable destruction, hypocrisy and ordinary lies. [[Applause]] Until now, however, only individual groups of citizens have seen this... [[And now even the trees can see.]] ...those whose concrete solutions to this crew were directly affected. Now, the truth about these governments, the truth about the minister of the environment already sees everyone. Minister Szyszko - Minister of the Environment, who took the honor of destroying Polish nature. So I'm going to start presenting this specific indictment... [[You are the one who has missed your calling, Madam Member.]] ...because trees are silent witnesses to this process. We, Members of the Platform, will therefore be prosecuting on their behalf. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Jan Szyszko, acting as Minister of the Environment, acts to the detriment of the citizens of our country and the Polish environment - an environment which, by virtue of the laws and powers assigned to him, should protect, and is leading in an unacceptable scandalous, anachronistic environmental policy, and that on our and subsequent generations the bill. His government in the Ministry is the destruction of the environmental system in Poland. It's a turn to hysterical, historical... [[Hysterically, hysterically, Member. You're not wrong, you're hysterical.]] ...compromised idea of robbing the exploitation of natural resources, including natural resources. At the same time, the minister compromises our country, not only in the international arena, but also in the eyes of the responsible, because they are, loving the native nature of Poles. To confirm, I will necessarily mention just a few examples, because you could write and quote a book. The most recent is, of course, lex Szyszko, which was adopted on 16 December at an illegal meeting in the column hall of the Act amending the Act on Nature Protection, non-constitutional, incompatible with European directives and fundamental principles of legislative practice and the right of citizens to organise and participate in decision-making. It is a law that has already caused and causes the hecatomb of trees in Poland. This seemingly only parliamentary law enabled Minister Szyszko to carry out at a suspicious pace and suspicious circumstances an equally suspicious mass clipping of trees in cities, rural areas and forests. [[Almost like an exposé.]] [[7 hours]] The knight of good change has spoken. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It is on the initiative of the Minister and as a result of the Minister's activity the ongoing dismantling of environmental institutions in Poland is taking place. The first manifestation was personal changes in the departments' agendas... [[You're in pain.]] ...in State Forests, National Parks, DG Environment and Regional Environmental Directorates, Environmental Inspectorates, etc. They concerned not only the management of these institutions and the public resources at their disposal, but also advisory bodies, e.g. The National Council for Nature Protection. Experts and scientists who do not share Jan Szyszko's positions and his unfortunately primitive, anachronistic views on nature conservation are being removed. An example? It is hard to wonder if a specialist in firing saws is at the head of the Forestry Scientific Council if he is advised by a well-known Chris Cieszewski. Why should I be surprised? [[I don't. Who's that?]] [[Voice from the hall: And I know a decent man.]] Minister, where is this crypt of this particular knowledge of yours spewing? Are they in Toruń geothermals? [[Poorly, my fellow Member, poorly. Not content, not form.]] At the same time, the Minister consistently supports this alternative scientific facility by organising conferences and symposia for public money. Of course, there are numerous examples, and the Minister himself gives these examples in the report to the Prime Minister. Let me give you one example. The Białowieża Forest Conference - Myths, Facts, Future, organized by the Ministry of Environment, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the Higher School of Social and Media Culture in Toruń, in cooperation with the Parliamentary Group on. Sustainable Development of Europe, Association for Sustainable Development of Poland and Independent Laboratory of Evaluation and Evaluation of Natural Resources. Where? It's in Tuczno. [[Applause]] The exhibition organized by the Ministry of the Environment together with interested parishes in Poland: the Białowieża Forest - natural forests or the cultural heritage of the minority... [[Local population, Member.]] ...of the local population, etc. The public scandal has already triggered the Minister's first financial decisions in the national environmental fund under his authority at the outset. It is a well-known and loud collection of money from Lesser Poland to co-finance the fight against smog under the EU LIFE programme and simultaneously allocate 27 million compensation to Toruń's Lux Veritatis of Rydzyk's father. This is a halt to the funding of low-emission programmes, the elimination of low-emissions for local governments and the directing of hundreds of millions of zlotys to hypothetical geothermals, as expensive as inefficient. This is punishing non-governmental organisations that opposed the Minister's policy on the Białowieża Forest, taking funds from them for nature conservation projects. It was also about co-financing EU or international projects. But as part of the functioning of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, I quote: in order to promote environmental protection and natural heritage, in particular to initiate and undertake various actions aimed at raising the state of environmental awareness of society. Examples of topics of the lecture: soldiers cursed, Polish-Jewish relations, Islam - opportunities or threats. [[Applause]] Out of pity, I will not quote authors who are known for their views. On the initiative and idea of the Minister, another so-called "Sejm" is being conducted. Parliamentary draft laws ruining the developed and proven system of environmental institutions, ensuring, among others, the required. through the European Union social participation. This ministry has in fact prepared a deadly package of amendments to key laws. They destroy the Polish environmental system and block the participation of citizens in environmental behaviour. This package assumes, among others, the removal of regional and General Directorate for Environment, the elimination of the impact of local authorities on the development and financing of environmental policy in the regions and the deprivation of the public's influence on the spending of public funds on environmental protection in the regions. Finally, as a result of the actions of the Minister of the Environment, Poland is constantly threatened by an international image scandal, including financial scandal. The government does not respect the commitments made by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee on the Białowieża Forest. Since 2016, an increased section in the Białowieża Forest has been in progress against the position of recognised scientists and with the protests of environmental NGOs. This curian decision by the Minister of the Environment, demoting one of the few preserved primary forests, thus one of the most valuable natural areas in Europe, has echoed widely in the world. Minister! Do you realize that the forest has not destroyed the invaders or the Nazis or even the communists? You're just making it. [[Applause]] [[It's a lie.]] [[This is simply an outrage, my fellow Member.]] The alerted UNESCO committed Poland to halt the cut-off and urgent remedial work. Unfortunately, the Minister breaks these commitments in many ways and does not follow the recommendations of the UNESCO mission. This threatens to include the forest on the list of world heritage in danger and will have fatal consequences for Poland and Poles. The European Commission has also launched an examination procedure against Poland, which will result in a lawsuit against Poland being brought before the Court, but also in the loss of EU funding, not only for natural projects. Also for investment, because compliance with European environmental standards and public participation in their assessment is an absolute prerequisite for EU funding. Researchers and environmental organisations are alert to disregard by the Ministry of the Environment the basic regulations of the European Union concerning nature conservation, including the non-compliance of the legislation with the existing directives, the last lex Szyszko without mentioning. I'm afraid so. These opinions, in the opinion of the Ministry, quote: "The result of distorted consciousness', are called new speech and the result of the submission of leftist ideology. These are quotes from the report addressed to the Prime Minister. On the other hand, protected areas under the European Natura 2000 network are supposed to be the result of pressure on our country to become a barrier to economic development. According to the Minister, European regulations on nature conservation lead to habitat destruction and extinction of species, as illustrated by the Białowieża Forest. Other assessments of this reality are for the ministry of factoid and post-truth. The Minister's idea is also to fulfil our commitments on the use of renewable energy sources by co-incineration with biomass coal, in the form of so-called. energy wood, mass-produced - this is the Minister's favourite phrase - in Polish forests, and, I do not know if you know, demolition wood. Yes. Demolition wood is now an energy wood and is treated as RES. This wood consists of morally worn furniture and equipment. That in their composition we have Mendeleev's board, we all know. And this is all when the World Health Organization warns that Poland has the worst air quality among all the Member States in Europe. Unfortunately, the Minister for the Environment is not taking any action to change this situation. On the contrary, he had already knocked out the Polish-PSL government's new National Air Protection Programme, withdrawing funding for the fight against low emissions from local governments. Mr. Minister on 26 January, so recently, in the Seym on behalf of the government, he presents his hypothesis as to the origin of the smog. The smog is responsible, among others. location of Poland. It proves that the smog problem does not exist in Spain, Portugal, Scandinavian countries and countries... [[Wawel dragon.]] ...over the Atlantic Ocean, because - I quote: With the western winds, rather clean air is blown from the ocean, and if there are winds the other way, it is blown out into the ocean. The cause of smog is also natural soil contamination. These are quotations from the minister everything: These dusts have the same diameter as PM2,5 and PM10 dust. In Scandinavian countries, Great Britain, Scotland, Ireland and others, which are surrounded by large water reservoirs, there is much less pollination than in mainland countries. On the other hand, a hit of particular consternation is strongly promoted by Minister Szyszko's own concept, authorship and climate policy. Instead of reducing emissions, carbon dioxide is to consume Polish forests and thus balance this emissions. Only that, as the experts calculated, for this balancing to make sense, more than 1,100 thousand should be planted for the Bełchatów plant itself. ha pine forests, occupying almost 4% Polish surface... [[How have you calculated this, Mrs Bauer, from where do you throw such numbers?]] ...and it's a duty to keep it for decades. It is hardly surprising that this concept, which would require a return to the forestism of Poland from the times of Living I, has not met with serious treatment. Unfortunately - and this is already dangerous - this concept serves the Minister in the international arena as the only argument in the negotiations on climate policy. It is this wunderwaffe which, according to Jan Szyszko, is supposed to allow Poland to use as an exclusive source of almost rich energy resources in the form of hard coal and brown coal. Also foreign policy within the Visegrad Group practiced by the minister not only that it does not produce any results, it compromises us in the regional international arena. It is not even about the fact that the Heads of Delegation, the ministers of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine are seated behind the Presidency table in the ministerial barn in Tuczo with impressive antlers over their heads. It's about the exotic concepts promoted there. forest coal farms and our way of preserving biodiversity, including the offer of exports of bison to countries not necessarily interested. Their implementation, i.e. These original ideas of the Minister, at global level through appropriate legislative solutions, should, according to the Minister, be reflected in the EU's climate policy. He doesn't. It is precisely because of the incompetence of Minister Szyszko Polska who loses in Brussels an important battle in the climate battle on the reform of the ETS, the EU carbon trading system. On 28 February, a meeting of the Council of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy was held. Environment made up of Ministers for the Environment environment. This is a date that will undoubtedly be written down by its characteristics in the history of climate policy. Poland was led into the forest, literally and figuratively. Not by alien green people, but by the incompetence of his own minister and his forest stories, that we should negotiate hard, chasing away all this decarbonizing decadence, as the commentator of this idea described graphically. According to the Minister, the legal basis was wrong, especially since EU law knows better than its authors. Besides, we have forests that have conquered the world at the top of Paris. The result? We go back to the forest, the Polish forest, we put the scythes on the storm and we go with a complaint against the Court. [[And we're in the woods.]] The force-forced concept of excluding Poland from the ETS is even so exotic for our potential allies that no one takes us seriously. As a result, instead of negotiating with Brussels, we are convinced how much we will be able to play them all. The result of these negotiations is therefore the weakest for Poland for many years. Anything that was in the negotiation range and that would allow us to gain time and conditions to less painfully reform our power supply, we have lost with cretes. Without, of course, detracting from the role of our enlightened MEPs, among others. Prime Minister Buzek, who thanks to his competence and cooperation skills took care of protecting and helping Polish and other industries in this field. [[Well, it is best for the Polish industry to take care of Tusk by signing a document... 2020 in 2008.]] The foreign policy pursued by the Minister is, as you can see, a mirrored reflection of the foreign policy of the PiS. Also in this it is mirrored that the final bill for this policy will be paid by Poles, this time at energy prices. And these, as you know, do not end at the prices of the energy itself. High Izbo! Environmental policy is a specific area that requires not only high substantive competence but also special respect for people and the environment. This environment with its natural resources is undoubtedly one of the greatest riches that our country has. It is all the more possible to take care of this heritage only in agreement and in social participation, as well as in compliance with the rules in force. Unfortunately, Minister Jan Szyszko does not have this competence. There are also serious doubts about the Minister's other qualifications, or rather the lack of them. Well, the Minister has serious problems with statements of property, where he maintains, certifying it with his own signatures, that in 1994-2011 he bought a total of 1670 thousand from the State. ha agricultural land. It's about 160 white folk parks. This area is so huge that the Minister's declarations must raise doubts, especially since these huge areas of the land Jan Szyszko consistently lists in many annually renewed property statements. And in 2016, when he corrected two statements of property, he maintained that he had five areas of land of several hundred thousand hectares. At the request of the Committee on Ethics, Minister Szyszko replied that he was not able to state the current value of his property. This also applies to the laboratory and residential barn standing in the experimental fields of the minister in the municipality of Tuczno. On 7 March, the Ministry of Environment corrected the Minister's statement by announcing that, quote: There is an obvious typographical mistake, because instead of a unit of square meters, an hectare was entered. What about the other statements and other inaccuracies? [[Nowak needs to be asked.]] And why serious, under strict... [[Why don't you ask Karnowski, he won't count his funds.]] ...criminal liability made by the Minister and the Member straighten out the press services? Hectars become meters, old gold mixes with new ones, disagrees with the date. And this is stated by the Professor, ordinary and longtime head of the Self-Study for Evaluation and Evaluation of Natural Resources at the SGGW. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So here is the situation that the Constitutional Minister or he does not have sufficient intellectual qualifications to at least grasp his wealth and honestly declare it, be moral, with telling the truth. Tertium non datur. There is another delicate sphere of ministry. Until now, Poles have not been able to explain publicly the allegations of nepotism made by the minister. Maybe today they will, because the purity of the relationship in this regard is one of the basic requirements of a civilised state high officials. Mr. Marshal! Messengers! Members! Finally, the last case, which summarizes it, is a specific accusation. Julia Hartwig once said that she was not serious in the world. I remember how I was struck by the relevance of this statement and how much and basic social need is the seriousness of government, the seriousness of power. Today I invoke this statement for a reason. It is precisely the lack of seriousness in the constitutional office of the Minister of the Polish Government that is the last charge against Jan Szyszka. This lack of seriousness is manifested not only in the way of acting, but also in the merit of decisions made. And how easy it is to get infected with this lack of seriousness and for example. to build this speech exclusively from quotes from the minister, to present a specific comic book composed of memes circulating on the Internet, such as: carbon dioxide emitted in Poland is the gas of life for living natural teams to become better and better, and I will talk to the EU Commissioner for Climate and Energy about this. This statement won the competition for climate-related nonsense of the year of the Climate Science portal. Or: Global warming is certainly a political decision. Or about smog: in the Sahara there is pollination much greater than in Europe, dust rises, is flown to Europe and also to Poland. [[You repeat yourself, Member. How much can I do?]] What do you call it? A joke? No, I'm afraid not. It's a tragedy. Written by the minister, or maybe, excuse me, the altar boy of the director's father, and in a few files. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Hey!]] I hope that this spectacle is coming to an end - for Polish nature, for future generations, for the good of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[This is the level.]] [[Would you like some water?]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u233	Thank you. Now I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Bąk to present his opinion to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! At this item we stopped at the Parliamentary request of the Civic Platform for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko. High Seym! Before the committee meeting, we received materials, a proposal signed by Members of the Civic Platform and a justification. There were many references to the person of Professor Jan Szyszko in the explanatory memorandum, and it is therefore legitimate for me to say something about the fact of the High House at the moment. On 17 December 2008 at the Pontifical Academy of Sciences in the Vatican Member of the Polish Parliament on behalf of the party Law and Justice Prof. dr hab. Jan Szyszko received the prestigious award of the world's organization of science that brings together 100 countries of the world - the award of them. Ettore Majoranas Science for Rooms 2007 [[Applause]] - for scientific achievements for peace and social development. Among the awards there were 60 Nobel Prize winners. High Seym! It should be noted that for the first time this distinction was granted for research in the field of ecology, as the chapter had previously awarded prizes for research in physics, chemistry, medicine. Member of the Polish Parliament Jan Szyszko is the second next to St. John Paul II was the winner of this award from Poland. [[Applause]] [[Are you the committee's rapporteur?]] [[Then you have to beatify him. You have to beatify him, there's no way out.]] High Seym! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry held a discussion at its meeting on 7 March 2017 on the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for the Environment, Professor Jan Szyszko, and expressed her opinion, in print No 1320 and 1336. During the committee's deliberations there was a situation which requires deeper reporting. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, former high-ranking representative of the government of the PO and one of the authors of the proposal, as chairman of the committee, tried to commit manipulation. During the committee's deliberations, many Members in their statements clearly demonstrated the absurdity of the motion for a vote of mistrust and the absurdity of the allegations made by the Minister for the Environment. This was a direct rejection by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry of the proposal, which led to an unfavourable situation for applicants and thus for the President as one of the applicants. At that time, the president made a crazy conclusion to the vote, which was as follows... [[But what is this report?]] Who's in favor of a negative opinion? The President's proposal to vote in the opinion of many Members was intended to create confusion in the public opinion, [[Joy in the Chamber]] that most of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry voted in favour of the proposal... [[Don't sleep on committees.]] ...which in the published, discussed print no. 1320 had a different title, I quote: a motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko. [[You shouldn't have slept on the committee.]] And in such a way it should be voted after discussion: who is in favour of such a proposal, i.e. who wants to support it and who is against it. Finally, after the intervention of the members of the environmental committee, the committee voted on the following proposal: Who is in favour of expressing a positive opinion on the motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Jan Szyszko? On the example of an absurd, ridiculous motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of the Environment, he is entitled to see... [[You're the committee's rapporteur.]] About the reasons... [[What kind of grades are these?]] ...which caused an unjustified attack on the Minister of the Environment. The vast majority of members of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry believe that it is essential to put an absurd... [[This is the committee's position.]] ...the motion for a vote of distrust is to create confusion in the public opinion and to try to dissuade the effects of good decisions by the Minister of Environment and the Government of Law and Justice, who act for the good of the country and according to the expectations of the majority of citizens. [[You'll read the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.]] The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry voted by a large majority and expressed a negative opinion on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for the Environment, Jan Szyszko. 17 Members voted against the proposal, 10 Members voted in favour. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry recommends that the High House reject the proposal contained in print 1320. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u235	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. We'll proceed with the discussion. Mrs Anna Paluch has the floor as first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of my club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, against the request to revoke the Minister of the Environment. Of course, I read the 1320 print. [[Of course you can read.]] It was discussed at the meeting of the committee responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been looking for factual arguments there, but in vain. The justification for this conclusion disappoints, and deeply so. This steak is untrue, insinuating and persuading, it's hard to call a reason - what you might have been watching here. The justification should at least stick to the facts to some extent, and here are rather freaks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] In the explanatory memorandum we read about the collection of funding for local governments against smog, while simultaneously targeting multimillion-dollar settlement compensation for the Lux Veritatis Foundation. I understand that the PO thinks it's appropriate to subsidize, twice, about equipment and energy prices, about wind energy. That's what you did in your own time, fortunately past governments. [[Applause]] And what is the result of this policy? Poles see a forest of windmills... [[The windmill forest.]] ...which mostly due to their technical condition should end up in a landfill in Germany, and thanks to these subsidies, they are still around in Poland. However, you know that windmills are an unstable source of energy. If it's blowing, there's a surge of energy, if it's not blowing, it's silence. [[You shouldn't talk about stability.]] But we have an energy source that works 24 hours a day 7 days a week, but you just have to be able to reach for it. I'm talking about subhalan geothermals. It is a pity that the applicant did not bother to come to the meeting because she would know exactly what the prospects for using geothermals are. [[It was in fact.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are being implemented at the moment... Not only is Podhale geothermals developed for several years and reduced low emissions in Zakopane, between 30 and 40% but other projects are also being prepared: Toruń, Sieradz, Circle. As for the money for the Lux Veritatis Foundation, I would like to remind you that the agreement was concluded in 2008. In an unprecedented way, the signed contract was terminated. The Foundation filed a case in court, and if it hadn't been for a court settlement, it would have been 40 million, not 26. We've talked about this seven times in committee, and you're on your way. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Applicants have the audacity to undermine the powers of Minister Jan Szyszko: Professor of Forest Science, Head of the Department of Landscape Architecture of the SGGW, Doctor... [[He's the one who made the landscape architecture...]] ...member of the Committee on Ecology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, under the direction of which dozens of master's, doctoral, habilitation works were created... [[And millions of trees fell.]] ...who has developed many specialists in the assessment of natural resources from Poland and Europe, doctor of honoris causa of two foreign universities. How do I put this? Let us remind you that in your previous government, an economist, then a financier and nothing good for Poland, for her finances regarding the commitments resulting from the climate and energy package, did not result for Polish entrepreneurs. As for the hustle that you raise around the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, I will not repeat all the data showing the real state. I would just like to remind you that under the authority of the vice-president of the PO in M.S. Warsaw was cut out of 230 thousand. trees... [[And 200,000 were planted.]] ...after which no one shed tears. [[Applause]] [[But they already do, they do.]] The most powerful example of tree care by the platformer authorities of Warsaw is the famous palm tree on the roundabout de Gaulle. First, artificial and second, road. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! It's an artificial government!]] With the money spent on it, you could plant a piece of park in the trees... [[Artificial trees and artificial government.]] ...though, ladies and gentlemen, Krasiński's garden, where in 2013 a mass clipping was made, even a slaughter, 300 trees - no one here wept in these trees - despite the opposition of the Warsaws, despite the protests of environmental organizations. Trees of trees, but as it turns out, the most painful thing is to cut your people out of their warm stools. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] As for staff changes, I would like to say to you that the Minister has the right to work with those he has confidence in. This is an obvious principle for anyone who has ever managed anything but for you. You're acting like you've got a life sentence. High Izbo! Two more words about what Minister Jan Szyszko found when he sat in the Minister's seat. This is 575 unprepared and unreleased legal acts, four laws, 17 regulations, one resolution of the Council of Ministers on the National Waste Management Plan... [[500 pheasants.]] ... 388 Regulations of the Minister for the Environment and 175 Regulations of Regional Environmental Directors approving plans for conservation tasks for natural areas. In addition, the Minister found 21 infringement proceedings in the European Union: at the judicial stage - six, at the reasoned opinion stage - eight, at the stage of the charge... [[Poor guy.]] ...formal - six [[♪ The bell ♪]] and at the stage of formal allegations in relation to the allegation of failure to notify, one. In short, think about who compromised Poland before abroad. [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u237	Thank you, Member. [[Why don't you go abroad and ask who's embarrassing who?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u238	High Izbo! My club will, of course, vote against this psychic, unwarranted, and huckier proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u239	Mr Stanisław Gawłowski will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must certainly refer to the words of the rapporteur. Perhaps naively, Mr President, I assume that Members are thinking people, including PiS Members, and no matter how the proposal is made, they know how they want to vote, simply simply. [[Applause]] Gabriela Lenartowicz is right: a vote of confidence is a special institution. It should only be used in special situations, and this is what we have now. Not much in the history of parliamentarianism after 1989 was the case of as valid proposals as this one to Minister Szyszko. My predecessor, Mrs Paluch of PiS, began her speech by saying that it is an opposition game, that it is not true that there are no arguments. Madame - hard arguments, you can see them with the naked eye and in fact the operation of the Platform, the action of the opposition in this matter is not a game, it is the last board of saving Polish nature from action... [[Boards.]] Yes, the board, precisely the board, so that you understand it precisely, because you want Polish trees, Polish forests only to be boarded, and it is difficult to call the action of Minister Szyszko otherwise than barbarism. Here, too, I agree with Mrs Lenartowicz. [[What a surprise.]] Yes, Minister Szyszko is a barbarian because in a barbaric, ruthless way he destroys Polish nature. [[Mr President, I would like you to count on your words.]] It destroys the achievements of decades, but it destroys the achievements of hundreds of years. [[Easy, Member, easy.]] And there's one more right. The Minister is able to support; although he supports only one man's interests - maybe business, to be more precise - Fr Rydzyk. [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] [[Voice from the room: Is that an argument?]] If the Minister were to care equally effectively about the issues of forests, clean air - you are right, Mrs Windmills, because this is a renewable energy source... [[Which destabilizes our energy system.]] ...species of animals like the Redemptorist's empire, perhaps our country would be in the vanguard of beneficial changes in environmental protection. [[Applause]] [[Don't be so rude about your wife's interests.]] But that may be how we are in the vanguard of one father's support. Indeed, for several months in Poland there has been noise in every city, in every municipality saw - motor saws. It's worth going back to that bill. This was all happening on December 16th, on the day of the disgrace of the Polish Sejm... [[It's true.]] ...and disgrace in your release. And not just the budget bill... [[Voice from the hall: You have disgraced the Polish Sejm.]] ...but also this law, which has already been named lex Szysko, Mrs... [[Szysko, Stihl's live commercial.]] ...was accepted on that day. I wonder why in such a way, why you wanted to accept this draft law in secret, apart from the session of the Sejm. The answer is pretty obvious. [[The session of the Sejm lasted, sir.]] The answer is pretty obvious. You were trying to protect business... Your president, President Kaczyński, who is not here today, spoke about this, but I regret it because he quite clearly said that this is a law that is lobbyist. [[CBA with this.]] It is estimated that the state budget, the municipalities' budgets have lost about PLN 1 billion, even more than PLN 1 billion. Over PLN 1 billion. Whose business were you in? What is the income of those whose value of the property has increased? [[Voice from the room: That's a lie, what you're saying.]] [[It's true.]] I don't know, it's hard for me to guess what the minister's taste is, perhaps his favorite landscape is the Kazakh steppes, but why would he want to do that to the Poles? [[Is that supposed to be ironic? Come on, sir.]] This is meant to be true, my fellow Member. It's supposed to be as real as anything that concerns the Minister. [[But it's not.]] And on this background It can be understood that the fight against trees, especially the most beautiful ones, is a mission for the Minister. It wasn't anyone else, it was the Minister who started praising the Białowieża Forest from the trees. [[This country is responsible for what happened in the Białowieża Forest.]] You are the first minister in the history of Poland to think of something like this: the destruction of a unique environment on a global scale. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I could, of course, mention...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u242	...a lot of very important arguments, but you will allow the Marshal 10 seconds. I wonder what kind of literary character would...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u243	Mr President, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u244	...be the equivalent of a specific alter ego of Minister Szyszko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u245	Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, this is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[You didn't say anything interesting, sir. Sit down, sir. Discipline. Discipline of speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u247	Mr President, please leave the speaker. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u248	...destroyer of Polish nature. [[Applause]] [[Weak and unspeakable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u249	You've run out of time. Please. Mr President, end your speech. Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen and ministers! I would like to present to you the position of the Kukiz club15 on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Environment Minister Jan Szyszko, submitted by the PO Group on the basis of Article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 116 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I wrote me this position, I consulted with the Members, I thought that today I might learn more about the arguments relating to the justification of this proposal, but unfortunately I was disappointed by the Member who presented this proposal, because in principle I only heard the same uninteresting and unsubstantiated arguments, the arguments which I heard in the explanatory memorandum. [[Applause]] [[Isn't that interesting? 2 million trees?]] I did not disturb you, Mr Grupiński. If you're a well-mannered man, don't waste my time. Okay? That's what we're gonna do. [[You'll do the talking.]] In the motion, Members mention only six theoretical accusations to expose Minister Szyszko as a person harming the Polish nature and economy. Unfortunately, these allegations do not really withstand any confrontation with reality and rather give the applicants a rather weak assessment of reality analysis and real care for the good of nature. So-called. The arguments cited in the explanatory memorandum are basically a classic example of creating reality and a substantive assignment of the importance of evidence to these creations. Some of them are even of such a personal nature, one might ask for the word 'demagogical', such as hitting an environment, generally supporting a minister, quite absurd allegations of supporting an alternative scientific environment. I ask, alternative to what? [[Applause]] Against Polish universities, Polish scientific institutions or perhaps alternative to eco-terrorists, followers of the new postmodern druidism? Because what are these alternatives to? This science is actually abrasion of different concepts, choosing a certain concept as an alternative to other concepts and implementing it. And it is always the one for the individual who chooses, in this case for the politician, the one who hopes most to meet the needs of the moment related to the challenges facing him. I will no longer mention the references to Radio Maryja, because here I see some solid obsession of some Members. I don't know what one has to do with the other, [[Applause]] Whereas the state always returns to this Radio Mary, as if it were some bad dream that is constantly manifesting itself. I'm not going back, so I don't have that problem. [[Some people come back, car crashes even.]] I didn't, so I don't think that's my point, sir. [[And some go back on the freeway against the current.]] [[You have to have a fantasy.]] With regard to errors in statements of property, ladies and gentlemen, I would be careful on the spot of the Platform on talking about errors in statements. We have already had explanations from the Minister on this matter, and I could also point out such errors in the state of government, and this is not an argument that would be relevant here from the point of view of the problem we are considering. Another thing is, for example, the comments about the pheasant hunt raised in Internet media. This merely indicates that someone has no idea how such hunting takes place or the whole structure of this type of activity, and it would be worth first of all to adopt the truth that we should be dealing with. I won't mention the town, although here I could tell you quite a lot because of my professional competence, but I don't think that's the way. On the other hand, applicants are also hitting the change expected by citizens for many years, i.e. the restoration of the right of owners to own their property. You're the ones who've been talking about freedom forever. [[Applause]] It was you who kept stressing that you were a freedom group, and now you're trying to take away the freedom to decide about the tree that I'm gonna plant myself, which is on my property, is my property? Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop demagogy about cutting out the acres of the forest. Every day I leave the house, there's no tree cut out, and I live in the woods. So let's really stop. In some ways, make up ideology for a reality that is completely different. And that bill, that's what I call it. lex Szyszko defends Minister Szyszko. This is where I bow to the Minister, because he's one. [[Applause]] With few ideas of freedom in the last 25 years... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...involved in this parliament. Since 1940 Polish private property has been trampled, won't admit any rights, doesn't want to introduce a reprivatization bill and now we want to kill this element that comes out... [[Voice from the room: Bravo, very good!]] ...against people's expectations. [[Applause]] Another thing I wanted to mention as an element, which I think is positive, is the changes that occurred in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and in the voivodship funds. Namely, already today our Members in the field report that these organisations are starting to work better, they are starting to work better. Let us not really be hypocritical, and let us not say that the minister lists his coworkers, and we did not. With all due respect, all the crews were doing it, and suddenly, there's a charge made against Minister Szyszko. Then the case of a new discovery planned in Konin. There, too, Minister Szyszko's actions now meet the expectations of the residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Perhaps it will be stopped. We also have some charges against Minister Szyszko...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u252	...even though it's about spending money, about funding and a few other things...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u253	Mr President, you have used your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u254	...e.g. not punishing the employees of these funds who have worked so far, but we will not support...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u255	You're welcome. He's going to speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u256	...that motion for a vote of distrust. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u257	...Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Main sins - degradation of the Białowieża Forest. In March 2016, the Minister of the Environment ordered an increase in tree clippings in the Białowieża Forest. Ecologists indicated that as a result of this decision, the Białowieża Forest could be destroyed and turned into a plantation of trees. After a six-month debate and protest, the final decision on the cut-off was welcomed by the National Council for the Protection of Nature, but 32 out of 39 members had to be mentioned to obtain this approval. International experience shows that the forest can be reborn after such an attack by a rootworm, but it must be allowed to do so. A week ago... [[Well, 400 years old, Member, minimum.]] ...a week ago, the Commissioner of the European Union for Environment called on Poland to stop immediately the clipping of the Białowieża Forest. There is even talk of a request to the European Court of Justice, and there is doubts about UNESCO. In April 2016, the Sejm adopted the amendment of the Forest Law by Minister Szyszko by a majority of the PiS votes. It gives the State Forests the right to buy back and the right to buy forests from private owners. The adopted project restricts ownership. Its action means nationalisation and expropriation to the State. The last amendment, namely lex Szyszko, the Act of 16 December, which allows uncontrolled logging of trees. The change was needed because the previous regulations were too restrictive, but this law allowed uncontrolled tree slaughter, grubbing up Poland. And now the question is whether it's just a fatal mistake or a deliberate act. Modern has submitted its draft Nature Protection Act, but what was to be cut has already been cut out. Here you can paraphrase Asnyk: The vain sorrows, the vain labors, Powerless villains! Cut out trees no miracle He's not gonna come back to existence. [[That's a bad paraphrase.]] [[You've got to move on with the living. You've got to go on with your life. You've got to go on with your life.]] The Hunting Act is the Hunting Republic of Minister Szyszko in full order. We have full support Szyszko for bad solutions in law, such as the possibility of children participating in hunting or restricting the rights of tourists, residents, and even... [[And you're back to yours.]] ...owners to enter the forest during hunting. In Grodno near Torun 500 pheasants were released from their cages directly for the hunters waiting. Among them is Minister of Environment Jan Felix Szyszko. [[He was there.]] Is that still what you call hunting? 'Cause I think it's already a tree slaughter for big boys' fun. Another... [[The voice from the hall: Tree or... make up your mind.]] Sorry, bird slaughter this time. Another sin is the policy of centralising decisions and measures of regional environmental management, jumping to stools and cash, centralization at the expense of local governments. Smog - no action, based climate policy on coal, financing geothermals instead of replacing furnaces. It will cost very many Poles health. 15 October 2016 in the Sejm there was a conference devoted to environmental protection in the context of the papal encyclical. The Ministry of Jan Szyszko paid over 400,000 for the organization of the meeting. zł. In this way, money for environmental protection was earmarked for ideology. Minister Szyszko, instead of being a minister who cares about the environment, turns out to be a destroyer of nature, an animal killer and a butcher of trees. [[Madame, this is already beyond good customs.]] His omissions on the issue of smog make him an accessory to sickness and death of many Poles. Mother Nature is a good thing not only for us, but also for our children and for generations to come. I appeal to Minister Szyszko to preserve the heritage of all Poles and Poles. Modern will support the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister Szyszko. [[Applause]] [[What a surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u259	Ms Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u260	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! A month ago I asked a question about the scale of clippings of trees, i.e. the grubbing up of Poland... [[We remember, indeed.]] Great. ...about the dramaticly wrong novelty of the Nature Conservation Act. What are the consequences of the imprecise new, adopted in haste and without public consultation, law? The Act of 16 December is an example of the extreme pathology of the legislative process. I know that this bill has been prepared in the Ministry of Environment, and the Minister is silent as a spell. Who made the money, Minister? Minister, if we're talking about you, it would be a good thing to listen to us out of courtesy. [[Applause]] [[You gotta say something smart.]] Who in these grubbed-up areas will put whom it will be, those fries houses that will rise in the magnificent areas where trees should grow? They're not going back there anymore. We'll have to wait another 300 years. Maybe it's time to wake up. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of State defends only the PiS, the National Council for Nature Protection, mentioned almost entirely, and spontaneously gathered under the Seym by random foresters... [[Voice from the room: Marzanna melts.]] ... specifically, the minister of the subordinates, whom I greet very warmly from this place. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Beautiful, wonderful performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u261	On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the last year and a half of Mr Jan Szyszko's activity in the environmental ministry does not have much to do with this noble idea, and the most important environmental laws are created in other resorts, and at best as a parliamentary initiative, probably for the sake of not knowing. The maritime and inland waterway management resort has led to the ratification of the agreement on inland waterways, while the work on Water Law, which implements the Water Framework Directive, is still ongoing. The energy resort creates a policy related to air protection, and basically sets out directions for the development of Polish energy. The voice of the resort of the environment sounds very thin in this matter, as from the ground, because the recipe of the resort for improving the energy balance of Poland is the development of geothermal and biogas plants. The support for civic energy was practically abandoned and green energy became a public enemy. During many winter days, when we could clearly see that we have smog in Poland, you, Minister, pointed out the guilty at once. According to the internal instructions of the PiS, about which legends are circulating in the Seym, they are to blame, never to us. The role of the on-call boy was thus taken over in the eyes of Minister Szyszko of the local government. Self-governments are according to the Minister, e.g. responsible for delays in the implementation of waste projects. So let me remind you that it was your resort, the resort of the environment, which delayed the adoption of the National Waste Management Programme, which resulted in serious risks of not using the funds of the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and the environment. You are responsible for fulfilling international commitments, which are a condition for obtaining support under the 2014-2020 perspective, it is about billions of euros for Poles and Poles, for our citizens, for improving their lives, negotiated by our government. Without changes to the programming documents concerning waste management, waste water management and water management, Poland can lose an immense part of its resources with such difficulty. How do you intend to replace them? Instead of a good change, we have threats to stop the investment. Moreover, Poland will be obliged to organize these areas from its own resources, developed from the pockets of Poles and Poles, Polish citizens, from our pockets, so the issue we are asking for today is of great importance for Poland. [[How's Janek Bure?]] According to you, local authorities are to blame, and if so, they need to be taken away from them, preferably under cover of innocent-sounding slogans about fixing the system and saving money. Regional environmental funds as local legal entities are placed under the strict curate of the voivodeship, minister and president of the national environmental fund. From Warsaw you can see better what the sovereigns need. The example of the distribution of subsidies to environmental education by the national fund, which is publicised by the media, is also very meaningful. Domestic change, money for your own, for your harmful projects for Poles and Poles. [[Elewarr.]] Poles are sick of it. [[How's Janek Bure?]] How's Obietka? Why don't we talk about his corruption charges? [[Applause]] [[What about the gold bars?]] The second after local governments defined by you by your enemy are NGOs. Hence the ideas to reduce their impact and the planned reform of the Regional Environmental Directorates. The transition of the Ministry to public consultation of important projects, and preferably smuggling them as parliamentary projects, has become a common phenomenon. A lot has already been said about the Białowieża Forest, but in my opinion it is the law of saws and axes, which means the right to self-sacrifice trees on private plots, requires clarification. Who lobbied for developers? Even the president of the PiS has suspicions. [[What are you saying here?]] And then there's the minister's horse: hunting with mass killing of animals and forestry with tree slaughter. Why is this agricultural resort dictating a law on hunting damages and a post-Samoode union activist announcing a new hunting bill? It is you, Minister, who leads to the destruction of the Polish model of hunting and you have no prescription for getting out of this situation. Farmers go out into the fields with crops, and they don't know who's gonna estimate the damage to them and who's gonna pay for it. [[But they don't go out on the streets.]] The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports the request to dismiss Mr Jan Szyszko from the role of Minister of Environment, because on the [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minister of the environment just doesn't fit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u263	Now on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully sympathise with this and thank you in full for all that you have said on behalf of the group of Members who are calling for the resignation of this one of the worst ministers of this government. I'm saying competition is very strong, but you're putting yourself in one of the leading places here, Minister. I wanted to support this proposal on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of the committee very much. I must say, Mr Fare, it seems, Mr Fare, if I haven't twisted my name, that you can be accused of a lot, but over-honesty, objectivity and integrity of the report - you couldn't have been accused of this. It was a report in this respect that was curiosity. I will try to be as clear as I can so that even the intellectual wing of the PiS can understand this in people of symbols such as Suski, Mrs Pawłowicz, some others, this eagle from the raccoons. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, they have a specialist like that, even Mr. Szyszko would fit in. [[Applause]] One takes care of cutting down the woods, and the other takes care of firing. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] animals that... [[I'm the one who ate my food.]] No, maybe, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] There are legitimate shouts, I'm not offended, you can speak by name, there are so-called in parliament. The wuschenruf, just for the marshal to count my time, oh. [[I was buying for mine, and you were eating for mine, for the public.]] Everything, the time of this madman, for this madman to time me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u265	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u266	...that this madman's time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u267	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u268	...patriots you've added to my speech. [[He didn't eat.]] I'm sorry, Minister Szysko, that I have to support this proposal because you, as an entomologist, aroused a certain sympathy in my subconsciousness. I'm an entomologist, too. There's a fraternity. But you who speak so much about the love of your country, about Poland, you do not speak big words, I think you will agree, Minister Szyszko, that salus rei publicae suprema lex. According to this principle, I must vote in favour of the motion to dismiss Minister Szyszko, of course. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lenartowicz has already justified this, actually it is only possible to sign. A few more additions, because everything was almost there, but there are a few things that you have weakly emphasized: this senseless slaughter of the Białowieża Forest, a senseless translation that you are supposed to be fighting the barkers. Minister, the barkers are on the ground for about 50 million years. When the last dinosaur died, there was about the first rootworm, although it's 200,000. Years. The coroners were doing just fine without people. So that they thank you, don't take care of the corkscrews. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And leave our trees and our animals alone. Besides, you somehow hated those runners, Carabidae, which is the group you got that big reward for. I did not know that such a prize was given, here someone has been discussing it for a long time, Mr Bąk seems to be the eagle of today's debate. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then congratulations to you, too. And why are you destroying these runners now? 'Cause if they live in the woods and you're murdering the woods, you're cutting the branch you're sitting on, because those joggers are tall, and now you're erasing the runners. In general, I would ask that you do not reform Polish nature and that you do not take care of the protection of barkers or the Białowieża Forest, nothing at all. You change your profession, or you change your profession. [[Applause]] He'll go back to basic research. That's my... The forests functioned perfectly without human interference. Ladies and gentlemen, because I don't have much time left, I'm just gonna say one more thing, because it was left out here today, and I don't see any reason to ignore it. This is the curiad letter of Minister Szyszko, which means in defense of such, lysusovsky, who sucks up to Tadeusz Rydzyk. It's not, Minister, it's not a father. Well, maybe it's your father, for me, he's a businessman, and as a businessman, this humble friar vowing poverty has been a great success. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] because it's 54th on the list of the richest Poles. So, congratulations, congratulations to Tadeusz Rydzyk, he is an effective businessman, an oligarch, because he benefits from the support of politicians. The support for this oligarch, which Minister Szyszko in the leading way declares, is scandalous and disgraceful, just as the name of this radio is blasphemous - Radio Maryja, because I do not recall that Our Lady is engaged in the campaign of Emperor Octavian or supports Tiberius. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u269	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u270	... actively active in the political party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u271	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u272	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u273	...to slow down your...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u274	...do not take time. Mr. Rydzyk is actively engaged in political activity, he is constantly carrying out an agitation, he is setting up his own parties, he is giving support to politicians, he is solving these parties, so that I would ask very much, I would ask very much... [[But it hurts that he doesn't support you.]] ...to not use this title as a father, because this parody of the Catholic priest for this name... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[But why did you turn it off?]] It hurts the truth. It hurts the truth. It hurts the truth. [[Sit down, it's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Please leave the podium. You're done, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u276	...vote in favour of appeal. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u277	Luckily, you're compromising a small circle in this Seym. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, near the Republican.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, there is a very rational principle that the owner of his property in his plot can cut out trees and shrubs, as he thinks it is appropriate. And for unknown reasons, they're protesting against it. Who? Well, different socialists' ointments, [[Applause]] who think they know better what the owner should be doing on his property. [[Freemen. Liberals.]] Moreover, the Minister for Environmental Protection, these various socialists, claim that he is not similar to them. Well, us Republicans, that's not the issue we're worried about. The Green Socialists are alarming because of the so-called. It's a tree slaughter. Well, such a Catholic country, and such a strong Druid sect. That's weird. [[Applause]] They forget, however, that the cutting of trees primarily concerns local areas. So maybe this should be about... [[Warsaw.]] [[Private. You haven't read it.]] ...should give rise to a debate on the exchange of local authorities for a bit more prudent, e.g. in Warsaw. So why do the green socialists from the Civic Platform, instead of calling off cities like Warsaw, want to call off the Minister for Environmental Protection? [[You haven't read the bill.]] [[Voice from the room: Reprivatisation.]] There is also a custom in some environments that if you don't like someone, you get insulted. This is indeed a much easier solution than a discussion based on substantive arguments. The news is that the Minister is the perpetrator - I admit that here it is difficult for me to hide my admiration for such a sublime language art, so I quote: the rolling dismantling of the institutional environment protection system. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Why? Because those who have so far completed this system are replaced by others. This, in turn, poses an extremely real threat to the wider protection of the environment, but rather the environment of the Civic Platform in this case. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Do you really think you should be under special protection? [[The extinct species.]] I hear the Minister is running an outrageous, destructive, anachronistic policy, and he's compromising it. Terrifying. I have been sufficiently familiar with the many arguments of the debate concerning, for example, clippings in the Białowieża Forest to say that the arguments raised in this debate are often contradictory and that the opinions of foresters in this respect are divided. [[Forest for foresters, pharmacy for...]] I am, of course, not a specialist in this field, but I see a certain correctness. [[Yeah, you can see that.]] Those who wish to dismiss the Minister for Environmental Protection believe that the ideal successor of the Minister will be the successor who, in the case of protests in organisations such as Greenpeace, will, of course, suspend the decisions prepared by the foresters. In addition, there are supposedly such suspicions, there are reservations about the Minister's speed of action. It's said to be suspicious. I assume that, in the opinion of the citizens' platform applicants, it should act at the rate that they acted during their rule of law. I guess it's just so the barkers can do their job in the meantime. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Applicants for the Minister's appeal also often recall international opinions as extremely valid. And he's got it. there is also a place in environmental matters. And we, Polish Republicans, vice versa, prefer Polish ministers who convince the international opinion of Polish arguments. These are our arguments, our Polish side - we believe - they are valid and should be communicated on the international stage. That is why I have such a request that we should already end these foreign trips in the situations we are talking about, in situations concerning Poland. Socialists from the Civic Platform are here, I quote Sztaudinger, in love like a man in the woods - staring at one tree. And they're here to cut out the minister of environmental protection - a paradox. As Circle of the Posel Republicans, we are strongly opposed to the application for the cancellation of the Minister for Environmental Protection. [[Voice from the hall: There is no such minister.]] We will do this with the greatest pleasure - at this moment the most free minister of this government [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure we'll defend ourselves to the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is the Minister of Environment.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u279	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Jan Szyszko. Once again, I have to express my embarrassment about the signing by the Civic Platform Group, among which there are so many experienced parliamentarians and former ministers, a proposal containing such a large number of personalities towards the Minister of the Environment, Professor Jan Szyszko, and so little content. Again, we are dealing with a series of invectives reducing the level of public debate. Nature conservation is the art of reconciling conflicting interests, not propaganda terror practiced by people reluctant to present administration. Reading into the citizens' platform's proposal, it is difficult to find a reasonable argument, because it is difficult to accept slogans of the type: the minister compromises the policy of the current government on the international stage, as a substantive contribution to the discussion on nature conservation in Poland. I would like to hear from the opposition the definition of tree hekatomaby, because perhaps it treats several relationships in the reluctant government of television as a picture of reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the POs, step away from the TV screens and start by using the figures if you apply for the constitutional minister's cancellation. [[Take a walk into the woods.]] The claim that a free cutting of trees is possible in Poland is an abuse. It should be recalled that the area of forests in Poland is more than 9 million hectares, and more than 82% of resources are public forests, where rational forest management is conducted. Individual tree cuttings are therefore of the nature of local landscape changes and do not significantly affect the state of the environment. The Nature Conservation Act has actually restored the protection of private property: my land, my tree, my right to cut out this tree. Each system requires improvement, especially when there are conflicts of interest leading to delays in investment processes or breaches in the disposal of private property when the public interest is maintained. Widening the atmosphere of suspicion against the constitutional authorities by insinuating and giving false information is at least a reprehensible act, but it seems, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, that in this matter the dear country from the Civic Platform has recently begun to specialize. The concept of Minister of Environment of Mr Jan Szyszko on the implementation of climate policy by means of the removal of CO2 by forests and the establishment of the so-called. Forest coal farms are obvious to all those who understand the principles of negotiation in the European Union with a view to consensus rather than subjugating economically weaker countries to the interests of stronger countries. Furthermore, the potential of biomass as well as geothermal energy is used symbolically in Poland. And it is good that we have, High Izbo, a minister who sees the need to diversify sources of heat and electricity based on renewable energy sources. An excellent example is Geotermia Podhalańska, as well as the one criticised by the state of Toruń geothermals. This is some kind of ideology, because it has something in common with Toruń geothermals Lux Veritatis or the father Tadeusz Rydzyk mentioned here. It is simply incomprehensible that the state is attacking renewable energy sources, geothermals only because it is in the hands of one entity or another. The climate policy pursued by the Minister is forward-looking, aimed at Poland's energy independence, to preserve Poland's sovereignty in this area. In turn, the case of the Białowieża Forest is an example of responsible government policy aimed at protecting nature. The area under special protection as a global natural heritage was saved from degradation by a controlled cut-off aimed at eliminating the trees affected by pests. It should also be recalled that Prof. Jan Szyszko is the forerunner of the struggle to preserve the Polish heritage as far as forests are concerned. It was Professor Jan Szyszko as a Member who also fought against the attempt to privatise the State Forests. That's what you need to be reminded of. [[Applause]] [[That's windmills.]] The windmills, sir, produce unstable energy, one that even German companies cannot cope with. [[They're doing just fine.]] [[The voice from the room: How did you get this, Suski, you know?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle has confidence in the activities of Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko, who has shown that he can talk to the environments [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] with divergent interests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Izbo! I'm running out of time. We will vote against the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister and we strongly support the actions of Minister Jan Szyszko. We are glad that such a minister is in the Polish government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u281	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Klawiter. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As a representative of the Right of the Republic of Poland, I would like to sum up the allegations of a vote of distrust against the Minister. First of all, I'm gonna start with what I agree with: the defendants. It is certainly the case that, in matters concerning the reduction of voivodship environmental funds, the reduction of the impact of self-governments should be taken as a step in the wrong direction. The principle of subsidiarity is inexorable here, and even though local authorities, as I have observed, have made a lot of mistakes in spending funds on environmental protection, it is about allowing heat pumps in places where there is heat, and it has been undeniable mistakes, everyone has the right to their mistakes and local authorities should have power over environmental funds in this regard. That's where I agree. On the other hand, in a number of other charges, one should have a slightly different optics. There's been a lot of talk about cutting down trees. A number of incorrect information was provided by the media. This number of trees in relation to the quantity we have in Poland is marginal in total. And I'm a little surprised at the party, one that basically property should, let's say, bet on the pedestal and respect the property right that such a plarum raises in the case of a proposal, this bill proposal. This proposal for a law is the result of decades of bad policy in this area. It was a very bad politician, and eventually it has to be let go. And at this point in time, when there's a change, you have to deal with these different situations. The argument that surprises me at all and shocks me is such a bad speech about geothermals. Inefficient geothermals - it is suggested as if there were no geothermal conditions in Poland. This is total bullshit. I don't know if the authors of this, let's say, material, have penetrated the contents. We have a geothermal strip where there's a chance to get geothermal energy, and we have places where it doesn't pay off, where there's deep geothermal energy. And you can't say that this is inefficient energy, if Geotermia Podhalańska, so to speak, gives heat at the price of PLN 47.5 per GJ, and I know many other heat plants that give more expensive heat. Therefore, such a decline in geothermals is completely unjustified and misleading. That's even... When we talk, for example. other renewable sources, we are positive, let's say solar batteries, etc., although the price of electricity produced by these batteries is higher, even higher. And here we're not saying it's a be, and that's a good one. The host, every host, must develop these different energies and this is the right step, in the right direction, for which I would like to thank the Minister in particular. Climate policy, CO2 absorption by forests. There's a language here that's used, and I wouldn't say ridicule, something, let's say... It is about determining how it can be that the Minister here insists that we can, through forests, gain some advantage over other European countries as regards climate policy. Of course, everyone knows that by increasing the surface of the forest, we store a certain amount of CO2. If during the postwar period we grew the area of the forest from 21% to 30.5% It is the minister's duty to show it as our advantage: listen, we have more and more forests, we have CO2, so we need to get some concessions from you for climate policy. I think it would be a sin of negligence if he didn't pick it up, and here it's raised as an accusation that it's some kind of inconvenient theory, although every high school student should know that it's obvious. The quantitative issues are already other matters. So here's what I'd say: most of these charges are unfounded. I will say that, especially in the case of geothermals, this is a completely unfounded, unsubstantiated argument for me at all. Therefore, I believe that the whole proposal is unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u283	Thank you very much, sir. The list of MEPs has been exhausted, and I ask that Prime Minister Beata Szydło speak. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Voice from the room: For 8 years...]] Mr Nitras, I ask you to restrain your pseudo-actor skills. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the overwhelming impression that the proposal we are discussing today was made under the influence of the moment when Members of the Platform on the Internet discovered a picture of a squirrel. [[Applause]] Supposedly Minister Szyszko cut out a tree that was her home. The touching story of a squirrel without a house quickly turned out to be a story made up, arranged, false, fake news, which is supposed to mislead and make a lot of noise so that someone could gain from it. The same is true with this proposal. Platform politicians have come up with the idea that on this false story they will build their political capital. [[On a squirrel.]] [[And the trees are standing.]] For several weeks the opposition has been fueling hysteria about the alleged mass clipping of trees. PO plants trees and assures us how much the good of nature and the protection of the environment are at their heart. The representatives of the PO, first to shout, criticize the current Minister Jan Szyszko, are trying to demonstrate how worried they are about the fate of the trees in Poland. [[Eight years.]] So it is worth reminding the opposition, just to you, ladies and gentlemen, how you cared about the environment when you created the government in Poland. So let's start with the trees. Let us remind you of what you have been doing in this case for years of your governments, Platform politicians, but also PSL, because there was a coalition. At the turn of 2013 and 2014 a law was adopted at an express rate, which provided for the normal drainage of State Forests. Over 1.5 billion zlotys were supposed to be in debt by the Polish government from the State Forests. You had nothing to do with the condition and future of the State Forests, you just wanted to make money out of them, not take care of them. When Law and Justice alarmed that it could be an introduction to the privatisation of forests, you only made propaganda movements that were supposed to assure the public that it was different. As a result, in each project you submitted, there were gates that allowed the privatisation and sale of Polish forests. [[That's not true.]] You cared so much about the State Forests. Yeah, that's right. [[Applause]] [[It's a lie.]] [[That's a lie.]] Of course, you didn't deal with the tree disease caused by the printer's root, you didn't do it because you didn't care at all. [[Applause]] All you cared about was profit and how to make money in the woods, not how to take care of them. And what is happening at the moment in the Białowieża Forest is the result of your negligence and you know it very well. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] The same is true of cutting out trees that are not part of the forest. Today we hear that giving Poles the right to decide on trees on their sites is a terrible attempt on nature in Poland. Weirdly, you didn't hear that voice, we didn't hear it when the Platform was running it. And what was the situation then? In the last 10 years in Warsaw alone, with the approval of the government ruled by the Platform, more than 230 thousand were cut. trees. [[Your friend.]] We did not hear the protests of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who agreed to these cuts, or other Platform politicians. There was such a psychic situation that not only houses but also squares and parks were returned to private hands as part of the reprivatization. [[Applause]] That was the case, for example. in the case of a square in front of the Central District Office. But such a policy was conducted not only in Warsaw. The same was true of Gdansk, where only 10. We didn't hear your protest or the voices of outrage at the time. The same was true when the media informed that the company belonging to the businessman, from which the gambling scandal began, built a ski lift, first cutting out a half a hectare of the state forest illegally. [[Applause]] [[Illegally.]] Mr. Grzegorz Schetyn, your leader... [[Gay.]] ...I'm sure he knows the name Richard Sobiesiak. [[Voice from the hall: Lex Sobiesiak.]] It was this gentleman's and politicians' conversations that the platform involved in the gambling scandal showed that there was also a protective umbrella over this illegal clipping. A quote came to history from recorded conversations when one of the Platform's activists provided a businessman: we got you a cut-off, but we can't get you snow. You weren't outraged then. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: What does this have to do with Szyszko?]] You did not resent the decision-makers of your own party. Then breaking the law and evidently illegal clippings and scams were on the agenda... [[Illegally.]] ...and you didn't mind. This is all your hypocrisy. Today you are lyingly alarming that Polish forests are at risk, and in fact you know very well that the new regulations apply only to private parcels and the right of Poles to decide what is happening in their garden. You know perfectly well that Poland is the leader of forestation. [[Not anymore. She was.]] [[Voice from the room: Was.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] You know perfectly well that Poland is at the top of the European forest area. They occupy almost 1/3 of the country's territory. Every year in Poland, foresters from State Forests plant 500 million new trees. You know this very well, but you raise your cry and your lamentation, for in your opinion it will bring you a political advantage. Seizing confusion and causing chaos is your way of doing politics. You're hurting Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Your motion to dismiss Minister Szyszko - I will repeat it again - this is fake news, which you duplicate in different places and on different occasions... [[A fake like a worthless barn.]] ...just to keep bringing chaos and confusion in society. And this is your way of fulfilling your parliamentary mandate. [[And the barn?]] [[And the property statements?]] It's just a political fake squirrel of the Platform. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Such a redhead.]] [[The barn, too?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Jan Szyszko is a valued specialist. It has already been said how much he has done for environmental protection in Poland and how much he is appreciated by a specialist in the world. It was his hard work that led to the conclusions of the Paris climate summit in 2016 being a success of Poland. [[What happened in Brussels on February 28th?]] It is at our request that climate policy must take into account the specificities of individual economies. It was Minister Jan Szyszko's actions that led to the climate package taking into account, among others, the nature of the climate package. Polish coal-based economy, and one of the demands was forestation as a solution which on the one hand will improve the climate, and on the other hand will address carbon reduction issues. This was an action for Poland and our interests in contrast to your omissions on the subject. Remember that in 2008 you adopted extremely unfavourable solutions for the Polish economy, you agreed that the base year to calculate greenhouse gas emission reductions... [[Exactly.]] ...became the year 2005, and not much more favorable for us the year 1990... [[Clean air is better for us.]] ...which was enshrined in the conclusions of the 2007 European Council, which he signed. Mr. President, Professor Lech Kaczyński. You have changed this consciously, to the detriment of the Polish economy. [[Applause]] It was the determination of Minister Szyszko and his undisputed authority in this area that caused the government to win good solutions for Poland in Paris. [[What?]] I know that you can't imagine that you can take care of Poland's interests... [[Please tell me: What is the solution?]] ...that you can take care of the interest of the Polish economy, [[Applause]] I thought you could have rules. You just don't understand it, and you're making conclusions that don't have any grounds, but I think when Mr. Schetina and Mr. Petru finally figure out who's the more important leader of the opposition... [[We know who's more important.]] Why don't you guys get on with your honest work? Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u285	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr. Jan Szyszko, Minister of Environment, please take the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[Well, it's gonna be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this debate today. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your defence and for those words. I have to say, as a man, I felt a little uncomfortable. I think it is men who should defend women rather than men, but thank you very much, Prime Minister. My wife will be proud of me and you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I joined the minister's office, I asked all the clubs in the Sejm to meet with these clubs and tell them how environmental policy should look in the release of the Law and Justice Government. I meant that we should really understand each other and act for the sake of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat this request still, which is why I suggest that we talk about the Białowieża Forest in the Białowieża Forest in the company of people who live there, and already on the basis of the data that have been collected. I just want to say that last year is a complete inventory of the natural state of the Białowieża Forest. We've made inventory of more than 1,400 research areas, stocking everything that's on the surface of the earth as well as underneath. We have a full inventory of over 1,400 species on the map of different forms of protection. I would ask you to take advantage of this so that you can meet in the Białowieża Forest and see how the habitats of Nature 2000 look like and how we must protect these habitats of Nature 2000 in accordance with European Union law. I would also like to say that I cordially invite you to Tuczna, for example for this reason, so that you can see how you can control the absorption of carbon through forests, and not just forests, so that you have the right species composition and ensure proper population dynamics. What I'm saying is that there's been a study going on there for 25 years... [[In the barn?]] ...and these research areas have already been visited by representatives of 67 countries in the world. Therefore, I would be very pleased if representatives of individual clubs, including opposition clubs - in addition to these 67 countries of the world - also planted trees. I'm gonna be extremely pleased about this. You will see a unique apparatus that was built in the times of Law and Justice. And then Prime Minister Tusk himself spoke and boasted about what a wonderful carbon-absorbing apparatus is in the woods, and assessed it as a great success of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Yeah, I'd like to see that. And in the end, I would like to ask you very much not to use the knowledge of tabloids, because it can be harmful to another human being. In my youth, if anyone had an inquiry, he would just come home, knock on the door, come in, say, praise him, or: good morning, take off his hat, get his tea, get his coffee, and explain all the things. I would very much ask you to treat this last saying of mine as an invitation to my house, where we can explain everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws, print No 1385, will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on the draft resolution on the 60th anniversary of the launch of European integration processes (prints 1391 and 1394). I ask Mrs Isabella Kloc... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] There's a formal conclusion, right? Mr Sławomir Nitras with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u288	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I have a very big favor to ask. Using the presence of the Prime Minister in the Sejm, I have a request for a break and to ask the Prime Minister to remain in the debate on the Roman declaration. This morning, the Prime Minister announced that she was going to oppose the content of the Roman Declaration at the European Council. We would like the Prime Minister to take part in this debate in Parliament. You demand that the Prime Minister enhance Parliament's role in decision-making in the European Union. This is another reason why the Prime Minister should increase the role of Parliament and remain in this debate. So that I conclude, Mr Marshal, a minute's break or a minute's break so that you can ask the Prime Minister to stay in our debate, because the role of the Sejm in the decision-making process in the European Union needs to be increased. We agree on that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u289	Thank you, sir. The Member has requested a minute's rest. I'm declaring a minute's rest. [[But I asked you to ask the Prime Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Go, ask.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I specifically asked.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 34 hours 15 min 35]] We are discussing item 19 of the agenda: the report of the European Union's Committee on Affairs on the draft resolution on the 60th anniversary of the launch of European integration processes (prints 1391 and 1394). I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report by the European Commission on the parliamentary draft resolution of the Sejm on the 60th anniversary of the launch of European integration processes, print No 1394. The Commission for European Union Affairs carried out its first reading on 22 March and examined the draft resolution together with the amendments of an editorial nature tabled by the Legislative Office. The Commission adopted the draft in a vote. 19 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 10 against. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for European Union Affairs requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft resolution submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u291	Thank you very much, Member. High Izbo! I'm gonna have to ask for a minute's break because of technical problems. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 37 hours 15 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Isabella Kloc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This anniversary is an appropriate opportunity for the European Union's crisis to talk about the future of Europe, improving the quality of life of citizens, internal and external security. 60 years ago, six countries, France, Italy, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg signed the Treaty establishing the European Community. The base was economic integration. It is the economy that is at the heart of a new unifying Europe. Christian values have also been brought to the fore. A united but independent, sovereign Europe was created. Gradually, the European Union has been extended to 28 countries. Poland joined it in 2004. After 60 years when we are facing such serious problems within the Community, we must ask ourselves: Was this the Union for founding fathers? There is no doubt that the European project requires renewal and reform. We will ask: Why? For many years, the Union has been in crisis. I will remind you of those we all know about: financial, migration, decision-making, competence, institutional. Plus, there's disintegration, separatist movements, terrorism, Brexit, finally deparlamentarisation. Ideas of many speeds weaken the European Union not only in internal relations but also in global relations. These trials must be stopped, faced. Only on a large scale is our strength. This scale is our value. Only on this scale can we be a major global player. That is why Europe's unity is so important. Europe must be one but better. In unity, strength. It's true, old as day. Anyone who draws the opposite vision of the Union today is against the Community, is against the values that lie at the heart of the European Union, against the European Union, against the whole of Europe. What, then, must we do? Reform and renewal, but not cosmetic, but thorough. Deep structural changes, along with the necessary Treaty amendments, are a necessity. The debate must begin without undue delay. This anniversary we're celebrating is the right time and the right time. What do we need? Not the dictation of the strongest states, because it undermines our solidarity, but a change of political practice towards strengthening national and democratic control of the integration process. We believe that national governments and parliaments must be placed at the heart of the European project. The current rules don't work. Pretty yellow cards that don't mean anything to Brussels bureaucrats. One last example. Posted workers. I am talking about the control of the principle of subsidiarity by national parliaments. It doesn't really work. In fact, it's a dead record. The basis for coexistence and cooperation in Europe should be national sovereignty, solidarity, equality of all nations, respect for human rights and democracy. It is on the basis of these principles that all the European institutions should stand. They should act for the good of the citizens, not just for their elites, business deals, international corporations and for themselves. We see the European Union as a great, strong community, which is based on the cooperation of national states with respect for their traditions, culture and national language. The Union of sovereign states translates into practical aspects, EU policies and daily cooperation. At this point I have to talk about a topic that affects Poland very strongly, especially my region, Silesia. Energy policy - generally yes, sustainable development - yes, but it cannot reconcile the vital interests of our country or any Member State, the vital interests of present generations. Poland loses most of the EU's carbon problem in such a sharp setting. This limits our sovereignty and energy security, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union guarantees Member States that they can decide on their own energy mix, i.e. that they can use their resources. In our case, it's coal. In the name of what are the European decision-making elites breaking these rules today? Currently we have technologies that allow coal to be gassed in a domestic furnace, but we are told to close mines that give bread to hundreds of thousands of people in Silesia. The draft regulations for energy and climate policy need to be revised. They do not conform to reality, they discriminate against just such countries as Poland. This is one example of the European Union's action, but it does not promote unity and equal opportunities. We have a strategic programme of the European Union, a plan from Bratislava. On Saturday, EU leaders will meet in Rome. We have defined challenges, threats, with a crisis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the security of our borders - and of that from the east, and of that from the south. However, there is a lack of control over migration and a terrorist threat to society. Yesterday's events in London I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u293	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u294	The death of four people in a terrorist attack is yet another bloody proof that it is high time to correct mistakes in the management of the European Union. It's a good thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u295	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u296	... The European Union also listens to our voice, the voice from Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u297	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u298	One last sentence. The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, does not need two speeds, but one common speed of action and a good change towards a better future...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u300	And I'll end up in the spirit in which...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u301	Madam, you should have finished 40 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u302	...She spoke to Maria De Gasperi, the founder's daughter in Rome. The European Community: So help us God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u303	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome is a moment, first of all, to think about what the European Community is, but this is a moment where we should all send a positive message together in the European Union, first of all, because, thanks to the European Community, through the Communities, the European Union has, first of all, been guaranteed order and security on our continent. First of all, it has been guaranteed that we have common values on which we build. And what does Law and Justice do on that day - on the day when the summit in Rome is to be prepared, where is the declaration to be accepted? The Prime Minister again refers to a hard, negative language, refers to blackmail, says that she will possibly veto the declaration instead of focusing on what is most important for Poles and Poles. And also here, this resolution, in which words such as disintegration appear, talks all the time about crises, and this is really the message that flows from here, talks about the dictatorship, talks about agreements instead of talking about what our resolution was talking about, a draft resolution prepared by the opposition, by the Modern and by the Civic Platform, and by the PSL, where we have made it clear that Poland's place is in the middle of decision-making, that we have responsibility for Europe's fate, that we must show ourselves with a spirit of solidarity, that we must take on our responsibilities too, because the European Union is one great benefit. This negative language is not the message that Europe should hear from Poland. After what the government of Beata Szydło did a week ago when it comes to choosing Donald Tusk, and after these declarations of Beata Szydło everyone sees that only and only this negative message prevails in Poland. And the message should be positive, because we all benefit from European integration. And what was most important in our joint resolution, which you rejected, you didn't even want to have on that day one text that we could all accept -- was about common values, respecting the rule of law, and probably it hurt so much that you didn't want to work on a common text. But it was a day and this is the day when we should have one positive message about Poland being in the middle of a decision-making process and that it will be one of those countries that co-create the Community and not a country that will only test all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u305	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u306	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a really important moment. I appeal to you, really calmly, to take this matter seriously. You received a serious lesson in Brussels during the election. You are really on your way today to getting us out of the European Union, because unfortunately a large part of society is listening to you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This rhetoric of yours is characteristic. We're talking... Madam Prime Minister, who talks about increasing the role of national parliaments in the European Union... During such an important debate, see who's in this room - the Chiefaker, from propaganda. He represents the government. He can't even hear it. It's not a question of propaganda. This is a key issue. You say you're not like Le Pen. But today in Europe, you have a face like Le Pen. The tragedy of Europe is that fortunately Le Pen does not rule France, fortunately Wilders lost the elections in the Netherlands, but the man who has exactly the face of Wilders broken by Le Pen, or Mr Kaczyński, rules in the big European country, which is Poland. Today, Mr Kaczyński, on his way to the UK, is talking about fighting for the status of Poles in the UK. There will be no status of Poles in the UK other than the Lithuanians than the Bulgarians than the Dutch, because in the UK there will be status of citizens of the European Union after the UK exits the Union. Unless you really want to leave, then there will be status of Poland in the UK. Get out of the way. If there is one PiS politician in this room who really wants Poland to be present in the European Union, then you must realise that such confrontational resolutions, such ostentatious disregard of our partners... I am glad that the Prime Minister is proud of Poland and is fighting for Polish interests, only at this table are partners who are also proud of being Spanish, Dutch, Croatian or Lithuanian. And they're proud too. Let's not play those notes. Let's find a deal. Let's look for an understanding. Let's not create such a confrontation. When it is a holiday, as is the Constitution on May 3, it is not said that Poland is evil and has problems. Trouble is solved. Only on this day do we all stress the importance of being together. It's an alphabet. Is that what you need to be taught? Is that what you need to be taught? Please, get out of this way. Do not use the language of confrontation against the European Union, because we are part of [[♪ The bell ♪]] The European Union and we should not be hostile to it. Because we are responsible for the future of the European Union. And we don't want to go the British way. We don't want to go the British way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u307	Please take the floor of Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm surprised at this turbulent discussion, because the celebrations we're going to have on March 25th, this Saturday, actually have only a symbolic dimension, there are no political discussions on this subject. The resolution, which was also examined in the Commission for European Union Affairs, in fact, can be said to have a confrontational note. But let's get back to the beginning. This Saturday, 25 March, we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, documents which are, as it were, the foundation of the present European Union. All these years, the European Union has developed, evolved. Today we are assessing whether it has evolved in this direction, in which, as the rapporteur has said here, the founding fathers have seen it. Not exactly in our opinion. Of course, we will have two different voices in the discussion, some often called Euroscoptic, although I prefer to call them Euro-realistic, because I share these views, as well as the voices of euro-enthusiasts who basically take everything in thoughtlessly and think that only what is good in the Union should be emphasized without looking at what is bad. However, I would consider - 60 years of the Union, but 13 years of Poland in EU structures - what this has given us, Poles, and how we judge it. The polls are clear: Poles appreciate our participation in the European Union well. But what do citizens judge? What exactly do they see? Citizens can see the roads that have been made. Yes, we agree that 20 years ago I was traveling from Przemyśl to Krakow, it took 5 hours, on tragic roads, standing in traffic, and today in 2 hours you can get there by highway. We see beautiful parks, we see renovated schools, we see very nice playgrounds. There is only one small problem: we do not see nearly 3 million citizens abroad. I'll be honest with you from my point of view, because I was also a person who lived abroad for seven years, but I'm I made a choice, and my family, who's gone abroad and hasn't come back so far, did it out of compulsion. Because what we are talking about right now, the Union of two speeds, will push us even more to the margins of the state of low wages, cheap labour, assembly plant, and not a real, real economy producing national goods. 100% as a club, but we personally support the demands of the Law and Justice that the Union should not be agreed on two speeds, it must be strongly opposed. And this, I think, is a key point to which everyone, whether it's law and justice or a platform that also doesn't agree on a two-speed Europe, we should not agree. I'll refer to Mr. Trzaskowski here. All you see is a positive message. Just yesterday, the bombings in London -- I really wouldn't want to use it politically -- showed what a positive message is, for example, the policy of the open door of the European Union. And what happened in London is the aftermath of this policy. [[But Britain is not in Schengen.]] The images we saw in the pictures - the passing Muslim woman, who basically ignored the fact that there was someone bloody next door, but also your former minister, Mr Radosław Sikorski, who carried out live broadcasts. [[A Muslim, too?]] You like to broadcast live, don't you? A live broadcast using someone's tragedy, someone who's dying on the street. At the same time, the British government minister was helping this man. That's the difference between you and the people. The difference in approach to citizens is, for example, how parliamentarians behave, how Prime Minister May behaves, who has not met with President Kaczyński, because it is more important for her to take care of the security of citizens than political games. You would only use it for your own political purposes. In conclusion, Kukiz15 will support the Law and Justice proposed [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u309	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a special date, the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Treaties of Rome. This particular date is the foundation of the European Economic Community, it is the foundation of a common Europe. And there should also be a resolution that we will adopt today. But in order to see how important this date is and how much we have achieved as Europe over these 60 years, it is worth recalling what 60 years before the adoption of the Treaties of Rome was. It was a time when Europe had a series of wars, including World War I, World War II, the Holocaust, the rise of communism, tragedies of people. It was that time. Europe has changed from a continent of war to a continent of peace, building a community, building unity, building solidarity. After 1989, when the Iron Curtain fell, we joined a common Europe, one could say, symbolically we came out of this Yalta division. And this is the dimension that should have this resolution, which highlights what is most important, what we have achieved together as Europeans in building unity, in combating what has been Europe's determinant over the years - that Europe was a continent of war. We have been able to build a continent of peace for 60 years, and this is something that should be emphasized above all, that we should notice in this resolution. The same benefits Poland has achieved from European integration. In this resolution there has been virtually no word at all, and for the last 13 years, since Poland joined the European Union, we have been dealing mainly with benefits. We do not question that there are things in the European Union that need to be improved, but the importance of this anniversary should be special, as should the weight of this resolution. And the message should be positive above all. Another fundamental thing that should take place in this resolution is what is most important for Poles when it comes to the European Union. These are the values that form the foundations of the European Union, such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. This is a civilizational choice of Poles. Poles voted for these values in the referendum. There's no word in this declaration you've prepared about values. Secondly, the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome is a good time to think about how the European Union is going to look, what Poland is going to do in the European Union. For us, it is clear that it is the interest of Poland to be in the decision centre, in the kernel itself. the decision-making of the European Union, not in the periphery. Neither does this resolution, nor does it refer at all to the discussion on the future of the Union. Therefore, this resolution really has nothing to do with the weight of the anniversary that we are dealing with, this is a rather shallow text. The worst part is that in this resolution you accuse the European Union of your phobia towards the European Union, because how else can you define this passage in the last paragraph: the Polish Parliament is in favour of changes that will serve to strengthen unity, solidarity within the Union, stop the processes of limiting sovereignty and ensure equal treatment of the Member States. This is an accusation of your phobia, because you talk about subjectivity all the time, you talk about sovereignty all the time. I don't think you understand what sovereignty means. Sovereignty means effective implementation of your foreign policy, and how you effectively implement foreign policy, you showed at the last summit. In this situation, which concerns an important anniversary and discussion on the future of the European Union, it is a great loss that you did not want to discuss a joint draft resolution on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties. We have prepared as an opposition, i.e. the Modern Platform and the PSL, a proposal for a resolution which was adopted by the panel on. The future of the European Union, which has, first, a positive message, second, stresses the importance of building a united Europe for the history of Poland and Europe, and thirdly, speaks of values. And that's what's important. That's what you're missing. I will read part of our motion for a resolution that you rejected at the committee's meeting: the European Union is not only an area of the common market, but a common value such as solidarity, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. EU values are part of our internal political, economic and social system. The Union is not just a union of countries that work together. It is a citizens' union because it is the citizens who give Europe a mandate to act. In my opinion, in the opinion of the Modern Club, I think that I am also expressing the opinion that we discussed at the meeting of the Panel on Social Affairs. The future of the European Union - on this important day it should be by [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Parliament has a positive signal that we want to build a European Union, a Union based on values. This resolution deviates far from it. The adoption of this resolution by the Polish Sejm will be embarrassing for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u311	I ask Mr Paul to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u312	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On Saturday, 60 years have passed since the signing of the Treaties of Rome, which started European integration. The reasons for the creation of the European Economic Community were many, but the main reason was the fear of the danger of war. The aim was to develop and rebuild Europe together. Over the years, the process of integration of European countries has been growing, affecting further countries. In 2004 Poland joined the common Europe after meeting many formal legal requirements. This process was preceded by a broad debate. Saved by society was one of the greatest achievements of civilization, whose effects in terms of improving the quality of life, European means we feel as Poles every day. I would like to pay particular attention to the numerous systemic reforms that had to be carried out first in order to comply with EU law. Today, unfortunately, after the changes that PiS had made under the cover of the night, our membership would not have taken place. The ruining of the countries we've been building over the last few years is appalling. You don't care about Poles, you don't care about our partners in the European Union, and you even insult every step of the way every European institution, every leader of a common Europe, as long as they point out your mistakes. In your draft resolution you say that there can be no two-speed Europe, but the continuation of your policy will cause us to have no impact on the European Union. Are you trying to get us out of the European Community? Stop waving the wooden sword. Instead of talking, you are creating pseudosociates with the United Kingdom and Hungary, whose result is the election of the President of the European Council with a result of 1 to 27, and you still consider this to be a success, an effective diplomacy. Not much, your foreign minister will be conducting some kind of investigation within the European Union. Such announcements give rise to a smile of pity among EU countries. The Polish People's Party Club was of course, it is and will always be in favour of Poland staying in the European Union, because only strong Poland can function in the European Union, and there is no alternative. The 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome is the perfect time to discuss key European issues. Law and Justice politicians are constantly talking about the need for reform of the European Union. What are your ideas? Do you want to reform the powers of the Council or the European Parliament? What ideas do you have for the euro area? Do you want Poland to join it or not? There are many questions that, unfortunately, we do not know the answers to. The decision to introduce the euro in Poland is a civilization decision, with long-term consequences, similar to the decision to join the European Union in 2004, following a national referendum. This decision will affect our living conditions, working conditions, economic security, as well as our children, grandchildren and subsequent generations of Poles and Poles. High Izbo! Europe must be an alternative to the risks that surround us. The precarious situation in the East, the threat of influx of immigrants - many of the challenges facing the European Union. I hope our voice will be heard, but it must be a rational voice, without undue pride. Only cooperation can guarantee strong Poland in a strong Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u313	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Kaminski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A state from most of the government's palace of holy indignation, when compared to Le Pen or Mrs Le Pen, to Lepenov's politics. But the Americans have this proverb, this saying that if something looks like a dog and barks, it's probably a dog. [[Applause]] You are outraged by comparing yourself to Le Pen, and then the Member goes out into the stands and says that the terrorist attacks in London It's a result. or the outcome of the European Union's bad policy. I will remind you that in our civilization in recent years the greatest terrorist attacks have taken place in New York City. I don't know what it's like on the globe in the president's office right now... [[Moscow.]] ...then all you have to do is look at the globe to see that New York, where the bombings were, is not in the European Union. And now, ladies and gentlemen, why are so many Poles convinced that your policy... For example, these absurd allegations that the Union is responsible for terrorism. In fact, if anyone is to blame for terrorism, it is religious fundamentalism, religious fanaticism, because these people, in the name of God, kill other people, Muslims. I want to say why we are so afraid that you want to get us out of the European Union. Because you have this manner that you very often like to deny something that you then do, because you know that the public is not ready for anything else. After all, in the election campaign you also talked about the fact that you only want to correct democracy in Poland, that you want to correct the system, and today, in front of all Poles, you dismantle this system. [[To correct the Bialowieza Forest.]] And that is why we have no doubt that if you listen carefully to what you say about the European Union, how you feel about it, what arguments you are using, and logically stick to what you are saying, then we should be outside the European Union. You have to have the courage to tell the Poles that that is your goal. But then the Poles will say that they do not want it, and that is why you today want to get us out of the European Union, hiding us. Because you say you're against the Union with two speeds. But let's disappoint that word, what does a two-speed Europe mean? Our friends in the West say this: we want to continue to integrate, as you do not want to continue to integrate, and we want to, it will be Europe of two speeds, because the train will leave and you will stay on the platform. [[Nobody's going.]] The only option standing in front of you is either you get on this train or you stay on this platform and you can be outraged that the train has left. The train should not leave without Poland, because Poland deserves to be in the centre of Europe, not on its outskirts. Of course, you can ironize and you can say... Let us hope that Mrs Theresa May and British conservatives, among whom I have many friends, will change their mind about Europe. One could say that since President Kaczyński has been mostly with Viktor Orbán of all European premieres so far, which resulted in Viktor Orbán converting to Donald Tusk, perhaps after meetings with Kaczynski Theresa May will turn to Europe. This would be a very positive and godly result of the international activity of the President of Law and Justice. I want to say yes, I firmly believe that politicians of Law and Justice were right, who first voted in favour of Poland's accession to the European Union, against the then Polish extreme right, and were right then ruling the Polish state Lech and Jarosław Kaczynski, who signed and negotiated the Treaty of Lisbon, because today, as I read in your draft resolution: not for further European integration... Let me remind you that the Treaty of Lisbon was a step towards further European integration. The Treaty of Lisbon, which was followed by the PiS and which finally, and praise God, ratified, was a treaty which established more and not less Europe. And more, and not less Europe of Poland is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u315	There's less than a minute left. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u316	Thank you, Marshal, that's enough. First of all, I would like to refer to the question raised by the rapporteur, President of the European Union Commission, Mrs Kloc, what was the intention of the founding fathers. Well, it was obvious, just read Schuman, just quote what Jean Monnet said. They have been talking from the outset about the European Federation, about the fact that Europe's countries are not strong enough, independent enough to guarantee prosperity and development for their peoples. And now probably, at 99%, the Sejm will adopt a resolution tonight, which is the mała, which is the European idea, which was at the heart of the Paris Treaties and then the Roman Treaties, is deprived. Therefore, all these Poles who are close to the European Union, not only as a common market, but as a community of values, including the rule of law and respect for constitutional institutions, I invite, I call, let us be together on Saturday 25 March on en. At the crossroads at 3 p.m. 12. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u317	Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the Crossroads it is not a fortunate place to praise the European Union, because there stands a monument to one of the fathers of sovereignty, Roman Dmowski, who definitely did not support ideas such as Eurosojuz. High Izbo! The Union will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, but in fact, if we are talking about this construction of the European Union, which we are dealing with today, we would first have to refer to the Maastricht Treaty and the Lisbon Treaty. These two treaties have created today's European Union in general. It is not true, very often, that the thesis that the Union has been preaching in the last decade or in the last few years has begun to deteriorate. This argument often falls on the part of the Law and Justice - that there is a deepening of centralism, democratic procedures are getting less and smaller national states have an impact on what is happening in the European Union. This is not true because such an objective has been set since the beginning, and at least since 1993, since the Maastricht Treaty. In this sense, the state is talking about an empty collection. Today you're talking about sovereignty. It was necessary to be against the entry into the European Union, like the nationals, to be against the Treaty of Lisbon, just like us, the nationals, and not now to put out a fire in a burning house - because this is the situation. Here the position of the liberal part of the opposition is consistent. Yes, they always said: superstate, federation, surrender sovereignty, be a province of superpower. But the superpower is also a phrase that Jarosław Kaczyński recently used. Either we are a province of superpowers and you accept it, or we are a sovereign state. There's no third option here. Unfortunately, this third option assumes this draft resolution. This draft resolution is some dreaming vision of a Europe that PiS would like, and such a proposal is not on the table. There's two of them. There is an EU elite project that loses its support in its own countries, and whether there will be closer integration or a two-speed Europe, it is not decided at all, because it may turn out in the next year or in the coming years that it is in the West that national forces will come to the vote, which will dismantle the European Union. I hope that happens. So Poland today should not define its policy as an unrealistic dream of a reality that does not exist, does not exist and will not exist. Because either the Eurocrats can actually take Western societies -- I apologize for the colloquialism -- for the snout, to pacify independence and national sentiments, and they will actually do Federalstadt Europe, or the states will be sovereign. These are two real proposals and we should talk about them. Poland should have a foreign policy today, which is geared towards bilateral relations with all countries of the region, with all powers, and should not exclude any option, because the European Union, as proposed in this resolution, will simply not be. That's what we're talking about. The harvest's empty. The National Movement urges that we move on to hard realism in foreign policy, so that we stop swearing at reality. This situation from Brussels, the 27-to-1 vote, is symptomatic here. Why? Because the idea and action, which are of the kind of measures that are agreed bilaterally between countries, wanted to be implemented by means of tools in an international forum. No, it's either on one or it's on the other. The direction in which the EU elite want to follow shows us that we should move very quickly to improve bilateral relations and to maintain them above all with the most important players, with powers. This is today's challenge, which unfortunately this resolution does not take. Therefore, it is important for the government to act consistently, sovereignly, to start making things clear; not to be outraged, not to be offended, not to compare Marine Le Pen to Vladimir Putin, but to start wondering how the future of Polish and European politics, as with movements that seek sovereignty, cooperate. This is the message that should be included here, and unfortunately it is not in this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u319	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please, as the first Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u320	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The European Union is the most effective project to build freedom, peace and prosperity. We should be proud that we have been able to participate in this project for 13 years, not only because we have new roads, highways, concert halls, philharmonics, free market or open borders. Poles just want to be in the Union. And don't even think, Members of the Law and Justice, to take Poland out of this way. [[Voice from the room: Mantra.]] Before the 60th anniversary of starting European cooperation, it is worth answering Poles to the question why you are pushing our country to the periphery of European decision-making. Poles deserve to be at the heart of this decision-making. And end up with a confrontational anti-European policy, because it will lead to the isolation and loneliness of Poland in the European arena. Finally, start a rational, common sense European cooperation policy, because Poles expect this from you and not Polexitu, which is what you are trying to achieve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u321	Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u322	The European Union is the dream of generations of Poles and Poles, dreams of a community. After years of fighting for freedom and forced isolation, we chose freedom and development, openness and rule of law, equality and social justice. We chose Europe. Today we have to confirm it out loud. On 25 March, on the 60th birthday of the European Community, thousands of Europeans in their cities will speak together, testify to their attachment to European integration. This is how the idea of March for Europe was born. Warsaw joined this movement. Meet me at noon on Saturday at pl. At the Crossroads to sing together the Ode to Joy and say together: I love you, Europo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u323	Here you are, Mr Marek Grunkle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the designers. To whom is this draft resolution really addressed? Do you want to go to EU countries? Experience shows that no, because they simply do not listen to you, and the slogans about strengthening unity and solidarity sound just cynical and ridiculous after Prime Minister Beata Szydło lied in the European Parliament about the Constitutional Tribunal after you treat the Venice Commission and after you embarrassed yourselves with voting against Donald Tusk as head of the European Council. Maybe this draft resolution is for national policy. Tell me, what is this supposed to do? You oppose the Union of different speeds, but this is the result of the so-called "forced" by you. flexible solidarity, so that instead of appeals, you may refocus your foreign policy and become involved in solving problems, strengthening the integration process, because this is the only way to avoid the Union's different speeds and regain credibility in the international arena. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u325	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, why didn't the PiS want to agree to a joint resolution at such a historic moment? I wonder if it is because you simply want to keep quiet the great civilization leap that Poland made after entering the European Union. Or do you simply want to ignore the fact that the Union is not only a union of states, but also a union of citizens, Europeans, who can choose the European Parliament, who can act together throughout the European Union, who can have a citizens' initiative, perhaps a European referendum could also be useful? Do you want only a European Union, which would be a union of countries, where only the government can decide what our position is on various issues? You're talking about a two-speed threat, but you're doing everything you can to make sure that Poland gets to the second speed so that it doesn't get to the first speed so it doesn't get to the center of Europe. We have had a historic opportunity for Poland to be in the centre of Europe, to decide its fate, to be among the main quarterback countries, and you are doing everything you can to move Poland to the outskirts, not to enter this first speed, to be outside the euro, outside these decisive centres. You're moving your various phobias here about supposedly losing their sovereignty. It is shared sovereignty within the Union. As long as we are in this Union, we can decide at any time whether we are inside or not and entrust the competences to the EU authorities, common. We have this provided for in our constitution, and so we have done by adopting an agreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and joining the European Union. Why are you now threatening to lose our sovereignty by being in the Union? I look forward to answering these questions and I regret that you are simply rejecting the common recognition of the history and importance of the Union for you because you are going some other, strange way, we don't know where it leads us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u327	Thank you, sir. Mr Antoni Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Isn't it significant that two of the three main founders of the EEC, i.e. Robert Schuman and Alcide De Gasperi are in the process of being elevated to the altars of the Catholic Church, and the third of them, Konrad Adenauer, was considered a man of deep faith? Their idea was to base the Community on Christian values, which guaranteed its proper development. Does today's Union respect these values? Would these founders accept the values presented today by the leaders of the Union? We believe that as soon exalted to the altars, they will ask God to convert Europe and return to the values that have shaped Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u329	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u330	Thank you, Marshal. In fact, to be honest, with all due respect to Mrs Kloc, which I don't think there is, so it's hard to ask her anything... I'll use that time, if the marshal will allow it, and I'll appeal to your marshal once again in the same case. Mr Marshal, this is your call to increase the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union. So? What is the role of the national parliament? There's no one from the government. We're debating a resolution... [[And where are the members of the Platform?]] ...the Polish Sejm on the European Union Summit and this is the debate. This is the role of the national parliament? Is that what you're calling for? The Prime Minister, who completely ignores the Polish Sejm, who does what he wants, does some scouting in Brussels and does not ask Parliament what it wants. What are you bringing this parliament to? You bring Parliament to the role of such a voting machine, because all you want to do here is vote everyone and have... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Shut that screamer up, because no one can stand him anymore. You bring us, Members, the Sejm, to the role of such a razor that will vote for everything in Kaczyński's head, and wants to force the European Union to do so. [[Voice from the room: You don't reach your heels.]] This is the level of democracy you're proposing. In Poland, you are proposing this democracy and the European Union is proposing the same democracy. We fought for free Poland, we fought for Poland in the European Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not to make a farce out of the Polish Sejm... [[When did you fight for free Poland?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u331	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u332	...from the European Union, unhonored. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u333	Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I thank the marshal for paying attention when I was interrupted.]] Thank you. I ask Mr Trzaskowski to speak. Mr Mosiński, please allow me to ask you a question. You're welcome, sir. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u334	High Izbo! The question is very simple. Why, in such an important debate on the resolution all the time, are the Members of the Law and Justice threatening, again speaking about the problems of the European Union, terrorism, and recalling what happened in London to support their thesis? It's obvious that you don't understand anything at all, because it's the United Kingdom that's outside of the EU immigration policy and... [[Not yet.]] ...is not in Schengen. So speaking of problems there, you're just confirming that they have nothing to do with the European Union, they have nothing to do with it. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in conjunction with EU policy. Now I really have questions for you, Members of the Law and Justice, for the applicants. Why didn't you want to work on a joint resolution? Why didn't you want this day, the day that everyone in Poland should accept positively... [[Take it.]] ...was jointly honored by a joint resolution? What's bothering you? Did it bother you to say that the values of the European Union, such as the rule of law, compliance with the rule of law, are fundamental? Did it bother you that Poland's commitment to European integration as closely as possible is fundamental, so that we are at the heart of the decision-making process, and not just like you, stumbling over your own feet, unable to do anything, because you understand nothing from integration, leading us to the periphery? [[What does it mean to do?]] What bothered you, ladies and gentlemen? Maybe you were bothered by your full participation? Because the problem is... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[There's no deal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u335	Please, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u336	...that with such a policy there will be no full participation, because you can't do anything, my dear gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u337	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, and I would like to ask you to allow me - Mr Szulowski! [[♪ The bell ♪]] - to conduct the deliberations calmly. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2004, we joined the European Union. In the preceding referendum, we voted for a vision of Europe, expressed our hopes, individual and collective expectations for the European Union. After 2004, the European Union has evolved, but what is happening today is worrying. The boundaries of decency exceeded the dominance of the strongest countries over others, thus not counting with the voice of some countries, avoiding discussions, taking difficult topics, and instead dealing with substitute topics, which is the most powerful example of dealing with alleged democratic violations in Poland and constant threats. It is unacceptable to impose only a legitimate liberal narrative, to move away from the Christian heritage, a destructive immigration policy threatening Europe's destruction, and recently to formally divide it into better and worse and to establish a Europe of different speeds. And my question. The resolution is de facto in support of the demands of the Polish government which point to the need to undertake reforms of the European Union, to block negative trends and to pursue our national interests hard. It's obvious. Question. The total opposition, will you break through and support the content of this obvious resolution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u339	Thank you. And Mr Konrad Głębocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u340	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I just wanted to answer Mr Rafał Trzaskowski from the shadow office, about which the hearing was lost as soon as it was formulated, to ask whether there could not be a single resolution, but rather to the applicants. Could there have been one resolution, or could these two resolutions have been married, since the resolution for which Members of the Civic Platform are the applicants speaks of ever closer integration? You guys have flip-flops in front of you. The only thing you're thinking about is to continue swimming in this main stream, to continue to salvage Poland, that's the most important thing for you. You're asking about effectiveness today, you're asking about effectiveness? After all, in exchange for patting on the back Donald Tusk handed over PLN 24 billion, Polish taxpayers' money to support a eurozone that we are not members of - just to support richer countries such as Italy. As for our effectiveness, was your government representative ever invited to the G20 summit? Was he invited? [[Of course I do.]] He wasn't invited. Why have you been unable to conclude an agreement on Frontex, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency for many years? It didn't work out for you. Minister Błaszczak made this happen because our government is effective. No one cared about you because you were just hoping you'd get patted on the back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u341	Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Someone has flip-flops in their eyes and even earplugs because you need to know and read and listen. Minister Rostowski - not only the G20, but even the G-7. It is standard that we were at Round Table One when we talked about world security, and today we are not even among the 27 countries deciding on the future, because the Prime Minister says that he will not sign anything, although he does not know what yet. The problem is, I wanted to ask you a question, and today there's no one in these benches. And that's pretty symbolic. If I have to ask a question, I have to say this: the enemy you found in the Pole in the European Union, because there is still a Pole in important structures, and you have an enemy in society because he is protesting against such an uproar. Sovereign rated: Platform plus 10, you minus 5, or today - Platform plus 8, you minus 3. I want you to draw your conclusions because I know the president pulled it out. If the President is in London today and he has negotiated the Treaty of Lisbon himself, I understand that he defends against the exit of Polish citizens. I hope so, because that's the only reason he's there. But there is another one, deeper - the Prime Minister Szydło showed the vote of distrust, because nobody matters to her anymore, even you. If the vote of distrust is a fact, because he represents the government today, the Prime Minister today preferred to defend the clipping against any logic and social protests, that is, it is not there. I invite you to sign a letter, a vote of distrust, from PSL, from Modern. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can still sign, you can still get involved in a meaningful project. This government has to go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u343	Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome. [[One was applauding.]] [[The applause was turbulent, you can write it in a transcript.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution states: The Polish Parliament is in favour of changes which will serve to strengthen unity and solidarity within the Union, stop the processes of limiting sovereignty and ensure equal treatment of the Member States with full respect to the diversity of their traditions and cultures. Question. Is it not a contradiction to strengthen unity within the Union, to stop the process of restricting national sovereignty? The draft resolution also states that the current crisis is caused by the United Kingdom's leaving the Union, the threat of security caused by aggression against Ukraine and the influx of refugees from other continents. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this linguistic fiction over with. International law sets out exactly what people can be called refugees. The countries of the European Union have a problem with illegal immigrants, not refugees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u345	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are accustomed to the fact that all the proposals, all the laws, all the draft resolutions that the opposition will prepare, as in the case of the resolution prepared by the Modern Club with support of the Platform, go to the basket. I don't know if you have any trauma, or you just have an order, because it looks like even without reading, you're saying that you don't. That's too bad. Here, Mr Trzaskowski said there was a chance. In fact, one might wonder if there would be a formula that could show that, however, Parliament appreciates the European Union's contribution to the development not only of Poland but of the entire continent. And one step could be taken to improve the image of Poland, which was thus destroyed and brought to a very low level after the recent successes of Law and Justice in Brussels. We hope that Law and Justice will draw conclusions, stop boxing with the European Union, stop boxing with their own citizens and think about it, and think about whether this policy towards the European Union is really right. And it is regrettable that it will be a resolution certainly passed by the Law and Justice, which will not be a resolution [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish parliament, will be a resolution of the PiS state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u347	Mr Adam Szłapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, it is symbolic that, in such an important debate on a resolution that should support the idea of European integration in general and what we have achieved together, but also express our hopes for the future of the European Union, this debate is so ignored by Members of Law and Justice and by the Government. I have a question for the rapporteur of the committee or for the chairwoman of the committee, why you have not even gone to a bit of trouble and have not tried whether we have actually tried it, but it is, unfortunately, that you are primarily responsible for this in order to come up with a common text of the resolution. We proposed a resolution, we wanted to discuss it. You just voted out, rejected the project prepared by the Modern and Platform, and PSL, by the opposition, and you accepted your project actually about nothing, as if there was nothing meaningful except your phobias in fact in this project. What did you not like about our project? We could have discussed it. [[Everything.]] Is it that the European Union is a community of values? Is it that we want to be at the heart of European integration? Is it that we want to build, decide together on the future of the European Union? Is the quote from John Paul II that Poland is and will be in Europe? What didn't you like? Why didn't you want to at this important moment... [[May you always listen to the Pope like this. That you should always listen to the Pope.]] Mr, really, for once. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me about it. [[But that's the truth.]] What don't you like? Why didn't you want the Polish Sejm to make a joint statement on this matter? [[But that's about it.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have a question for the applicants and for the whole Law and Justice. Do you really want to be in this integrated Europe, and do you really think that if you are in a united Europe, then the method should be blackmail, such as blackmail, which is being applied today by Prime Minister Szydło to the Roman Declaration? [[Come on, give him a round of applause.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u349	Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the President. We all know that Europe is facing strategic decisions. Similarly, Poland faces these decisions, fortunately we are still a member of the European Union. Do you not think that the Polish Parliament should issue one common positive voice saying that Poland wants to be part of the European Union, that the European Union is based on values... [[We'll see how you vote.]] ...and the European Union needs to be developed? Could it not have been the effort to work on this resolution so that all parliamentary clubs worked together and could take it together? Don't you consider this unity worthwhile at such a strategic moment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u351	Thank you. And Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is where you asked what this project was for. Of course it's national policy. I don't think there's any doubt here. Not long ago, Mr Zalek argued on public television that in the Netherlands the populists would take over 100% of the population. Eurosceptical that the European Union is falling apart and it is not worth defending its value at all, but it turns out that in the Netherlands the scheme was completely different and life in the European Union is completely different. As with the Union, you lie about the benefits of Poland's belonging to the euro area. I didn't get a chance to speak anymore, but maybe it's in addition. You're saying there's no economic reason to enter, on the contrary, you see the negative effects themselves. For example, after Slovakia entered the euro area after a year inflation was 0.9%. In the same year inflation in Poland amounted to 3.5%. Similarly, it is unreliable to compare the interest rates of the euro to the euro and to refer to the same mechanisms. This has another very good impact on our labour market and on the market of companies operating in Poland. Therefore, there is a huge request at the end of this discussion: stop creating a misguided vision of the European Union and the euro area in the heads of Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because you can see clearly that it does not help you to build a strong position of Poland either in the international arena or in the heads of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u353	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animals Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animals Insurance (prints Nos 1417 and 1418). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u354	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report in print No 1418 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance, print No 1417. The proposed draft law is related to the amendments introduced by the Act of 15 December 2016 amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. The introduction of printing 1417 and printing 1418, i.e. in the committee's report, proposed amendments to the agricultural and livestock insurance law, will enable the insurance of agricultural crops from one or more types of risk chosen, while maintaining the possibility to benefit from a premium from the state budget at the upper level, i.e. 65% , in 2017, in the most common agricultural crops such as cereals, rape, potatoes, maize, legumes and sugar beets. During the work in the Committee on Public Finances on this bill, Mr Jacek Bogucki, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, gave the interested parties comprehensive answers. As a result of the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, several legislative amendments were introduced to the draft law, which clarify the applicant's intentions. In view of the upcoming deadline for insurers to conclude agricultural insurance contracts in the spring season 2017, it is proposed that the Act enter into force on the day following the date of publication, which will allow farmers to conclude insurance contracts in the spring season on new rules which will be much more favourable to them. The draft law meets the expectations of farmers and therefore the Public Finance Commission asks the High Sejm to approve the attached report of the committee, presented in print no. 1417, the draft law amending the Act on insurance of agricultural crops and livestock and the Act amending the Act on insurance of agricultural crops and livestock. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u355	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement regarding the government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. The aim of this project is to change the way in which the premium payments are calculated. This is to ensure access to agricultural insurance with a maximum of 65% of the State budget subsidies to the largest group of agricultural producers. It should be noted that in 2017 over PLN 900 million of insurance premiums were secured in the budget, which is more than four times higher than in previous years. As the rapporteur, Jerzy Gosiewski, said, the government bill is an important step towards achieving the universality of low-cost and effective insurance, which in the event of emergency events will protect farms from excessive costs or even bankruptcy. The proposed amendments will provide the possibility of insurance of agricultural crops from a package of one or more types of risks selected, while maintaining the possibility to benefit from a contribution from the State budget at the maximum level in 2017. 65% , in the most common agricultural crops, i.e. cereals, potatoes, corn, legumes, sugar beets. This is a step in the right direction. Farmers are waiting for this. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act on the amendment of the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and advocates its referral to further processing with a view to swift adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u357	Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Norbert... Excuse me, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. Excuse me, Member. There isn't. Then it is Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law on the amendment of the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance and the Act on the amendment of the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance. As indicated in the justification for the project, the proposed changes are dictated by the need to allow insurance of agricultural crops or livestock against a full set of risks or from one or more of the types of risks chosen by the agricultural producer, while maintaining the possibility for him to benefit from the State budget from the contributions for the conclusion of insurance contracts. This is an important issue because there are numerous doubts about this. Moreover, these doubts were also confirmed by insurance undertakings which concluded with the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development an agreement on the application of insurance premiums in 2017. The amendment will allow insurance against one or more of the risks selected, while maintaining the possibility to benefit from a contribution from the State budget at the maximum level, i.e. 65% in 2017. However, the opinion issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs raises reasonable doubts. The opinion points out that, although the draft law is not contrary to European Union law, the amendment introduced in such a way and at such a rate could lead to a situation in which those who receive assistance will have to repay it. It is very important to pay particular attention to this issue so as not to expose farmers to unnecessary losses. I understand that this project is very important, but it is also worth noting that this whole legislative process has been going too fast. The project is designed to help farmers, but in the future it is worth giving Members a little more time to familiarise themselves with their records. I recommend voting for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u359	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the procedure for proceding this law is unacceptable. The Commission was convened suddenly, at the time of convening there were no documents attached to the SDI system, we received practically the documents at the committee meeting, and a few hours after the committee meeting we have a report in the plenary room. No professionalism in lawmaking in Poland. But it is worth leaning over the insurance system in Poland, which should be universal and accessible to all farmers, and accessibility means the physical possibility of making insurance under the same conditions, in principle, adjusted by the amount of insurance premiums, to the possibility and sense of insurance for farmers. What is happening today on the crop market under the PiS has nothing to do with what I said. Practically the market is set by insurance companies two per cross, which in principle cover the majority, give those insurances with the subsidies we are talking about today. The October example best illustrates what we are dealing with. The market received subsidies of PLN 108 million. In one of the insurers, the payments split up within three hours. During that time they were bought almost all over Poland. I say: almost all over Poland, because in parts of voivodships or powiats have not been left at all they were made available because there the insurer's sale of these packages was not paying off at all, because the risk of paying compensation was too high. But the insurer should insure all over Poland, especially if the Polish state pays for it, especially where the risk of losses and compensation for farmers is greater. The premium offered by this insurer was already much to be desired at the time, because it was ultimately 50% the amount of compensation. Well, then, is this going to be the way we're going to be able to encourage farmers to use insurance that should be, as I said, common and accessible? The possibility of insurance with subsidies was rejected by farmers who had been insured for the first time in this company, which is at all a curiosity situation which should not have happened at all. Insurer requested payment within 7 days 40% contributions, and then 60% within 4 months, apparently, while earlier farmers had the opportunity to distribute this normally into four instalments, as in any other insurance and in any other insurance company. I will not mention that these subsidies are practically paid to banks that cover the cultivation of their borrowers, and there is really no universal access to these subsidies. The payout system is outrageous. As a matter of fact, farmers do not even know how many State subsidies there are, because this is the distribution of money between the State and the banks and the State and insurers. This certainly cannot continue to be the case, because this, I believe, works very strongly to the detriment of the state and the absence of any such free market and competing insurers among themselves for this pool makes unfortunately these prices will be higher, because it always ends with this. This also shows the scale of profitability of the whole system. I talked about it on the committee, and the Minister answered those questions, too. It turns out that there are years in which we extract 150, 260 or 170 million from the system, and we pay about 360 million of these payments annually. Now we're going to throw 90 million, a total of probably 3 billion over the next few years. So? And the question is, what will be the point of transferring such funds? Wouldn't it be easier and wouldn't it be one thing if you gave some compensation in connection with the drought without the insurance system, because it seems that if you were to calculate the system over the entire five-year-old, you would have come up with a small plus, with very difficult years in terms of the level of compensation, very difficult 2 years, i.e. 2012 and 2016. I have doubts as to how this would have worked out as part of the 10-year evaluation of the operation of this system, whether it would have turned out that the Polish State was actually paying more than the compensation paid to farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so it would turn out that it would be much better to close up, not let anyone earn in their pockets, and simply pay compensation to farmers. These are elements that absolutely need to be improved in this system. I believe that we will improve if we make sure that there is a larger catalogue of insurance companies admitted to the insurance scheme with surcharges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u361	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. [[How many minutes?]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u362	Thank you, Marshal. First, excuse for being late. The meeting of the Committee on Public Finance is held, inter alia. on the income of local government units, i.e. on the Public Finance Act for EU projects. I am moving to the draft law on the amendment of the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance and additional provisions in this respect. This is a government project, which is rare these days. The project concerns the clarification of certain existing solutions that enter into force this year. Thus, the law was passed in December, it enters into force this year and we correct it. We assume that we want to clarify, clarify the rules in force. This could be accepted, but all of this lacks a concept, a final philosophy in the field of agricultural insurance. We have been struggling with this subject for a long time, and we cannot say anything. While the State pointed out, and the discussion pointed out that the number of insurances per year would increase, it is nevertheless worth talking about two segments of compensation for losses in terms of farmers or residents. The most difficult year in this regard was 2010: the flood in 2010 both in terms of crops and in terms of damage to inhabitants of a significant part of Poland, damage estimated in the amount of PLN 10 billion, aid in this respect, a small percentage of insured farmers. There is still no discussion of problems related to farmers' insurance or the imposition of certain criteria by farmers' policyholders. It would be worth discussing how this type of insurance can be disseminated and how the target solution is common insurance of damage or payment of amounts for damage caused. On the farmer's side, we will have universal insurance of the type of motor insurance. And the third thing is, there will be no increase in the premium. On this market, such a model could be tempted, but on the other hand, the lack of a stable pricing policy or indication of how the price for agricultural crops is to evolve and this indicates that there will be a big gap. We can agree that today this solution clarifies the existing rules, but it is not a panacea to solve the problem that the state of the governing coalition and the government, and the Members of the Government today, have definitely spoken about. We did not see the presentation of the government in this regard, which would at least gather your attention at a time when the Law and Justice were in opposition. Nothing like that was born. Thus, for a period of 10 years, this support - as stated in the impact assessment of this regulation - will amount to a total of about 20 billion PLN. There's gonna be backup at this altitude, and that's what we can... Sorry to make a mistake. Yeah, that's millions of dollars. Yeah, that's 20 billion. Of this, farmers will pay a total of 7216 million for their contributions. Minister, I address Mr Bogucki, you have been a member of the finance committee, and we have spoken many times. How can you, if this model works outside the legal solution itself, control that these contributions do not increase so that insurance is disseminated and that all operators in this market set the same conditions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Commission for Financial Supervision cooperates with policyholders and has the possibility to create policies on this matter. We will be in favour of a clarification solution, we are ready to talk about a total or target package for agricultural and animal insurance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u363	Thank you, Member. And Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think that the issue of crop and animal insurance is one of the most difficult problems affecting Polish agriculture, after 1989 practically never completely solved. There has always been this dilemma: how much to finance for the contribution and how to compensate for actual losses when random events occur. Besides, this law, this amendment recently, a few months ago adopted law concerns this narrow segment of crop and animal insurance against random events. I am pleased to see that this share of public, budget, contribution of up to 65% is sustained, but I also hope to see that, so to speak, derogations from the previous rules and an increase in the possibility of making use of this 65% grant at 9%, 12% , 15% where the level of this risk is much higher. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are no simple prescriptions to solve the question of financing crop and animal insurance, because the risk of growing, agricultural production is very high and there is practically no insurance company today that would make money on agricultural insurance. Therefore, these sometimes emerging signals also among farmers, that it is insurance companies or the Ministry of Agriculture that dictate to farmers the conditions under which these agreements are to be concluded, are not true. Although I am opposed to the proposed changes today, I believe they are going in the right direction. Previously, as Minister of Agriculture, I also had support from the PiS club on mutual guarantee fund for insurance of agricultural income and thus market risk insurance. When the last amendment came into force and during the debate on the budget, there was this four-fold higher amount which we could not previously spend on crop and animal insurance at 900 million, then, with these regulations, the legal conditions I said then, also here, from this tribune, that, as in 2006, even though you planned to spend 650 million, and you spent just over 100, so if the rules of insurance, the payment of crop and animal insurance do not change, these 900 million will not be spent. And now I am asking, and I am also proposing, because, of course, all of this is also related to public aid and to the European Commission's consent to this public aid. So here is this thin thread and the element in which the European Commission can have comments on this project. However, I congratulate you on your courage and risk, which is worth taking. But wouldn't it be worth thinking about another matter? Because when I was working on the agricultural income stabilisation fund, my calculations showed that if we were to have start-up funds of PLN 400 and 450 million from the budget, we would have the issue largely resolved over the years, on market terms and not only based on the budget. So, Minister Bogucki, such a good advice maybe a little older colleague: Isn't it worth considering separating this budget, the 900 million? In this version, according to this amendment you will not use it either. It is impossible that it was used by farmers in 2017. So, since you have the will of the Minister of Finance, you have this approval, maybe it's worth going hard right now into the law on the creation of this income stabilisation fund, and some of the funds reserved in the budget are already allocated to the start fund? I know that, at this point in time, a large proportion of farmers would be ready on similar terms as in promotion funds, to participate in the creation, renewal of this agricultural income stabilisation fund. If you offered this as an agricultural resort and today's government, the largest club in the Sejm, what I hope will be supported not only by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u365	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. If there are no more people willing to ask a question at this point, I close the list of people. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski. He's got one and a half minutes to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has indicated that the project is not contrary to European Union law, but it has been stressed that the introduction of changes in such a procedure and at such a rate can lead to a situation where farmers receiving aid will be forced to pay back money. Therefore, my question is: How will the government solve this issue in order to secure farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u367	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, what happened last year, I won't mention it when it comes to field insurance. The money was what it was. 80% field farmers did not insure, they did not make it. You've given too much freedom to insurance companies. We're just talking about field insurance, and I don't touch business animal insurance cases anymore, where they require far more money. You know very well that this topic lies entirely in terms of insurance. Farmers are not interested in this system as it has been so far. I don't think this system that's being applied right now is gonna do much for us either. What my friend Sawicki said is necessary to introduce from my practical point of view. Otherwise, you can't handle it. These measures need to be increased, separated and directed in a completely different way. All practice so far leads to the fact that although the state budget increases its share from 50% to 65%. Last year, the practice of the freedom of insurance companies, and there are not many of them, because there are only three, including two leading ones, caused that, although there was a larger share, the farmer's contribution was at a risk of more than three or four times. It can't be, they can't have that kind of freedom. Surely there will be a decree by the Minister of Agriculture for this law and it must see this coming. The participation and freedom of the company must be completely, decisively reduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to do the same thing that Sawicki's friend said, which is a stabilisation fund... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u369	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the same thread is constantly changing - the safety of our farmers, and given the fact that we have been late every year already, the second season of late payments to farmers, the financial problems of our farmers are growing and the feeling of instability is growing, which is why my question is just... Of course, the initiative itself is commendable, but as usual the devil is in detail, and it would be good for us to have greater stability on the part of the state - precisely, guarantee - that these insurances, firstly, will be safer for our farmers, their offer - such that they will be more willing to use them, and on the other hand... [[More common, more common.]] Universal security, yes. On the other hand, the question of how to eliminate the risk of a possible return of claims from the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u371	Thank you. And I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the availability of insurance. Well, last year, in October these insurances were available almost all over Poland. I'm telling you right now, 'cause not all of it. Crop insurance in particular in Warmińsko-Mazurskie and in some Kujawsko-Pomorskie powiats and some powiats in Wielkopolska were not available. As a result of the fact that a draft law has appeared, the State amends these rules. I wanted to ask and ask the Minister here to declare that this will be available to everyone, not only to the chosen ones, but to all the farmers, in all the counties, in all the places where it will be necessary. I would very much ask that the Minister and in the form of an answer, but also a declaration here from the Parliamentary Speaker say this to farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u373	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a brief question for the rapporteur: Was there a notification in the Committee on Public Finance? And the second question is, could you clarify because one of the previous speakers was talking about the amount of PLN 90 million? I'd like an explanation, possibly a corrigendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u375	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. In that case, please take the floor of Minister Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs for their questions, for their comments, but also for their support for this solution and understanding for the mode that was really very important to us, but it is especially important for Polish farmers to be able to cover themselves as much as possible this year, even in the spring, for the effects of spring frosts. To answer the questions, I would like to assure you that none of the Polish farmers is threatened with a refund. As soon as the insurance payments are made, I assure you that this solution will be notified. We have notified to the European Commission the intention to start the programme in a revised version from 1 April this year, and at the same time it must be remembered that these changes are only technical changes, because we do not change either the amount of aid from the state budget or the level of subsidies, i.e. the 65% which were already notified in 2015 and last year notified an amendment to that programme. So that there is no fear of anything threatening, but as regards the issues that the Member has spoken about, and before that, the Minister, the Stabilisation Fund is a project that is a little bit separate from the case we are talking about, i.e. insurance related to various types of disasters. However, we have started working on the introduction of the stabilisation fund, last year we proposed a solution to social organisations and it was farmers' organisations who asked that this fund should not be created at a time when agricultural products were so low in almost every market, that this is not the moment when farmers are able to start creating such a fund. I would like to remind you that, according to European law, such a fund can be financed, but only at the stage of payment of compensation and not at the stage of its creation. That is why we have proposed that this fund should be created with a contribution from the state budget, of course, if necessary, at 65% But this 35%, this start would have to be collected from farmers' contributions. We're talking about how this fund is supposed to look. Some associations of certain agricultural sectors considered that they were not interested at all in such a fund that they wanted to operate in their sector on their own responsibility. So we're still working on it, and we're not leaving them. Of course, if they come to the end, we'll be the project. also present to the High House. With regard to the limitation of freedom for insurance funds, this limitation is the thresholds that we have introduced, the 9, 12, 19%. [[But the risks go up.]] At the moment, we will ease these thresholds a bit, because last year and the year 2015 were years after the drought mentioned earlier years, after 2012, subsequent years, in which the amount of the contributions together with the payments from the budget did not cover the compensation payments. The level of compensation paid almost twice exceeded the level of contributions collected together with the payments. For this reason, the rates have increased, so in the case of these two types of damage, i.e. the effects of wintering and drought, we allow these contributions to be slightly higher. In addition, the insurance activity is subject to the control of the Financial Supervision Commission. It is an institution which examines the legality of this activity, compliance with the rules of conduct of this activity. In 2016, there was indeed a shortage of insurance funds. This was the first year when the reserve created in the state budget of a little change in the last few years was used entirely. In 2015, the total amount was not used. In 2016, the funds were used and, at the same time, at the end of the year, we increased this amount and after years, when insurance subsidies were sufficient at the level of PLN 160 million to PLN one hundred and seventy-seven million, 207 million were spent. In 2017, it is over 900 million, so I can guarantee that the funds will be sufficient. I am more in line with Mr Sawicki's view that so many willing farmers may not yet be able to benefit from insurance. On the issue of notification, we explained it in the committee, we talked about how this notification was formulated in this way. And it's just a technical change that we don't have any concerns here. The amount of 90 million or was misinterpreted or... That's over 900 million, so that's four-and-a-half times the amount planned last year. Thank you again for supporting this project on behalf of Polish farmers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u377	Please take the floor of the rapporteur, Mr Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u378	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, During the work of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr Jacek Bogucki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, replied in detail and in substance. It was said that the aid was notified in 2015 and the amendments were made in 2016 and therefore not de minimis aid, but notification aid. During that meeting, the Sejm, indeed, said that the honourable Member had 90 million. It is not 90 million, it is more than 900 million, and therefore more than four times have been planned in the budget of the European Union. To conclude, I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs very warmly that they will at least not be against the bill, which is very expected by Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u379	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo! The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws (Prints No 1274 and 1397). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and some other laws. The Sejm at its 36th meeting on 23 February 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Social Policy and Family Committee, after considering this project at its meetings on 8 and 22 March 2017, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit minority applications at the request of the applicant. High Izbo! The minority proposals that I will mention should be voted on together. They are de facto referring to the extension until the date of birth of the contract of pregnant workers who would have a total period of at least three months to be assigned to temporary work in the employment agency concerned. During the debate on this proposal, the committee adopted a proposal that I had tabled, namely a proposal reducing this period to 2 months. We thought that this proposal was more beneficial for pregnant women. We have also taken this action into the care of motherhood, of pregnant women, who are temporary workers in the temporary employment agency. Regardless of the above, the committee did not, of course, accept these minority proposals... [[Why, of course?]] ...in accordance with the aforementioned Article of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, these proposals are presented to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u381	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, will also be the first to speak at this point. You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Beata Mazurek.]] Then we have a change. Mrs Beata Mazurek, then. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws as set out in the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No. 1397. The draft law contains solutions long-awaited by the environment related to the temporary labour market. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that, to a large extent, these solutions are the result of the social partners' agreement to improve the standards of temporary employment, the conditions of employment of temporary workers and the legal security of employers using temporary agency services. The government in the explanatory memorandum of the bill pointed to the positive aspects of the analytical and expert work preceding the preparation of the project, including in particular the meetings of the trade union and employers' parties in the framework of the autonomous dialogue. The effects of this work have been taken into account in this draft law. Flexible forms of employment - and such must undoubtedly include temporary work - cannot be used in accordance with their purpose and nature. Unfortunately, as the number of temporary employment agencies increases, as well as the number of entrepreneurs using their services, information on the abuse of this form of employment and the non-compliance with the rights of temporary workers is increasingly emerging. My club supports this bill. It contains a number of solutions that should reduce or even eliminate negative phenomena from the labour market. This will be served by rules clearly defining the time limits for the temporary work of both temporary employment agencies and employers. They should eliminate from the temporary labour market the phenomenon of the agencies that were created only to re-direct the same temporary worker to the same employer. Such actions are contrary to the nature of the temporary work, as in practice they make the temporary worker a permanent worker of the employer concerned. The proposals contained in the draft law, which aim at a clear regulation on the use of civil law contracts on the temporary labour market, also deserve support. The use of such contracts is not in itself a reprehensible or illegal phenomenon, but it is important that such contracts are not concluded under conditions specific to the employment relationship and therefore do not serve to circumvent the employment standards. It is also important to support those solutions which ensure more effective compliance with the new rules. In particular, it is about defining a catalogue of offences that can be committed by both temporary employment agencies and employers. It is important, however, that the amount of the fine for such offences is set out in the draft law at the same level as in the provisions of the Labour Code concerning offences against workers' rights. These proposals, which aim to protect pregnant workers in temporary employment, deserve support. Current legal arrangements do not protect temporary pregnant workers, which means that their contracts with the agency are terminated irrespective of the degree of pregnancy. It is unfair to continue to maintain such a legal situation. In this respect, the draft law contained in the committee's report provides for compromises, taking into account both the legitimacy of protecting interim workers during pregnancy and the specificities of temporary work. Temporary pregnancy workers will be protected from losing their job before the date of birth if their contracts with the agency are to be terminated after the end of the third month of pregnancy. Such agreements will be extended until the date of birth. This will include those temporary workers who have at least 2 months' work experience in the agency concerned. As President of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I would like to stress that this proposal is precisely an example of a compromise by all parties interested in the proper development of the temporary labour market, on which appropriate high labour standards should apply and adequate protection of workers doing so. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws and proposes its adoption as set out in the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, published in print No 1397. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u383	Thank you. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Social Policy Committee on the Government's draft amendments to the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. In its assumptions, the government's proposal for amendments to the Temporary Employment Act aims to address the legal gaps used by temporary employment agencies and employers using such services, which undermine workers' rights. Indeed, this is a need because the 2010 amendment did not solve all the problems related to the application of the rules on temporary workers, and a group of dishonest entrepreneurs found further ways to circumvent the law in order to maximise profits. I am talking about a group on purpose, because the data attached to the project does not show the extent to which irregularities occur. So we don't know if we're talking about a few cases or a few thousand cases. We know, however, that the government's regulations will reduce pathologies by employing an employee for years in the same position with the same user's employer through related agencies containing contracts, e.g. for a week. It is quite clear that this is a bending of the rules, and this needs to be changed, which has been advocated by employers' organisations for some time. However, the Act does not only regulate this matter. By the way, further obligations for employers and further powers for control authorities appear in the project. In addition, we are looking at the idea of supporting family-friendly policies, this time financed directly by temporary employment agencies. We're used to the fact that the governing coalition wants to control everything and everyone, so I'm not going to dwell here on the next responsibilities that will force employers to create and store more documents. The case which raised the biggest discussions concerned the obligation for the agencies to pay wages and also the contributions of the Social Security Office for certain pregnant workers, even though there will be no job offers for them. Such regulation is associated with certain serious dangers. Agencies may not want to hire women if this involves a risk of additional costs, or they will switch to safer civil law agreements for them. I would strongly like to stress that the Civic Platform supports the need to support parenthood and increase childhood. However, in our understanding, the measures taken by the government and the parliament should primarily be effective. This matter was discussed during subcommittee and committee meetings. Indeed, the Government has given way to the amendment proposing that the support will apply to workers who have documented at least 2 months of work in the last 3 years. However, we believe that this solution is not entirely satisfactory. In addition, it shows that the designer himself is not entirely convinced how to deal with this particular problem. It is a pity that the government side did not agree with our proposal, to our amendment, which we later tabled as a minority request, which increased this time from 2 to 3 months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u385	Thank you. And Mr Jarosław Porwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u386	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. I would like to dedicate my speech to Mrs Katarzyna Mrzygłocka from the Platform, who was so reluctant to talk about controls. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015. The State Labour Inspection carried out 232 inspections in temporary employment agencies. During 176 of these checks, breaches of the provisions of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers were found. During the 44 checks it was found that the provisions concerning the compatibility of the civil law contract with the nature of the work carried out had been infringed. More data. In 2015, close to 379 thousand. people provided temporary work on the basis of a contract of employment, while under civil law contracts the work was provided by 415,8 thousand, i.e. 53% of all temporary employment agencies. In total, over 370 thousand jobs were carried out in the audited temporary employment agencies in 2013. persons, including more than 134 thousand. under civil law agreements. During the same period, the non-compliance of the application of the civil law contract with the nature of the work carried out was found in the case of 584 temporary workers only in 46 agencies. Let me remind you: we have over 6 thousand in Poland. employment agencies. Once again, I refer you to the ratio legis of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers in the explanatory memorandum of this bill, which has completely become out of control. This law originally provided for a contract of employment as a basis for a legal relationship between a temporary worker and a temporary employment agency, and the alternative use of a civil law contract was only to be possible for pupils, students, pensioners and pensioners. Agreed, Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 allows you to direct people to temporary work under a civil law agreement, but I remind you that this is an abuse form. Let me just remind you that in the literature there were voices that this reference only applies to young people, and the law introduces the principle that an agency with a person employed to direct a specific job for an employer - the user can only combine a contract of employment. The conclusion of a civil-law contract between a temporary agency and a person who is to provide temporary work shall be admissible provided that the civil-law contract is admissible in view of its content and the conditions and circumstances for the performance of the service. If this work is to be carried out under conditions characteristic of the employment relationship under which it is required that the person performing the job is available and his/her personal and organisational submission to the employer, the conclusion of a civil law contract is not acceptable, even if it is the will of the agency and the person assigned to the temporary work. However, in practice, people still provide work, including temporary work on the basis of civil law agreements, because the conclusion of such contracts is cheaper. The consequences of this are that people do not have fundamental rights, such as paid leave or minimum wage. For me, once again, it is ridiculous to use the term: directing to temporary work under a civil law contract. This is an oxymoron, and the state legalizes lawlessness and introduces into the bill, which I will remind you, helping people find jobs on a fair basis. I would like to remind you that the Kukiz Club has long talked about the fact that if you were in power, the Member State of the Platform or the PiS took action to reduce to an absolute minimum labour costs, this problem might not have such a scale, and employers would not have a problem hiring people on the basis of employment contracts. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I submit to the Marshal an amendment to Print Act No. 1274, which aims to restore the Act on the employment of temporary workers of its original meaning and to protect temporary workers from their exploitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u387	Thank you, sir. And I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Augustowska. You're welcome. [[Augustinian.]] Augustine, I'm sorry, Member. [[Augustine.]] Yes, I am so sorry, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. [[Augustine Mr. Marshal in the head.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current temporary employment system is imperfect and allows for many abuses. We believed you were going to take the subject seriously. We need to improve imperfect rules, improve them, not deepen our current pathology. This project, as in the lens, shows the way the ruling party works. PiS receives signals about problems of abuse of civil law contracts, lack of protection of pregnant women temporarily employed. This is where diagnosis is made in a well-functioning country, and the causes of the problem are sought, taking into account the whole system. What's the PiS doing? It goes from signals to inefficient patching of holes. Therefore, the solutions it proposes will not improve the situation. In addition to the good ideas that we have supported from the beginning, how to clarify the obligation to inform temporary agency employees about the terms of contracts and facilitations for foreign workers, there are harmful, completely perverting nature of temporary work. Moreover, the initial provisions posed a serious risk to women in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! With a light hand, you're giving out billions in a populist 500+ program, and here, where real pro-family politics is needed, you're trying to transfer these costs to temporary employment agencies. It's 300,000 today. Temporary workers are women aged 44 years old, which is childbearing age, and they are the ones who are really affected by this problem. The automatic extension of the contract of employment of a pregnant woman employed in a temporary employment agency will result in a reluctance to hire or otherwise attempt to circumvent that obligation. As the name suggests, the nature of the temporary agency is to allow short-term employment depending on dynamic changes in the labour market. The agency must be flexible or they will cease to function. It would seem obvious, but apparently professional politicians who are not used to getting their hands dirty with seasonal work need to be made clear. You're hurting women once again, you're giving them social money directly from the pockets of entrepreneurs, and that's not the role of entrepreneurs, it's the role of countries. The situation of women in the labour market will worsen rather than improve. How many more of these bear favors are coming to us, women, in your governments? Let me just remind you that the solution is at your fingertips. Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Act on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity provides for an allowance of maternity allowance for pregnant women in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the employer. This is a proven solution that applies every day. The Modern Club has tabled an amendment in this respect in the course of its work on the project. We have proposed that, in the case of temporary workers who will be pregnant at the time of termination of the contract with the Agency, this benefit should also be granted. Moreover, in our system there is a benefit for, among others. students or unemployed women, and this country bears the cost of family care and assistance to women who are unemployed. Protecting pregnant women is what we should have in common, not divide, regardless of party membership. Smart system solutions are needed here, but the government, as I understand it, has begun to see that the budget is short of money, and is now trying to charge private operators with these costs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the first reading of this project took place equally four weeks ago, and that its final form, the one we know about today, was only heard yesterday at the committee meeting. Looks like there's more amendments, you want to vote fast, and the bill's due in two months. Where, then, is the time for employees and employers to read these regulations? We tabled an amendment on the extension of the vacathio legis, but it was also rejected. You're trying to get us used to the crazy pace and the rush, with the madness in your eyes, you're realizing your ideas on a cartoon-known principle: before it gets to us, it doesn't make sense. This process of law causes chaos and exposes all citizens to legal mess. And we will not stop calling for serious treatment of the legislative process. The amendment was therefore tabled at second reading. The modern position will depend on this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u389	Thank you, Member. I would ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u390	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, prints no. 1274 and 1397. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and of certain other laws is intended to improve the conditions of employment and improve the standards of temporary employment. It is difficult to disagree with this direction, especially since the proposal also welcomes employers' representatives. Among the proposed changes, particular attention should be paid to two issues. The proposed changes, in the view of the applicants, are intended to improve the market situation for temporary employment agencies, but also to strengthen the position of workers who use their services. We welcome the proposal to eliminate the transfer of workers between agencies, which has so far prevented long-term work with the same employer, and was de facto circumvention of the rules, because today, through a temporary agency, one employer can work for up to 18 months within 3 years. At the same time, the employer will not be able to hire a worker in a position where he would have done the same work as his own employer's employee had previously been fired for reasons beyond his control. The National Labour Inspection is to be responsible for enforcement. Of course, we hope that it will be equipped with additional competences. It is worth noting that it is not possible to focus solely on the introduction of the requirement for employment agencies to have a place of business, because it would not create so-called. Virtual offices. There is still a need to give the State Labour Inspection powers that will help to effectively fight unfair intermediaries. The second important point raised in the discussion is the regulation of pregnant women. The project assumes automatic extension of contracts until the date of birth. There was a discussion with representatives of employers, whether it should be three months or two months. Here there is a consensus between the government and employers. The project assumes automatic extension of contracts until the date of birth if they are to be resolved after 3 months of pregnancy. This will result in the employee receiving the benefit after birth, i.e. the so-called. It's a moustache. The rules also extend the so-called regulations. procedural protection of temporary staff. As indicated, they will be able, like other employees, to choose a labour court competent to deal with their claims against the temporary agency. The proposed changes are seen as a step in the right direction. It is worth remembering, however, that the new rules should not leave any misconceptions and create a state of legal uncertainty for the entrepreneurs who act, Minister, in good faith. The Polish People's Party Club will support the presented project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u391	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement on behalf of the circle in writing. Then we'll proceed with the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki. You're welcome, sir. [[I think he'll be right back.]] When he gets back, maybe he'll ask. Meanwhile, Mrs Lydia Gądek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u392	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Improving employee security? Of course, of course. Motherhood support? All the more reason. But are the solutions proposed in this law sure to improve the safety situation of workers on the labour market in general, in particular women, given the provisions that have already been mentioned several times here, or on the contrary? The transfer of the State's responsibilities to the employer is not our goal, or at least should not be, because we should take care of employers, and the burden of protecting motherhood should rather be translated into the state budget. How many temporary workers are currently employed in agencies? What do you think will be the expected effect of implementing this law? How will the number of civil law contracts for employment contracts change in your forecasts? Is such an effect even anticipated by you? Please provide your calculations and forecasts together with the reasons for these calculations. As much as most people in this room, we are in favour of proceding this bill, but it would be good for you to listen to voices coming from different parts of the Parliament hall and not only, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because they really want to help with the good solutions we're looking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u393	Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Brief question: Will the rules on temporary staff also apply to nationals of non-member states, e.g. Ukrainian citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u395	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In countries with the so-called. well-established democracy employment agencies exist for several dozen years, with us - 14 years. In Sweden there are 500 agencies, in France - 1 000, in Poland more than 6 thousand. Half of them found abnormalities. I have a question: Can the Minister answer the question of why in Poland employment agencies grow like mushrooms after the rain? Isn't it sometimes that we, as legislators, give them the green light on the use of workers, their uncivilized treatment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u397	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing a government draft law on the employment of temporary workers. Although the current situation in the labour market under PiS is the best in the history of the Third Republic... [[Because the platform prepared...]] ...but we would like to ask: Why are we only trying to solve the problems of people employed in such a way today when they had much bigger problems a few years ago? But even with this better situation in mind, it is good that we want to make things right. I am therefore pleased that this law has made the situation of temporary workers who, for this reason, are generally worse in many aspects, clearly improving. It also eliminates the temptation of employers to abuse certain types of abuse. to exempt permanent workers and replace them with temporary employment. The Act also standardizes the activities of foreign employment agencies providing temporary work in Poland. Very important changes concern the standardization of employment of a large number of workers from the eastern border, mostly Ukrainians, in recent years. To those persons because we have seen many different types of abuse. The proposed improvement in the ability to control the work of employment agencies, mainly in relation to social security contributions, should be assessed positively. Allowing the Marshal of the voivodship to obtain information on this subject from the ZUS will greatly improve this control. The possibility for the Social Security Office to provide relevant data on the payers of contributions should also be commended. An important change is the liquidation of the virtual seats of the employment agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Will the proposed changes improve the situation of temporary employees?" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u399	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We seal the regulations that regulate, order, as some say: they civilise temporary employment agencies. If we care about the interests of the employees employed by these agencies, we should also take care of the interests of these agencies, which is to balance the problem, because the agency for temporary work by name itself is an agency which must be very flexible on the market. Therefore, my question is this: Do the rules that make proven 2 or, according to the amendments tabled by the Civic Platform, 3 months of women's work within 36 months of the temporary agency's employment give her 100 percent certainty... What exactly, Minister? If, from the moment of the termination, she is entitled to all benefits, she is entitled to them from the Social Insurance Institution. This is not the cost of the employer, it is the cost of the Social Insurance Institution due to the fact that it had and acquired the right to such benefits. Are they then equal to the amount collected during those 3 or 2 months of employment by the temporary employment agency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or it's $1,000. zł, what did we guarantee in other regulations? Would the Minister like to clarify this further? I know that many women are waiting for this kind of very precise information, which is actually related to these changes in terms of 2 or 3 months of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u401	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the turn of 2008 and 2009 The European Parliament has adopted documents enhancing the protection of temporary agency staff, as well as documents enhancing the protection of pregnant workers in line with the main objectives of the UN. That was target five. I would like to ask the question: How did Poland not implement these recommendations until today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u403	Mr Piotr Uruski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u404	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendment to the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers is intended to improve the standards of temporary employment, improve the conditions of employment of temporary workers and the legal security of employers using temporary agency services. We therefore have a question: Does the proposed amendment to the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers clarify what work cannot be entrusted to temporary workers and under what circumstances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u405	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister about the scale of employment as temporary workers through the agencies. What is the share of employees employed under civil law agreements? To what extent does this apply to women, including pregnant women? Why are pregnant women not covered by State aid and this aid is being transferred to agencies that are not interested in it and are certainly not going to apply it? Thus, the pregnant woman becomes an unwanted employee. This certainly does not encourage women to have more children. I think we should think about how to help pregnant women to get an interesting job and not be used in this job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u407	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The contested law deserves support, but the proposed legislation obliges employers to create further documents that burden them, and it seems to me that this is not very beneficial for employers. It is extremely important to support parenthood, but this time should be increased for women to at least 3 months, as was the case in the proposed amendment. I think it would be much better for women. The provision of temporary work has become widespread and abused, but in the ministry's opinion, will temporary employment agencies be a good solution? Will they do their job? Will temporary workers benefit from this, or will it benefit them? I'm just wondering why this very important bill is being processed so quickly, in such a fast mode. I think she's underpreciated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u409	Thank you. And Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, how are your slogans for civilising the labour market by eliminating abuse of garbage contracts for what you are doing in this project? Secondly, do you know a minister of even one person who actually provided work on a garbage deal? And also from the Members' on-calls, but also earlier, from the councilmen's on-calls - the inhabitants of Koszalin and the surroundings report to me with problems all the time. And I would like to ask you further when the law will improve so that workers will not be exploited. You don't often pay on garbage contracts, you use them, you treat them badly, like slaves. This has to stop. The time has come, and we want to put all these things in one bag and get these young people to earn their pensions. It's a tragedy what's happening in the country. People talk about these problems all the time, and somehow it doesn't get to Parliament. Let us consider together how to improve labour law and contracts so that people can work decently, earn and live decently, so that later, when they receive pensions, they can finally go on vacation with their wife. I've worked 40 years and yet, imagine, I haven't been with my wife. I couldn't afford it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate, although I must admit that for the first time I met with the expression that I had written a bill with madness in my eyes. I don't know if that's a compliment how to take it. Madam President, I think that without madness we are looking for good solutions and this law is going in this direction because, if we have talked about it, we have talked about temporary work many times, we would like to restore this temporary work. And that hasn't been the case until today, and so far it hasn't. We know very well that through unfair temporary employment agencies workers have been employed for many years, even 10, 15 years or 14 years, because that is what the law applies. [[Some employers.]] So much work was done through temporary employment agencies, which shouldn't have happened. And among others. That's why there are these changes. You ask, you say a short period of procedure. In 2014, he was appointed so-called. a round table of temporary work by employers and trade unions. For 3 years this team has been working on various solutions, our government has decided that this must be resolved quickly enough if we want to reduce the pathology in this area, which occurs, among others. That's what you're asking me-- doughnuting a temporary job agency, 6,000. agency, no control over this. This bill, among others. It'll bring it in. We have not reached an agreement on the introduction of bank guarantees, certificates, but we have introduced other solutions, among others. conducted by the Marshal's offices control agencies, paying contributions, other things so that it is not abused. Today, the agency was collapsing without paying the employees' wages, creating another agency. This will be impossible after the introduction of this law. Another issue you're raising - civil law agreements, employment contracts. There were no proposals on our part or on the social side, so that we could completely eliminate civil law agreements. There was no such thing. What's the situation today because you're asking me that? In 2015, there were 416 thousand. employed by temporary employment agencies for civil law contracts, 380 000. There were employment contracts. Completely out of control. That's the bill we're changing. It will no longer be possible for someone to work for a civil law contract and a job contract with the same employer, because today it is. This bill will block it, it won't, and that's the step forward. We may continue to look for even better solutions in the coming years, but there was no mention that we were eliminating civil law agreements altogether. The State Labour Inspection receives new instruments for control. Today, the Social Insurance Institution is a very strong advocate for us. By controlling - and this is also seen in other situations, even in the case of changes to the law - we see where the ZUS will impose... It's about the reimbursement of unpaid contributions, etc. We also hope that this statistics will definitely improve after the introduction of the 13th gold rate and the desiccation of civil law contracts that have been in operation since 2016 with regard to the minimum wage. Because today, civil law contracts will no longer pay off to the extent that they have so far. And checks. Let's see how this instrument works. I believe that if we present you with a report on the implementation of the law in two years' time, the number of civil law contracts will be much smaller, because it just won't pay off. That's the way it is here, I think, the way it works. The question is how many contracts, how many employees. We estimate this, and this is what we reported in the impact assessments at the level of 800,000. Pregnant women, because somebody asked here, like, $2.5,000. It's not like all women are employed by temporary employment agencies or they're all pregnant. Why did our proposal go two months instead of three months? Because this 1 month is really important for first-time employment at the employment agency. Then the 3-month period, if the woman is pregnant, is already visible. It would simply discriminate against such a person, that on the basis that, so to speak, even a visual question, this person would not be able to take up a job. That's two months from here. That's why we've thought it over and for two months, this is the period we're giving ourselves the opportunity to prevent someone from hiring at the last minute. These 2 months are a period of such certainty. As far as she is concerned, she asked about maternity benefits, he is at birth, and before that, when a woman is pregnant and sick, she will get 100%. sickness benefit as a pregnant woman. But we don't assume that all pregnant women are sick right away because it wouldn't make sense if we assumed that. Questions. Of course, this law will decisively reduce the pathologies that occur today. We're introducing normal operating rules. Of course, we know very well that maybe not all issues in one fairly large amendment can be fully secured, but we will see. We also gave ourselves time in the bill to evaluate this bill. I think this discussion we're having... As I say, it has not been happening now, in the last two weeks, but it has been going on for many months, intensively, including with the involvement of the social partners - what are the abuses, what are the examples. You also asked about trash deals. Temporary work, hourly rate, squeezing - all this will cause that such a boom on the so-called. trash contracts or self-employment will absolutely be gone. I've made our proposals. Of course, we will have a committee meeting again because we need to consider amendments, but in general I am convinced that the amendment of this law, which has been developed in a broad consensus between the social partners, the employers' and trade unions' sides, has held dozens of meetings over this period, and there have been a lot of meetings in the recent period, and will definitely improve this situation. I think it will also be a signal to the temporary agency that it is not worth not complying with the rules of law, because it will, on the one hand, be subject to scrutiny, and on the other hand, as I said, here the Social Insurance Institution will be closely involved in the control activity when it comes to violations of rights in temporary employment agencies. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u413	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The debate confirms the need to amend the Temporary Work Agencies Act and to increase the protection of temporary workers who are employed by these agencies. What welcomes is the compatibility of all, including even Mrs Augustinovska, that changes are needed - I am watching the evolution of the Member in the direction of social solidarity, this is a difficult process, but I see progress, which is pleased - as well as the fact that we are able to lean on the situation of temporary workers, especially pregnant women, and thank you very much for this debate. It shows that we can vary nicely. This is what Cyprian Kamil Norwid called for to make a difference nicely. This debate was held in both the subcommittee, the marshal, the High Izbo and the committee in this climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u415	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the committee's report on the government draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. This amendment eliminates many of the current pathologies in the area of the employment of temporary workers. Abuse of the form of temporary work, which is a common practice today, affects the loss of the idea of this work. Thanks to the infamous ingenuity of agencies and employers, employees have been performing their duties for years. either on the basis of a contract of employment, or only for a period of between a few and a dozen months. These infringements make it necessary to make changes. However, as I said in my previous position, my concerns and concerns raised the regulations proposed in this novel relating to the introduction of protection for pregnant temporary workers. I share the view that pregnant women need special protection. Given the current irregularities in the area of provisional contracts, it can be said that the introduction of this protection is simply necessary. However, looking at the situation from the second perspective, we must not forget that we should strive for a reality in which temporary work is actually temporary work. In this case, the solutions originally proposed would, in my opinion, only contribute to the reluctance of employers to employ women in this form and to weaken their position in the labour market. I am pleased that the discussion on this issue at committee and subcommittee meetings was extremely substantive. I believe that the amendment proposed as a result of the amendment to the original form of the amendment, introducing the protection of pregnant women in the event of an earlier minimum 2-month period of employment for the temporary contract, is an attempt to reach a compromise that is worth supporting. It takes into account the need for support for pregnant women without affecting the idea of temporary work as far as possible. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u417	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law (print No 1370). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the proposed law is to transpose Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain provisions governing the enforcement of damages claims for infringement of competition law of Member States and of the European Union, which are covered by the provisions of national law to Polish law. Facilitating victims of an investigation to remedy the damage caused by the infringement of competition law, which is first served by this Directive, is also intended to strengthen the effectiveness of the anti-competitive prohibitions provided for in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the prohibition of Article. 101 concerning agreements between undertakings, decisions of the association of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between Member States of the Union and whose purpose or effect is to prevent, restrict or distort competition within the internal market and the prohibition of Article. 102 concerning the abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position on the internal market or on a significant part thereof to the extent that it may affect trade between Member States of the Union. In view of the specific nature of the subject matter of the Directive, transposition must be comprehensive and cover several areas of law. This applies to areas of civil substantive law, civil procedural law and, as regards the definition of institutions in the field of public enforcement, competition law, but the Directive only harmonises certain aspects of national law in those areas. The proposal therefore proposes a way of regulating a separate law, which will, as far as possible, regulate the issue of damages claims caused by a breach of competition law. According to the government, this approach will best ensure transparency of the legal situation and make it easier to get to know potential stakeholders. The government also proposes that the scope of the future law be covered by all claims for damages caused by an infringement of competition law within the meaning of the Directive, i.e. regardless of the existence of a Union element. In the view of the government, this is not incompatible with EU law and is desirable because it will increase the level of protection of those affected by the infringement of competition law. The law which I have the honour to present to the High House will, in particular, regulate general issues such as: the definition of the scope of the regulation, the basic definitions, matters relating to civil substantive law, such as the principle of liability for the damage caused by the infringement of competition law, including liability to indirect purchasers resulting from the imposition of excessive burden on them, derogations from the principle of joint and several liability of the perpetrators of the infringement, the impact of a settlement with one of the perpetrators of the infringement on the extent of the damages claims suffered against the other perpetrators, the amount and method of calculation of interest on the amount of compensation and the limitation of damages claims for infringement of the competition law. Further, it will also regulate the procedural aspects of claims for liability for damage caused by a breach of competition law in civil proceedings, such as jurisdiction of the court, the possibility of transferring damages to courts for damages caused by the same infringement of competition law for the purposes of their joint examination and settlement, the issue of disclosure of evidence, the extent to which the courts are bound by the decision of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or the judgment of the court concerning the recognition of the practice as restrictive of competition. In inter-temporal matters, it is proposed that the future law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The rapid entry into force of this law is so important that the deadline for its transposition was 27 December. In the view of the Government, the law will bring tangible practical facilitations in the recovery of claims against traders and consumers affected by infringements of competition law, and this will be done in particular by introducing a presumption that the infringement of competition law committed by the infringer is committed by the infringer in accordance with the current rules, and that the infringement must be shown in general terms and must be done by the victim. Secondly, we extend to 5 years the basic limitation period for claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. Currently, in economic relations this term is 3 years. Further, we are introducing a suspension of the limitation period for claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law for the duration of the administrative infringement proceedings conducted by the competition authority. Finally, we are introducing a new institution of evidence, so-called. disclosure of evidence. The victim will thus be given the opportunity to apply to the court for disclosure of the evidence in the possession of the infringer, third party or competition authority. The execution of an order issued by the court will be enforced by execution, and will also be subject to additional sanctions. Finally, we also aim to facilitate the detection by the injured party of the damage suffered at the request of the court. The competition authority will be able to assist in this respect. I ask the High Sejm to support the submitted project. It seems that it is not a controversial project and will serve Polish entrepreneurs well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u419	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law concerns the need to introduce into the Polish legal order a directive on certain provisions governing damages actions for infringement of competition law of the Member States of the European Union in order to harmonise the standards for redress for damages resulting from infringement of competition law. As a representative of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I agree with the applicant that, due to the specific nature of the subject matter of regulation, the introduction of the Directive must be comprehensive. It is therefore important to avoid introducing solutions to make point changes to several legal acts, including the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure. In order to do so properly, it is necessary to adopt a separate law that regulates claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. The implementation of the provisions of the Directive in a comprehensive, separate law will also avoid the difficulties of choosing a legislative act in which implementation of the provisions of the Directive, which are not unambiguous in nature, should take place. At the same time, the choice of such action is conducive to transparency of the legal situation, which implies easier understanding for potential interested parties to seek redress. We are also aware that the idea of introducing the provisions of the directive into the Polish order does not exclude the need for interference in other acts, such as the Civil Code or the Act on the fight against unfair competition and the Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumer Protection. In our view, the bill is consistent and logical. It is prepared in a reliable manner and the proposed changes in other legislation are well thought out. We are also aware that the proposed law introduces far-reaching changes to the rules that currently regulate claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law, which justifies the adoption of the necessary period of vacathio legis. The applicant shall provide for the date of entry into force 14 days after the date of publication, which seems sufficient to us. According to the Directive, the aim of this law is to maintain a balance between the public and private mechanisms for enforcing competition law and to ensure the full right to remedy damage to victims of infringements of EU competition rules. In our view, the law meets the requirements of the directive and therefore as a Parliamentary Club, the law and Justice introduced the bill is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u422	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the proposed law, drawn up on the basis of the principles of the draft law on claims for damages caused by an infringement of competition law, is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014. This applies to certain provisions governing damages actions for infringement of competition law between Member States and the European Union. This Directive summarises nearly 10-year work carried out by EU bodies to harmonise the standards for redress for damages resulting from infringement of competition law and takes into account the extensive case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the private consequences of anti-competitive practices. In the light of the objectives of the Directive, it is intended to strike a balance between the public and private mechanisms for implementing competition law and to ensure that the full right to remedy the damage to victims of infringements of EU competition rules is guaranteed. The aim of enabling an investigation to remedy the damage caused by the infringement of competition law is to strengthen the effectiveness of the prohibitions provided for in Article. 101 and Article 101 102. According to Art. 21 The Directive should be implemented in national legal order by 27 December 2016. Question. Why does Law and Justice go about this after a while? You had a year and a half to implement the legislation, but you focused on dismantling the democratic rule of law and instead of improving the law and helping Polish entrepreneurs and consumers, you are fighting for the lowest possible gross domestic product. Polish competition law introduced during the Civic Platform was effective and the mechanisms for monitoring compliance were functioning in a satisfactory manner. The Act on Competition and Consumer Protection was subject to systematic changes aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of Polish competition authorities, such as the introduction of penalties for natural persons who allowed the conclusion of an illegal agreement restricting competition. New anti-monopoly laws have entered into force. These solutions have helped to better eliminate unauthorised market practices and warn about unfair business activities. The changes in competition law that have been in force since January 2015 have resulted, inter alia. shortening proceedings and extending the limitation period for restrictive practices, which made it more effective to detect unauthorised agreements between traders. The subsequent amendments introduced a two-stage process of concentration and financial responsibility of managers, an extension of the leniency programme and voluntary sanctioning institutions. Returning to the project, due to the specific nature of the subject matter of regulation, transposition must be comprehensive and relate to several areas of legal relations. This applies primarily to areas of civil, material and civil procedural law, as well as to the definition and institutions for public enforcement of competition law, except that the 2014 Directive harmonises only certain aspects of national law in these areas. In order to transpose the Compensation Directive, you are proposing to adopt a separate law that regulates claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law, while consideration should be given to an alternative solution, consisting in making point changes in several legal acts, including the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure. The proliferation of legal acts does not favour the transparency of the system, especially since the use of the concept of comprehensive transposition in a separate law does not entirely remove the need to intervene in other legal acts. In this way, amendments will have to be made to the Civil Code, the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. The Civic Platform therefore requests that the bill be submitted to committee work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u423	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be brief and specific. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to inform you that regarding the government's draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition rights, Kukiz15 does not raise any objections and is as much in favour of referring it to further work as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u425	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll speak a little longer. This law aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, as has already been said many times here. The aim of the Directive is to harmonise the laws of the Member States in respect of damages for infringements of competition law, which results in equalisation of rules for both offenders and victims. It is intended to strike a balance between the public and private mechanisms for enforcing competition law and to ensure full right of redress for victims of infringements of EU competition rules. It is intended to facilitate the possibility of seeking compensation by private law, which will enable optimal, more efficient than only in the public system to satisfy the claims of those affected by the infringement of competition law (may be competitors, suppliers, direct and indirect buyers). Consequently, such a system is intended to reduce the occurrence of such behaviours. The government's law comprehensively regulates the procedure for the recovery of claims arising from a breach of competition law, both in the field of civil and procedural law. Violating competition will respond to the principle of guilt. It is presumed that the infringement of competition law itself is already causing injury. This presumption will have to be overturned by the person who committed the infringement. The same applies also to the presumption of injury. The law also introduces a definition of the cartel into Polish law. In order to maximise the effectiveness of competition law, the Act provides for the operation of a programme to mitigate penalties on a similar basis to those applied by the OMC. The Act limits the joint and several liability of perpetrators of infringements who are small or medium-sized enterprises to victims belonging to their own sales/delivery chain, i.e. only to its direct and indirect purchasers or suppliers, in so far as the relevant market share was less than 5% throughout the duration of the infringement and for which the exercise of joint and several liability on a general basis would constitute an irreversible threat to the economic viability of their activities and would result in a total loss of value of the company. This does not apply to those small and medium-sized enterprises which have acted in a leading role in a breach of competition law or have urged other undertakings to participate in that infringement or have previously committed a breach of competition law established by a decision of a competition authority or court. In terms of procedural proceedings, the right to bring an action will be granted not only to the victims but also with their consent to business organisations. During the consultation of the draft, the National Judicial Council noted that it would be appropriate to grant the same right to consumers, but this comment was not taken into account. The Act also introduces a new tool for Polish civil law in the form of a request for disclosure of evidence held by a third party. In parallel, the Act ensures an adequate level of protection of the company's secrecy. The bill deserves a positive opinion, with two exceptions. The first is not to grant consumers the same rights to bring an action as in the case of business organisations, the second is the lack of consistency in the financial assessment of the effects of the Act. On the one hand, it is proposed to grant additional funds to the OMC for the creation of five posts, training and IT system with the justification that additional employees will be needed to provide adequate assistance to courts, among others. as regards the determination of the amount of the damage, on the other hand, despite the finding of the expected increase in the impact on the district courts, it is not intended to allocate additional appropriations to the judiciary, to training or to the number of posts. However, this law shows that the government, in this case the Minister of Justice, can - I can honestly say that it rarely happens to me - in the case of small-bearing projects politically prepare a law not on the knee, but correct, not containing gross errors, balanced, with complete justification and OSR, after extensive consultation and partly taking into account the conclusions of these consultations. There is nothing left for me to say but that the Modern will be in favour of directing this project to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u427	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the government draft law on claims for damages caused by an infringement of competition law. This draft standardizes liability for damages caused by a breach of competition law and the principle of redress in civil proceedings. The proposal also aims to implement the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on certain provisions governing the redress of infringements of competition law between Member States and the European Union. The Compensation Directive lays down the provisions necessary to ensure that any person who has suffered damage resulting from an infringement of competition law of the European Union or national competition law by an entrepreneur or a association of undertakings, an effective investigation of that undertaking or a link between full compensation for the damage suffered. The Act is also intended to optimise relations between public and private law enforcement mechanisms and to ensure full right of redress for victims of infringements of EU competition rules. The project assumes that the perpetrator of the infringement is obliged to make good the damage caused to anyone by the infringement of competition law, unless it is not liable. According to this provision, the trader will have to prove that he is not guilty. In addition, the draft law provides that the infringement of competition law is detrimental. This presumption is intended to make it easier for the injured party to demonstrate the liability of the perpetrator of the infringement. An important change is to introduce in the Civil Code a provision that the limitation period does not begin and is suspended for the duration of mediation or other out-of-court means of resolving the dispute concerning the claim, unless otherwise provided. In addition, in the event that the limitation is interrupted by proceedings before a court or other body appointed to investigate or enforce a claim of a type or an arbitration tribunal, the period of limitation shall not run again until the proceedings have been completed. The Act is intended to cover the recovery of claims for damages caused by any infringement of competition law, regardless of whether the infringement affects the Union market or only the domestic market. This applies both to restrictive agreements and to unauthorised unilateral practices of dominant parties. The victims of a breach of competition law shall be entitled to full compensation for the damage caused by the infringement, together with interest of a compensatory nature from the date on which the damage occurred to the date on which the compensation was due. The draft provides that cases for the recovery of damage caused by a breach of competition law will fall within the jurisdiction of the district courts, regardless of the value of the matter at issue. This is supported by the high degree of complexity of these cases, which concerns the recognition of the practice as restrictive of competition, as well as their relationship with the public-law enforcement of competition law, as well as the special arrangements in the field of evidence proceedings, which constitute a novelty in Polish civil proceedings. The bill introduces a special, currently unknown in the Polish civil procedure the kind of application, which is a request for disclosure of evidence. In order to provide the injured party with the right to full compensation required by the Directive, it is provided that, if the court determines the amount of compensation at prices at a date other than the date on which the compensation is established, the injured party will also be entitled to interest at the reference rate of the NBP for the period from the date on which the prices were the basis for determining the compensation until the date on which the claim for damages was due. In general terms, the court will also have the opportunity to adjudicate an appropriate sum at its own discretion when strict proof of the amount of the request is impossible or extremely difficult. The draft assumes that the determination of the final decision of the President of the OKiK on the recognition of the practice as restrictive of competition or the final judgment of the court will bind the court in proceedings for remedying the damage caused by the infringement of competition law as regards the finding of an infringement of competition law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, recognizing the benefits of this presentation, is in favour of referral [[♪ The bell ♪]] the project for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u429	Thank you very much, sir. We have four requests for questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Will the proposed law also refer to possible disputes arising from the application of the Cotonou Agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u431	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the new regulations is to hit the collusive business, imposing sufficiently high prices on customers. An example of such activity is e.g. collusion of producer with wholesalers. The proposed rules have financial implications. These are additional expenditures in the field of public finances. In the proposed law in Article. 38 a maximum limit has been set for this expenditure for a period of 10 financial years. The body that will monitor the use of the expenditure limit and the implementation of the correction mechanism will be the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. I therefore wanted to ask whether there are available analyses on the basis of which spending limits of 440 000 were adopted. zł. On what basis was this amount calculated? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u433	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. I already mentioned it. Wouldn't it be worthwhile for the Ministry, however, to consider the funding of the courts? Indeed, these matters will undoubtedly go there, and I think that support such as the UOKiK has been given seems most justified. It was one of the postulates that was scrolling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At this stage of legislation I have two more general questions. The first question actually to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, but I think the Ministry is also competent to answer. Namely, how many disputes or claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law are currently present? What's the scale of the phenomenon? And second question: To what extent will the contested law facilitate the recovery of claims? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u437	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The reading of the draft law, which is currently under discussion, has already confirmed the importance of EU legislation. If the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council had not been applied, there would probably have been no change in the rules on damages for infringements of competition law which are often unreal. Once again, however, our government counts as a timely shift, since, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the amendment of four acts should take place by 27 December 2016 and although the idea of introducing rules is absolutely undisputed, the way in which they are formulated requires a few questions. What political or substantive reasons have decided to extend the presumption of injury beyond what is required by the Directive? Why, with regard to the same activity, the designer in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 uses the term "opinion" [[♪ The bell ♪]] - I'm almost done, Your Marshal - and in the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd term of the post? What is the difference between opinion and position in this case? Why did the designer not explicitly and clearly identify the issue of the retroactivity of the law? In particular, I mean a change in the article. 442 § 1 of the Civil Code and Art. 34 and in part Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u439	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u440	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Whether it concerns CET or not - this is a deal that we do not yet know exactly what it will look like. There the formula of the arbitration court, this investment arbitration, and the Polish government were disputed. He's been very hard on this case. But this is an agreement on trade cooperation between the European Union and Canada, for the moment I do not think there is any connection between the project under investigation and the CETA agreement, especially since what it will actually look like and when it comes in, whether it comes into any closer future, it is still an open question, it is still ahead of us. Too much confusion for me to answer. I don't see the connection right now. As regards the question of Mrs Navel from the Civic Platform on the expenditure shown in the OSR, there are some more than 400 000. per year in a 10-year perspective. Where did this come from? This is because the law imposes specific tasks on the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Implementation of these tasks This is, as has been calculated, the need to employ five employees in the office to carry out these tasks and prepare their jobs. And that's the whole calculation -- the annual cost of living for the employees plus the equipment for their jobs, which makes it a little over 400,000 a year. Other expenditure related to the entry into force of this law, resulting from other reasons, has not been diagnosed and has therefore not been shown in the impact assessment of the regulation. The question of Mr Meysztowicz of Modernity concerning why, since we have already counted the necessary posts in the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, we have not counted how many jobs will be necessary in the District Courts. I could, of course, widen this question by myself, how many more will be needed in appeals courts, how much longer in the Supreme Court, because the cases are big and certainly will be attempted at least to file cassation complaints. This is linked to the answer to Mrs Czernow's question. While we are able to estimate approximately, approximately, how time-consuming the work of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection will be in connection with the Act, we are absolutely unable to give an approximation which would allow us to design some expenditure in the impact assessment of the regulation, to calculate how many cases we can have, and therefore how these cases will translate into the number of necessary judicial posts in the courts which these disputes will recognise. We assume that the number of these cases will not be large, although larger than it is today - I will talk about it in a moment - but how much, this time will show. We are talking about something new on the European Union's scale. It is not a Polish problem that these disputes are few. These disputes are few, because they are insanely difficult to win, especially with the fairly high standard of evidence we have. This means that Polish entrepreneurs or even more Polish consumers have not had such disputes so far. Now they're probably gonna roll, we hope so, they're gonna be looking for protection, but they're not gonna be big numbers at first either. But I, as a judge by profession, am very close to the idea of judicial equipment in connection with new job assignments, although there is too much confusion here on the other hand. It is clear that in this mass, a large number of common court judges, which we have - 10,000. judges - if necessary, we will make staff transfers so that these cases can be resolved quickly, efficiently, for the benefit of Polish entrepreneurs. There's not enough data for today to put into the OSR, and that's not where it's coming from. I immediately answered Mrs Czernow's question. We do not know how many such disputes are because they are registered in judicial statistics simply as disputes for damages, disputes for payment for infringement of competition law. There is no such special symbol, perhaps it should be introduced, but no one has ever paid attention to such a need because of a small number. Perhaps in the future we will introduce it to monitor how this law works. In fact, most of my speech was devoted to how this bill would facilitate the recovery of claims. And the extension of the limitation period, and the introduction of certain presumptions, and the formula of compensation at the discretion of the court, if a strict calculation of the amount of compensation is not possible - as much as could have been done in order to facilitate and implement the directive, we have done so much, all these are things that make it easier for today's redress. Here, business will depend on how much they will benefit from this solution, probably with some caution at first, and then it will become more popular, like any new solution. Ms Gądek's question: Why did we go further with regard to these infringements concerning competition law than the directive required of us? It is because we believe that this is a good direction, that this law will help Polish entrepreneurs to pursue claims in connection with the reprehensible practices of entrepreneurs who have a dominant market position that violates competition law. It is probably very often in most cases foreign entrepreneurs or subsidiaries of foreign entities, but not only. Therefore, it would be illogical and wrong to limit the benefits of the law only to cases which have an EU element. Why should we deprive them of, for example? small Polish entrepreneurs benefit from the existence of this law, if they are exploited, if they are subject to prohibited anti-competitive practices by large Polish entrepreneurs or non-EU entrepreneurs? That's why we went wider. We were allowed freedom, but this is not really accurate. This is the implementation of the directive and it is something else. We believe that this thing is something else that is worth doing, and that is why we have done so in this project. Why are we delaying? I could point out a number of reasons why we didn't make it to December. Firstly, it was during the times of the Civic Platform's rule that the drafting of laws, the legislative procedure in force in ministries, was changed, and the adoption of a draft of assumptions was first introduced, and then the adoption of a specific project, which means that, in fact, certain things are repeated twice to a large extent, and this is all taking place. This takes place especially when we are dealing with a project as complex as this one, which I am presenting to the High House today. These are things - and all the clubs emphasized it - very difficult, very complicated, innovative, but not EU. This is probably the most difficult section of the law or one of the most difficult sections of the law that exists. Whether it's an EU forum, whether it's the United States, whether it's Japan or it's Poland. It's just hard. It's demanding. The legislative task for the Ministry of Justice was therefore demanding. In addition, there was great interest, especially from the social partners. We organised special conferences devoted only to the comments of the social partners - twice: once in the design phase and then at the design stage of a specific project, at the stage when we could present specific provisions. The question was why the concept of a separate law was adopted and not the concept of amending the existing laws was adopted. Because we thought it would be more beneficial for Polish entrepreneurs. This concept of a separate law was adopted even during the time when the Civic Platform was ruled, so it is surprising that this is precisely where the charge falls towards the government, because as the Ministry of Justice, we have not changed this concept, because we believe that it is simply right. And the fact that I'm saying it's hard, it's... What does that say? The fact that, as of today, 10 Member States in the European Commission have notified the performance of their obligations. We have 28 Member States. So I'm not gonna say we're at the head of the peleton, but we're definitely in the first half of the peleton. I think that by the end of this six-month period we are able, as we have written to the Commission, to bring this legislative process to an end by writing explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u441	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 19 April 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday (prints Nos 1402 and 1420). I would very much like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Borowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the resolution on commemorating the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birth. Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn was the Greek Catholic Ordinary of Stanislav. He's a blessed Catholic Church. He was a religious and social activist, but above all he was a advocate of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation. He called for order based on the principles of Christian morality. The future of the Ukrainian people saw in European Western civilization, and his work - it has to be emphasized - carried out in a very difficult period, during a very difficult time, during the interwar period, when Polish-Ukrainian relations were tightened. He observed the Ukrainian people and pointed out that nationalism was a perverted way to prosperity, to the development of the Ukrainian people. The hierarch was a hot patriot. He was also a defender of minority rights in the Second Republic of Poland. He believed that it was the Ukrainian issues that could be solved in a completely different way. His talks with the Minister of Home Affairs, Bronisław Pieracki, were known to indicate how peacefully, based on dialogue, cooperation, he sought to ensure the rights of the Ukrainian minority in the territory of the Second Republic. He was an extremely valued bishop in the Polish Episcopate. He had very good friendships with St. Józef Bilczewski, Roman Catholic archbishop of Lviv. On the other hand, he conducted polemics with archbishops. The whispering Greek-Catholic metropolitan of Lviv, about the danger of Ukrainian nationalism spreading. During the occupation he repeatedly warned against hatred and totalitarianism. On the eve of a bloody Sunday, he addressed the Unich bishops with a proposal for a joint letter that would warn against the crime of genocide. Later he was imprisoned by the Gestapo and also by the NKVD. He died of martyrdom. During the apostolic visit to Lviv, Pope John Paul II personally elevated Bishop John Paul II. Gregory and other blessed Greek Catholics to the glory of the altar as blessed. Earlier, John Paul II repeatedly encouraged the Greek Catholic Church to prepare the beatification process. March 25th this year is the 150th anniversary of the blessed birthday, which is a model of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation. We have an extremely tense relationship with Ukraine at this point, and this is indeed the time when we should show first of all what we have in common, point out such positive aspects of common history precisely so that we are reluctant to enter a completely new stage of Polish-Ukrainian relations from this path. These positive patterns are among others. Commemoration of the memory of Bishop. Grzegorz Chomyszyn. The Committee on Culture and Media has welcomed the proposed proposal. I ask the High Sejm to adopt a resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u443	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u444	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the draft resolution tabled by the Kukiz club 15 on commemorating the memory of the blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this project, which reminds us that Polish-Ukrainian relations are not only the history of conflicts, whose apogee was the Volynian crime of genocide, but also periods of peaceful and friendly coexistence of both nations, the alliance of Marshal Józef Piłsudski and Ataman Simon Petlura and, as a result, the joint fight against the hordes of Bolsheviks and the activities of such people as the heroic Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn. The later blessed Catholic Church Grzegorz Chomyszyn was born in 1867. - so he was a peer of Józef Piłsudski - at Husiatyn. At the beginning of the 20th century he was the rector of the seminary in Lviv, and since 1904 he was the bishop of the Greek Catholic diocese of Stanislav. He was a great advocate of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation on the basis of Christian moral principles. One could say that he represented the western trend in the Greek-Catholic Church, trying to protect the waking national Ukrainian movement from nationalism, which threatened the outbreak of a violent conflict with Poles. Even before the outbreak of World War I, he forbade the faithful Greek Catholic Church from participating in the Orthodox pilgrimages organized by the Moscow pilgrimages. He was also working to avoid accusing Galician Ukrainians, i.e., from Eastern Małopolska, of russianism. He contacted the representatives of the Polish government during the Second Polish Republic, collaborated with the Polish hierarchs, members of the Polish Episcopate, who he was also a member of, in order to protect both nations from bloodshed. During World War II he condemned the genocide of Ukrainian nationalists, and on the eve of bloody Sunday, in July 1943, he proposed to other Greek Catholic bishops a common letter respecting the crimes. He opposed German and Soviet invaders and their crimes against humanity. He was imprisoned by both the German Gestapo and the Soviet NKVD. Finally, he died tortured by the Soviets on 28 December 1945 in a prison in Kiev. The Greek Catholic Holy Father John Paul II encouraged the beginning of his beatification process and it was he who beatified him in Lviv on 27 June 2001. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club obviously supports the draft resolution submitted. March 25 marks the 150th anniversary of the birth of the martyr, blessed Bishop. Grzegorz Chomyszyn, who devoted his entire life to the Ukrainian-Polish Agreement and to defending the Polish and Ukrainian population against the crimes of German and Soviet occupations and against Ukrainian nationalism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A resolution should be adopted on honoring his memory, reminding and setting an example for a model of Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u445	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the memory of the blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday, print No 1402. On the anniversary of the birth of Bishop. Grzegorz Chomyszyn we remember his character, we commend his merit. That is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u447	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Tomasz Romekowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u448	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday. At the beginning I will say that it is a draft resolution of our club, our authorship. Thank you very much to the largest parliamentary clubs: Law and Justice and the Civic Platform for supporting this draft resolution. We also appeal to other clubs for support. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, as well as my predecessors on behalf of the clubs, presented the figure of the blessed bishop. Grzegorz Chomyszyn. I will not repeat this, but I would like to present what we had as an idea. The point is why we tabled this draft resolution. We want a good, good relationship with all our neighbours, including Ukraine - a country, a nation with which we have a common history, a common heritage. We have a lot of historical issues that are unsolved so far, so let's build bridges, build these correct relationships on what connects us, not what divides us. Hence we submit a draft resolution to commemorate the Ukrainian, the hierarch of the Greek Catholic Church and, at the same time, the blessed Roman Catholic Church, the person who was the prophet of his times, difficult times, as Mrs Borowska rightly noted. During his ministry, Grzegorz Chomyszyn clearly defined the threat from this heresy of Ukrainian nationalism, which was referring not to the Christian tradition, the tradition on which he wanted to build correct relations between our peoples blessed Grzegorz, only to paganism, the cult of violence, hatred and murder. He warned the nation and did everything he could so that the crimes of genocide on the Polish nation committed by the Ukrainian people would not happen. He really was a righteous man, hence he was left by our compatriot St. John Paul II was elevated to the altars of the Roman Catholic Church. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I inform you that of course we will support our draft resolution. We thank all the clubs for their support, for building these bridges and presenting such positive relations between our peoples. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u449	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, also the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday. Grzegorz Chomyszn was a bishop in the Byzantine-Ukrainian rite, not hiding his pro-Western sympathies. In 1932, he published a paper in which he argued that the baptism of Byzantium and not of Rome was a mistake, because it made the basic truths of faith not the principles of the faithful in everyday life. I welcome the fact that Mr Kukiz15 wants to honor the fierce opponent of extreme right-wing ideologies. After all, Grzegorz Chomyszyn repeatedly raised the problem of the growing wave of nationalism and, as such, predicted the subsequent slaughter of Volyn. He was a clergyman, but at the same time he was a man of flesh and blood. That's the kind of clergy I like. The Modern Club will support this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u451	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on honoring the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday. March 25th this year is the 150th anniversary of the blessed's birthday. Bishop Chomyszyn was going against the current. His views were not popular among the Ukrainian people and among his fellow believers in Bishopship. He was harassed, ridiculed, in the Ukrainian national press shown as a man conducting hostile activities. After his death, however, the seed of faith sown by him produced fruit, which was to observe for many years the principles of the Catholic faith consisting in consistent Catholicity and not to emphasize the differences of ceremoniality, but to emphasize the unity of Catholicism. To this day, the Diocese of Stanislav is regarded as an area where the awareness of belonging to the Catholic Church and Catholic practices connected with the tradition of union, i.e. joining rituals and traditions, is the deepest. The work of Bishop. Chomyszyna lives, even though he is today an unloved, unwanted, ignored and, you can say, pushed out of public life in the Greek Catholic Church. The hierarchy looks at him with a reserve. You can say that it is uncomfortable blessed. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Fr. Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn was beatified by Pope John Paul II on 27 June 2001 in Lviv, during the Holy Mass combined with the beatification of martyrs of the Catholic Church of Byzantine-Ukrainian rite - the Mass was celebrated in the Byzantine-Ukrainian rite - during the pilgrimage of St. John Paul II to Ukraine. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports the commemoration of the Blessed Bishop. Grzegorz Chomyszyn. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u453	Thank you very much, sir. One person signed up for the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, the question is asked by Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute. [[I've got some more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! The Greek Catholic blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn fully deserved the name of the prophet of Ukraine. He predicted the misfortunes that would come if nationalist hatred developed in Ukraine. But the prophet is one who also warns, and his message is valid today. In the mid - 1930's, he warned his faithful against the hatred that existed in the ideology of nationalism. He wrote: Nationalism began to take on the characteristics of the pagan spirit in Ukraine, for it introduces the pagan ethics of hatred. He commands us to hate all those who are of a different nationality and to forbid us from showing mercy in their misfortune. This - he wrote - is against Christian ethics. But not only did the pagan spirit begin our Ukrainian nationalism. Worse yet, against the background of Ukrainian nationalism [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were signs of Satanism. National chauvinists and short-sighted politicians provoke the wrath of God and are ready to cause fire lava that can completely destroy us from the boiling boiler of the east. Let us read his works and draw conclusions today as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u455	Thank you very much, sir. Would you like to refer? No. I see. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure (Prints No. 1381 and 1396). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Penal Code Act, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 1381. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 16 March of this year, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. At its meeting on 22 March 2017, the Commission considered two amendments to the Senate and the High Sejm to accept both. Let me remind you that the first amendment concerns the question of adding after the article. 156 § Article 2 156 § 2a, which in the original text of the Act reads as follows: If the deprivation of liberty referred to in paragraph 2 concerns a person who is not able because of her age or health, the perpetrator shall be punishable by imprisonment from 2 years to 12 years. The Senate eliminated this amendment to the Penal Code. The second amendment concerned the wording which was introduced in this amendment by the Sejm by determining the state of health, since already in the Penal Code it is the definition of the mental state or physical state, thus the current draft of the Sejm considered that the definition of the state of health also includes the mental state or physical condition, but for reasons, let's say, of a legislative nature, since these terms have already been used and have been the subject of the Supreme Court's judgments on a number of occasions, it was considered better to be determined, i.e. mental state or physical state. This is the second amendment. I ask the High House to take these two amendments into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u457	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the first floor will be taken by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask for both amendments to be adopted by the Senate. I can only add that the current content of the article remains. 156 § 2, i.e. If the perpetrator acts unintentionally, he shall be punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3, i.e. involuntaryness, in respect of that offence, which is defined in § 1 below: Who causes serious injury to the health of the person in the form of deprivation of sight, hearing, speech, ability to bear or other serious disability, severe incurable illness or long-term illness, life-threatening, permanent mental illness, total or significant permanent incapacity to work in the profession, or significant deterioration or distortion of the body, shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a period of not less than 3 years. So this kind of act is a crime. The second amendment concerns a change in the definition of "health status" for the definition of "physical state" and "mental state," which has already occurred in the Penal Code nomenclature so far in force. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that both amendments be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u459	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 supports the Senate's amendments on the harmonisation of the terminology used in the amended legislation, as well as the deletion of the amendments to the article. 156 § 2 k.k., which aggravate the threat of involuntaryly causing serious injury to your health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u461	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club. There isn't. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszik. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will continue with the short form of speeches, taking into account the long working time still today, and let me just say that the Polish People's Party's Members' Club agrees and supports the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u463	Thank you very much. Thank you for such respect for time. It's very important today. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Law on Juvenile Procedure after the Senate passed. As I have already argued in previous positions, the protection of minors under the age of 15, as well as those who are not able because of their mental or physical state, should be a priority for each of us. This is the fate of our youngest members of society, their physical safety and mental comfort must be our concern. The bill clearly indicates that none of us should be indifferent to the child's injury. In the context of the revision of the Act, the perpetrators will have a clear signal that the crimes of children's victims will be severely punished. I hope that the adoption of this project will also raise public awareness of the protection of children's rights. In its amendments to the draft law, the Senate raised reasonable reservations regarding the system of penalties provided for in the Penal Code and the harmonisation of the time limits laid down in the law. The Senate amendments tabled do not change the substance of the project. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote, as so far, in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u465	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! As I said at the time of the adoption of this law, the Civic Platform primarily values the initiative of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child concerning the amendment of the law of the Penal Code, the law on juvenile proceedings and the law of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We are also grateful to the President's office for taking this project to the Sejm. The Senate introduced two amendments during the examination of the law. The reasons for these two amendments appear to be valid and should be adopted. This project is primarily about the well-being of the child, as well as about our adults, responsibility, proper response to situations, behaviours that cause injury to health and which cause that the situation of people of age or of people who are unhelpful because of mental and physical condition causes adverse effects. Thank you again for this initiative. We will support these two amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u468	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Modern Club to pass our opinion on two prints: print No 1381, this is the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Penal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as printing No 1396 containing the report of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications of the said Senate Resolution. The Senate has adopted two amendments that the committee has accepted. I would like to thank you for this considerable perception of the Higher House. The modern will support both amendments. And now a few words about what they're about. Amendment 1 seeks to refrain from the provision amending Article in the context of the current amendment. 156 § 2 The Penal Code, which aims to strengthen the penalty for unintentionally causing serious injury to health. The penalty here for a crime of involuntary manslaughter was, in fact, higher than the penalty for involuntary manslaughter. In this situation, we, as legislators, would actually consider manslaughter to be less important than causing serious injury to health. You can't, of course. this change of value is accepted, for the first one there is a penalty from 3 months to 5 years, and the second one from 6 months to 8 years. This results in a violation of the system of penalties provided for in the Penal Code. This incorrect provision in the law that came out of the Sejm is the result of the non-correlating sanctions threatening for the crime of involuntary manslaughter and the crime of unintentionally causing serious harm to health. The second amendment is an editorial amendment aimed at clarifying and harmonising the terminology used in the amended provisions in order to avoid terminology inconsistencies. We have no doubt about that, for the legislator, by introducing in the article. 189 § 2a a new expression for the Penal Code was not referred to the following articles, in which the words "unhelpful person' are included due to his or her mental or physical state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish legal system must be consistent, in particular with regard to criminal law and criminal policy. Therefore, the Modern Club supports the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u469	Thank you very much. One person came to the question. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15 Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u470	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that the Office of the President of the Republic serves the Sejm and the government in building laws protecting children. I have a question for the law firm, the authors of this law, whether they take into account the possibility of doing this Sejm, who does not notice the horrors called parental alienation by professionals. Does the firm plan to draft a bill that will also penalize this kind of very serious crime against children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u471	The President's representative will speak. You're welcome, Minister. Please, Minister Andrzej Dera.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, this project was created in cooperation with the Ombudsman first with the President's office and then in cooperation with the President's Office with the Ministry of Justice, so that it is not a project that is being done, that is only about preparing a project that will solve one very important problem that has occurred for many years in the Polish legal system. Well, we have signed international agreements in the Constitution, and we are talking here about the international protection of children's rights, that children are under special legal protection. In fact, in the Polish criminal system it was not visible at all. Well, the problem was that stealing material things was just as punished as it was. Beating up a baby, so it was the things that couldn't stand in today's world. That is why this initiative of your Ombudsman was very valuable, because it clearly showed that we as a society in 2017, the Polish Parliament, the President, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and the Ministry of Justice say that the child's life is a particularly protected value, and that today will be reflected in the Penal Code. It'll be very visible, very clear. In my impression, the groundbreaking record in this law is the provision of an article. 53 (2), where there are these general directives on the extent of the penalty, where any offence where the child will be the victim will lead to an assessment of such behaviour. And it obliges this provision to allow the judge ruling the penalty to take this into account and examine in general what the intentions were, whether such a perpetrator knew that the victim was a child. When all this is established, the responsibility of these perpetrators will simply be stricter. And these laws that have been proposed here, they seem to indicate this as a specially protected good, which is the child here. I am very happy and I would like to thank all the representatives of all the clubs for supporting this project, for accepting this project, because I think that each of us, regardless of which side of the political dispute occurs, will be able to say after the adoption of this law, that there has been a very important thing, a very important law adopted, which will actually protect children from that moment. And you don't have to convince anyone in this room that a child is our common value, that children are the value of the whole nation, so that's what we did. To answer the Member's question about this alienation. Parents' contacts - the general rule should be and there is such a general rule that both parents are responsible for the upbringing. When there is a dispute between parents, unfortunately, the child becomes a victim of these disputes and becomes an object where one party wants to prove to the other that she has more rights. This is something that shouldn't have happened. It is a matter of culture, of education and of understanding that although adults argue, children should not suffer from it. And now as far as these relationships are concerned, they're regulated by civil courts. Civil courts, family courts really determine what these educational relationships are, who is responsible, and this is about fair compliance. Then, unfortunately, there are kidnappings, if anyone disagrees, and that's the big problem. We have already had a large conference at the President's Office on this subject, concerning maybe not alienation, but already the consequences resulting from this, i.e. kidnappings. This is a very serious issue and we are trying to do this, but it is not an easy thing because many countries are trying - some have already tried and some, like us, are trying to solve this problem because this problem is going to grow. However, I can assure you here, because I know from the Minister of Justice that the kidnapping case is being handled by the Ministry, and since it has already begun to prepare appropriate rules concerning kidnappings abroad in our country, there has been a combination of this: domestic and foreign, so that it is already done by one entity. As far as I know, these projects are being handled by the Ministry of Justice today. In my opinion, it is to be expected soon that the work will be completed and that the corresponding project will be submitted to the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u473	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws (Prints No 1382 and 1387). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present a report to the committee, and I ask all your Members to speed up, because we have to finish voting and we have a few more laws. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Penal Code and some other laws. The Commission of Justice considered the above resolution of the Senate on 22 March 2017. The Senate made 12 amendments, of which 6, can be said to be of a substantive nature and 6 editorial, standardising the terminology contained in the laws. Amendment 1 introduces a new type of crime involving providing funds for the maintenance of persons, groups or associations that finance the execution of terrorist offences. The activities covered by the ban are to meet the daily needs and financial obligations of those groups which support terrorist activities. The purpose of the criminalisation of such acts is to deprive those who support terrorism of the material basis. This is a clear indication to the public that providing living conditions for those supporting terrorism is illegal. The aim of the two subsequent amendments is to clarify the legal situation of persons and other entities involved in ICT security. An element of these activities is the testing of ICT systems and networks, e.g. by hacking into computer systems. Computer devices and programs are used for this purpose, the manufacture, acquisition, disposal or making available of which constitutes a prohibited act. In order to allow a clear assessment of the legality of the activities of the persons concerned, it became necessary by amending the Article. 269b and addition of Article 269c of the Criminal Code, the introduction of provisions providing for: the exclusion of criminal offences where activities covered by criminal offences were intended to protect the system or the IT network against criminal offences, the exclusion of criminal offences of the perpetrator who, with the prior consent of the Network Manager, checks the security of that system or network, and that action did not infringe anyone's interest or cause harm, the exclusion of criminality of activities not compatible with the system or network manager, if the perpetrator promptly informed the Controller of the risks identified and its operation did not cause damage. Amendments 4 and 9. aim to enable the Police and Military Gendarmerie to use operational control, including in particular wiretapping, in cases of economic offences involving financial market manipulation, abuse of economic confidence and management positions in the economic entity. With regard to the amendments made to the Article. The 20th Senate Police Act has duly supplemented the rules that extend the catalogue of secrets that will be disclosed to law enforcement. Amendment 10 clarifies the amended provision and indicates that in case of suspicion of the offence referred to in Article. The Act of 29 July 2005 on the trading of financial instruments will allow the prosecutor to decide to suspend the transaction or to block an account belonging not only to a natural person but also to a legal person or organization without legal personality. Amendments 5 to 8, 11 and 12 are editorial, clarifying or harmonising the terminology of the amended laws. High Izbo! The Commission proposes that all amendments be accepted, except that Amendment 4 should be voted on together with Amendment 9, amendments 5 to 8 and amendments 11 and 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u475	Thank you very much, sir. On this item, the Sejm decided that it would hear three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I'm asking for time discipline, because we're running late, and we have to do it at an hour. 20 start voting. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak. I'm asking for energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur has discussed this in detail, and I may no longer refer to it. In any case, the Senate has made 12 amendments to the bill. They both aim at better legibility of the law and improve legislative solutions in this law, as the rapporteur said. The Law and Justice Club supports the amendments tabled by the Senate and will vote against the rejection of these amendments. Let me continue with your speech by handing you the marshal. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u477	Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr President, thank you very much. I invite Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Senate has tabled 12 amendments to the Act on Expansion Confiscation, so popularly called. The Civic Platform Club will support eight of these amendments, of which six amendments to such clarification, drafting and two substantive amendments to clarify criminality for checking the security of telecommunications networks so as not to punish in this case. On the other hand, we have doubts about the remaining four substantive amendments against which we will vote. At the same time, I regret that the Senate has not corrected a number of things which raised doubts in the Sejm at the time of the adoption of this law, and therefore innocent persons may also be exposed to the confiscation of their assets or to the collapse of their company in the event of control. The law goes beyond the directives of the European Union here, quite freely interpreting them and clarifying them. Sometimes, as Roman law has already said, it is better to release the guilty if there is insufficient evidence than to convict an innocent. Unfortunately, in the case of this law, there is such danger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u479	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to inform you that of the 12 amendments tabled, we will not support Amendments 4 and 9 because these are further amendments which extend the powers of the successive services, the Police and the Military Gendarmerie as regards the application of operational control. It was very bad because it was another bill that was good at it, but it came out as usual, which is another legal bullshit. It was wrong that three of our amendments were not taken into account in the process in the Seym. These are, above all, amendments concerning the retention of the register of disclosure of banking secrets, the elimination of the fine of a million zlotys, and the possibility of taking property back. Minister, I have one point to make about all this. I'm gonna say this very quickly. So what if we create... Minister, I'd like you to listen. So what if we make the law, the law even, I would say, cruel, if this law isn't for everyone? Well, why don't you explain to me how that might be? I was visiting a regional prosecutor in Katowice asking why he wasn't in prison a fraud who committed a $30 million VAT crime, why prosecutors didn't go to these meetings. It's about executive meetings. The District Attorney on behalf of the Regional Attorney says that the court appoints meetings when they don't have time. So I ask why all these tools, since in Poland we have equals and equals to the law. There are people... I even asked the regional prosecutor in Katowice if the same crook was an employee of the service. Who is he that, five years after his sentence, a final sentence after his cancellation, he's a professional, but he's sick? [[Applause]] I'm asking the Minister. We have increased the punishment for the experts. Tell me how it's been going on for five years that the medical examiners have been issuing fictitious testimonies. [[Applause]] Answer me, or I'd like to know. I'll tell you. Because it's the same D.A. who killed a man when he was drunk. That's why it's happening. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u482	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position towards the Senate resolution on the law amending the Penal Code and amending certain other laws. In order not to extend, half of the amendments concern editorial amendments. Of course, they do not raise doubts. These amendments, which raise doubts about the Modern Posel Club, are amendments 4 and 9. As part of Amendment 4, there is a strong extension of the possibilities of operational control, i.e. wiretapping, also with regard to the Police and the Military Police. I would like to point out that, in this law, very broad competences have been conferred on these two institutions. In addition, the possibility of breaking professional secrecy concerning the next three laws is also extended. So to the eight laws that were before, three more are added to this bill, so we have 11 laws that refer to professional secrecy. This mystery is violated, but there are no safeguards regarding the protection against unjustified use of these provisions to businesses and citizens. Therefore, these two amendments will not be supported by the Modern Posel Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u483	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If I agree to your request, I'm going to shorten this speech. All I can say is that most of the amendments that were introduced by the senators do not raise our concerns. I think the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support them. However, they do not deserve to be supported, as the previous speakers have already said, amendments 4 and 9, because they are going further in the direction that we have warned about in the process of the project, namely the further extension of the powers of the services in the area of their activities in question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u485	Thank you very much, sir. One person came forward to ask a question. I understand no one else wants to ask you a question. I'm closing the list. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. [[I'm coming.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. It's... [[Voice from the room: It is, it is...]] Gentlemen, but really, there's not much time, we don't respect each other. [[Voice from the room: I have very short...]] No, but we're waiting for you. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u486	Of course. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current state of law, courts, prosecutors and police can obtain direct information constituting a bank secret only in connection with ongoing criminal proceedings or fiscal offences against a natural person who is a party to an agreement with a bank. If we make it easier for law enforcement authorities to access this information, what mechanism will protect citizens from abuse? If their handover no longer involves a specific investigation... if it no longer involves a specific investigation, it could become a very dangerous preventive procedure. Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u487	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want to answer the question? You're welcome. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł. Please answer briefly and briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This interference is only at the so-called stage. hit/no hit, i.e. checking whether the person has a bank account, whether he has an insurance policy, so that he does not send this question to many banks. This isn't about checking movements on this policy, bank account movements, absolutely. So that we don't think it's too much interference in these civil rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u489	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson and some other laws (Prints No 1384 and 1415). I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u490	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Health leaned on the amendments tabled by the Senate, having examined the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Patients and some other laws, print No 1384. Two amendments were tabled by the Senate in its resolution. Amendment 1. - in Article. 1 in point 14 in point (a) and the words "third and third" shall be deleted in the amendment order and the words "national consultant" shall be deleted and the consent of the physician referred to in paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the Ombudsman, together with the list of national consultants. 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a. Amendment 2. - in Article. 1 in point 18 in paragraph 1. 1a The words "the determination of a medical event' shall be deleted. The Health Committee has given a positive opinion on these two amendments and is asking for their adoption. I would like to point out that the law clarifies the most important provisions from the point of view of the patient, his safety and his health data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u491	Thank you very much. The Sejm has established that on this item, the agenda will hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u492	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Platform on the Act amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman and some other laws, print No 1384. The Senate has tabled two amendments in the course of its work, which are of order. The Civic Platform Club supports both Amendment 1 and Amendment 2 and will vote against rejection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u493	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since we have already debated and raised no greater doubts about the bill, I will speak briefly. The essence of the project is to clarify the provisions relating to patient rights, in particular those relating to medical records, the powers of the ombudsman and the responsibilities and rules of operation of the voivodship panel on medical incidents. The Act guarantees patients better access to medical records, as well as removes a number of doubts which could be the cause of interpretation disputes. The Senate passed, and the Health Committee accepted two amendments which are more editorial than substantive. The essence of the law and the detailed solutions have therefore not changed. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u495	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, these amendments are editorial, they are obvious, we will support them. On the other hand, I would like to point out that as a Kukiz club15 we are still waiting for real implementation, the actual activities related to what is enshrined in this law in Article. 20, that is, the right to respect for dignity also includes the right to die in peace and dignity. And a little later, we read that the patient has the right to treat pain. Ladies and gentlemen, it's nice that this bill will come into force, while the dying are waiting for medical marijuana. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u497	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party. I see. Switching here. [[Switch.]] Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that both amendments are correct, justified and we will vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u499	Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, club of Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]] Yes, my fellow Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u500	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Sejm has examined this law and I would like to stress once again that it is a very good law, it is a very good step towards protecting the rights of the patient in the Polish health system. The amendments made by the Senate are both substantive and, above all, formal in nature. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u501	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. And here you are, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. Oh, you're resigning, aren't you? Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek does not exist. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the Senate's work on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsman and some other laws, it was considered necessary to amend two amendments to it. However, these are not amendments affecting the initial objectives of the applicants for this amendment or amending its mertorytics. Let me remind you that the aim of this law is to introduce many important and desirable changes to the existing regulations. Among them are a number of clarifications regarding access to medical records, the powers of the ombudsman and the actions of the voivodship panel on medical events. As I said before, all these changes are expected by patients and no one, I hope, need not be persuaded to make them urgently. However, most importantly, the Act provides for an extension of the right to treat pain and an assessment of the effects of this treatment for all patients and not - as yet - only for patients in terminal condition. Bringing relief to every patient should and will finally be a priority. It is not necessary to mention that this will significantly affect the quality of treatment of patients in Poland. The Free and Solidarnia Circle fully supports this amendment together with the amendments proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u503	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. Thank you very much for your cooperation. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the law on mortgage credit and on the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents (prints 1380 and 1393). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the law on mortgage credit and on the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents (prints 1380 and 1393). Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering this law, considered the Commission's arguments on the difficulties of the Financial Supervision Authority to comply with the deadlines laid down in the provisions of the Act for examining applications from mortgage credit intermediaries for authorisation and requests from credit intermediaries and credit institutions for registration during a transitional period due to the expected large number of such applications. In the Senate's view, the Financial Supervision Commission should have 6 months to process the applications referred to from the date of their submission or completion. Accordingly, the Senate introduced three amendments into the text of the Act. The Sejm Committee on Public Finances, after consideration at its meeting on 22 March 2017, agrees with the Senate's position and requests its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u505	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to inform you that the club is in favour of the three amendments tabled by the Senate. Please accept this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u507	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to make a statement on the Senate resolution on the law on mortgage credit. The Civic Platform shares the concerns of the Financial Supervision Commission and we will vote against the rejection of the Senate amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u509	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u510	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the Senate has tabled three amendments at the request of the Financial Supervision Commission concerning the difficulty of meeting the deadlines laid down in the provisions of that Law for the examination of applications from mortgage credit intermediaries for authorisation, as well as requests from credit intermediaries and credit institutions for registration in the transitional period covered by that Act. In view of the expected large number of requests, the Senate considered these doubts justified and gave the Financial Supervision Authority six months to consider these requests. This is the result of the three amendments tabled that we voted on in committee together. The modern one, of course, supports these amendments, so we will vote against rejecting them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u511	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to inform you, like my previous speakers, that Kukiz15 does not object to these amendments. Of course, we support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u513	Thank you very much. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I want to confirm this: the Senate has tabled three amendments, all are justified, extend the registration deadline for mortgage brokers. We agree on these amendments and we will vote in favour of them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u515	Thank you very much, Member. I'm closing the discussion because no one's asked questions. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts (Prints No 1383 and 1388). I would like to ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee. I'm also asking you to cooperate with time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u516	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the System of Universal Courts. The Marshal of the Sejm sent this resolution to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 20 March. Yesterday's committee passed this resolution. It concerns the clarification and distinction between the powers of the President of the Court and the Director of the Court. The Commission of Justice, after considering the resolution, asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u517	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u518	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present our position in connection with the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of Universal Courts adopted by the Sejm. Let me remind you, this is about ordering the judicial administration, separating the powers of the President of the Court and the Director of the Court. This law certainly goes in the right direction, ordering matters of the judicial administration. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the Senate amendment to this law, as this amendment further clarifies the competences that have been allocated between the President of the Court and the Director of the Court. This amendment results in the fact that there should already be no doubt as to the intervention of the Director of the Court in the context of the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the Sejm support the Senate's amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u519	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u520	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the project we're talking about is a harmful project -- we've told you many times -- it's a leap to the positions of the courts' directors, and the courts' directors are a judicial authority. Directors will be directly subordinate to the Minister, they will be able to be appointed and dismissed without giving any reasons. We think it's a bad solution, systemicly harmful. This is the actual stubbornness of the judicial administration, because it is the director of the court who employs the assistants of judges, the secretary, the entire service that surrounds the judges. For this reason, we believe that this is very harmful and should not take place. The Senate amendment is going the right way, she is trying to clarify these competences, so we believe she deserves support, although we still believe that the whole project is harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u521	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, ladies and gentlemen, this project is another project from a series of bad projects. First of all, as the only club from the beginning, we have argued that the appointment of the directors of the courts and the keeping of them in one or another form of subsidiary gives rise to the double power of the company, which is the court. Can you imagine a working company, where there is a two-power office, where one part of the company is subject to one boss, the other one to the other boss? That's the first topic. The second topic, we need to save on the administration, not expand it by almost 400 political positions. If we had given these positions to the assistants of the jury, we would have made some progress. Thank you very much. We will vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u523	Thank you very much, sir. And your Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u524	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We will not support this amendment as a modern one, because it does not change this law in anything fundamental, it does not improve this law in anything fundamental. This law is still unconstitutional because it violates the threefold division of power and subjugates the judiciary, which should be independent, in the form of a judicial body, which is the head of the court, the minister of justice, which is an active politician. And the courts of politics should be far away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u525	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u526	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Senate amendments we're looking at are going in the right direction, but we're all aware that they can't fix a bill that can't be regarded as good anymore. We will therefore support the amendments, while we consider the law to be bad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u527	Thank you very much, sir. One Member, Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, came to the question. I would ask you, Mr Pierce, to ask for a quick question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u528	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the proposal to regulate the procedure for the appeal of the directors of the courts and, in particular, to total deprivation of any influence on this procedure and to refrain from enumerating cases where the appeal is possible. Why legislation is being designed which contradicts the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and infringes the Article. 60 Constitution of the Republic of Poland relating to the principle of the exercise of public rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u529	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 a.m. 20 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] There was a terrorist attack in London yesterday. The result of this act is fatalities and many wounded. Let's celebrate a minute of silence for the victim of this attack. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you. Please remain standing. On 15 March, Wojciech Młynarski - poet, director and singer of the song, satirist, cabaret artist and songwriter died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. The formal proposal was made by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break [[Applause]] so that the government can prepare information and give it to the Sejm about who is conducting foreign policy in Poland and in what capacity Mr Jarosław Kaczyński went to London. [[Touchdown, applause]] You have informed us that this is a meeting of the heads of the two parties. That's the way it is. Jarosław Kaczyński is the head of the party and he met there with the head of the party, but the information he gave after this meeting, as a lively matter, is not about joint action in a faction in the European Parliament, but about government policy. [[Let Rysiek try to speak.]] Therefore, I have a question: Who conducts foreign policy in Poland and what has been found by Jarosław Kaczyński on behalf of Poland? Since we are dealing with such a situation that it is not the Prime Minister, not Witold Waszczykowski who conducts foreign policy, we have a request to the government that Poland at the summit in Rome be represented by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, [[Applause]] Because this is the only politician from your power camp who doesn't need instructions to represent Poland. I don't need an instruction card. He can go there and have some negotiating flexibility. And so Prime Minister Szydło equipped with instructions, with a card with instructions from Jarosław Kaczyński must resort every time to blackmail. [[Voice from the room: You're arrogant.]] And this blackmail makes us alone in the European Union. Therefore, it is in the interest of Poland that Jarosław Kaczyński represents Poland in Rome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But he did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u531	Thank you, Mr President, but I cannot count your speech on a formal proposal. Formal requests may relate only to the agenda of the sitting of the Sejm. Who conducts foreign policy is mentioned, among others. in the Constitution. So there's no need to ask anyone, not even the CEO. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has requested that the agenda be supplemented by points including: - information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the planned decommissioning of mines in Poland, - information from the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski on the cover-up by Prof. Nadz. Dra hab. Mariusz Muszyński information about his service in the interview. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal for information on the planned decommissioning of mines. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the planned decommissioning of mines in Poland will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 207 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal concerning the information of the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator on the cover-up of the information on his interview by Professor Mariusz Muszyński, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 207 Members voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1314. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1314 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please raise your hand again and press the "za" button. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 430, against - 1 Member, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and a law on assistance to persons entitled to alimony. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1343. In this point, the question is raised by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. Question time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In view of this situation, I do not know whether to ask the Minister or your marshal how to vote. [[Okay, don't be silly.]] It is a request that the Ministry, if it can do so, also prepare a project to assist entrepreneurs who, after being punished by the convicted person, will be able to hire him for a longer period of time. Now the situation is that, in this project, you proposed that during the period of employment this support is indeed. It seems like it would be good for this entrepreneur to also have support when he is determined to hire the convicted for a longer period, because there is nothing worse when the person who leaves the penal facility has no means of living and is looking for a job. It seems that if the Ministry had decided, it would have been a good move. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u533	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1343, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 239 votes against - 39, 161 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 1351. No questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1351, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the employment of persons deprived of liberty. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1360. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1360, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. In favour of 316, against - 3 Members, 122 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. We return to item 16 on the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Jan Szyszko, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The majority of the statutory number of Members shall be 231. 173 Members voted against - 262, with 4 abstentions. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Cut him a tree instead of flowers.]] I state that the Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Environment, Mr Jan Szyszko, in the absence of the required majority of votes. [[Jan Szyszko, Stihl's live commercial.]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1362-A. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u534	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, print No 1362-A. The Health Commission, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 23 March 2017, requests that the proposal to reject the draft law be rejected and recommends that 17 amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u535	As we have heard, the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No 1362. In an additional report, the Commission makes a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission, I remind you, requests that this proposal be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're at the moment of the vote to reject the hospital network law. You probably remember your minister, most of you respected him, many of us. Minister Religa, too. He introduced the hospital network law, he didn't have time to do it. Now I'm going to read to you what your minister Radziwiłł said about the hospital network. I quote Minister Radziwill. [[You quote yourself.]] I hope that the present project will divide the fate of the predecessors and never enter into force, otherwise we are threatened with centralism and etatism on an unprecedented scale in any country. Maybe we have time, though, before the whole bill hits the dumpster and eventually compromises this idea to rethink the whole thing. Not much, Minister Radziwiłł said that the main drawback of this project is that it deals with a lengthy description of all medicine and - attention - gives responsibility for the health of the weakest in the hands of the state, as Minister Radziwiłł called utopia. Then which Minister Radziwiłł wrote you the bill? And to make it even more interesting, do you know how Minister Radziwiłł titled this article? The Central Health Committee - that's what he called it. [[Applause]] And today you are building a central health committee at the expense of the health of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want a central airport...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u537	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u538	...central Senate. [[The train station.]] You'll have a central health committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u539	Thank you. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to speak now not on behalf of the Kukiz club15, but on behalf of Polish patients. Is your project gonna make us wait a little longer to see a specialist? No. Is your project gonna make us wait a little longer for surgery? No. [[Yes!]] Will your project reduce the queues in the emergency rooms in hospitals? No. Will your project increase the number of doctors? No. Then where? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Yes!]] Does your project motivate hospitals to better treatment? No. [[Yes!]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Minister, then why are you introducing this bill? For the sake of all of us, I appeal: let us vote against this harmful project. [[Applause]] [[No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u541	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A modern application has been submitted [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to reject this harmful project because it cannot be repaired. It limits the citizens' constitutional right to health protection. [[Just like Modern.]] It divides individuals into worse, worse sort - those that will not have access to public funds, and better sort - those to which the money will influence on a monthly basis. It undermines the key principle that the measures will not follow the patient as before. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the worst - it also quarrels patients with those from public health and those from private health. After all, this project hits the public health care units first and foremost. I want to tell you that in six months you won't have anything to laugh at, when this vile change you're making at this point is going to every health care facility, when it turns out that millions of Poles won't be able to heal where they're healing today, that they're going to be forced to look for individuals who have contracts. That is why make up your mind, because in your environment too, this project raises huge doubts. Even the rapporteur had problems expressing what opinion the committee had given [[♪ The bell ♪]] to that conclusion. Let's throw this project in the trash... [[Voice from the room: He didn't have a problem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u543	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u544	...as Minister Radziwiłł said ten years ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u545	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition proposes to reject this project, but I ask what you propose in return. [[Nothing!]] Is Krosno Odrzańskie? Let me remind you: the hospital was first commercialized, later privatized, and finally liquidated. Local governments are fighting to get this hospital back. Is this patient safety? Konstanty Radziwiłł's project, the Minister of Health, guarantees the financial stability of hospitals. Financial stability guarantees stability of access to medical services. You're freaking out about the lack of access to rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is online, it is attached to the hospital security system to the extent that these hospitals had it, and little of that, we open the market, we open it, because the last contract took place in 2012. You're scaring the cardiac patients. That's not true. Cardiology patients in the big, third-largest voivodeship city have three intervention cardiology studios. WHO - The World Health Organization - says that at 250 and 300 thousand. patients one facility, that's two too many. Patient, yes, in acute condition, with acute heart attack is provided, but what's next? This system does not guarantee him what the project of the Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł guarantees: continuity and comprehensiveness of services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This patient gets in line after the crash, he's looking for a doctor himself who's supposed to provide him with continuity of care after acute intervention. What's going on?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u547	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u548	He often dies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u549	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, Primum non nocere - first of all, do not harm. That's what I'm asking, and that's what I'm calling for. [[Applause]] [[Central Health Committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u551	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! The project we are presenting today is an important project. A project that's supposed to change something that doesn't work well. I must say that the longer I listen to countries who are against this project, the more I feel that some people are losing their sense of reality because everyone complains about the health system in Poland. [[I was quoting you.]] He is very far from the expectations of all Poles and Poles, both those who are patients and those who work in him, including those who manage institutions in health care. The system's malfunctioning. It's bad because there's been a lot of irregularities going on for years, and it's been decided recently... In the last 8 years before the start of our mission, it has been decided that the state will simply withdraw from this system, because the state ruling before us has decided that the constitutional task of ensuring health protection for all Poles cannot be fulfilled, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. You thought the free market would do it for you. In this free market, in the muddy water that arose in the health care system against the poverty of public individuals, which are important to each of us, and can be critical to those who are severely ill, there have been fortunes in this muddy water, and I have the overwhelming impression that all those who attack the network of hospitals - which is simply a small correction of this system... [[But you're the one who attacked.]] ...a correction aimed at making you take more responsibility for the health care system - that the state simply defends those who do these dark interests in health care who get rich at the expense of hospitals, which are important to each of us, who thanks to this project will be sure that they will survive these difficult years, because we still have some difficult years ahead of us. [[Voice from the hall: Blurred water and a vague statement.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised the biggest club in the opposition is represented by a man who spent three years wasting our time together. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Which led to an even greater decline in health care. [[It's even bigger.]] Who had no idea but to announce various reforms that he had never implemented. I'm really surprised. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] You're asking who we're doing this for. We are doing this for those hospitals that are facing the spectrum that you have set before them. The hospital that Mrs Kopcińska was talking about was a hospital that was public, which was commercialized according to incentives or coercion that you invented, then privatized and then disappeared from the map. Such situations, if we hadn't stopped the commercialisation and privatisation of hospitals, would have been more, and this is what the network is supposed to prevent. A network to prevent public hospitals that are important to all of us today must compete in fratricidal, toxic competition with those who simply do business in health care. And those who protest so strongly against a network of hospitals, either consciously or unconsciously simply defend these dark interests, those bad interests that do not serve patients at all. [[Scandal - what you're saying.]] This bill stabilizes the situation of hospitals and thus secures the interests of patients. Today, for patients, what is most painful, and especially for those who are severely ill, is waiting in queues - in SOR queues, in queues to specialists... [[We'll talk, Minister.]] ...in rehab queues. There's a chance that by the end of this year, the SOR queues will be smaller... [[We'll hold you to that.]] ...patients after the hospital will be in the hands of specialists at the clinic, and those who need it... [[And the retirees will have free meds.]] ...they'll have rehab assured. It's all done for that. Ladies and gentlemen, today's health system works badly in Poland. We all know that. It's not like it happened yesterday, the day before yesterday, it's been growing for many years. I think if someone is criticizing a network of hospitals today, it is worth noting that many people have tried to do so. We were discussing this, and I was critical in this discussion too, but that's what the whole point is to see, to see what the trends are. [[You're mature.]] And the trend in the world is that a network of hospitals is a solution that is simply needed. In all countries west of us, there are hospital networks. It's you who take responsibility for those hospitals that are crucial to safety, and that's what we're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote in favour of this law also of those of you who, although sitting on my left and thinking more politically at first moment, know this... I urge them to raise their hand and vote for this bill. She's really giving us all a chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u553	The formal proposal shall be submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u554	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask your marshal to announce a time-out so that Mr Marshal can draw the attention of some of the members of the PiS who are doing it again. During Mr Owl's speech, they will huff, pretending to be owls. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I wouldn't laugh. I'm surprised, especially, that's unworthy. [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] But I am surprised, because if you do this, the Modern Club may start acting like Mr Bąk, for example, [[Applause]] And then it's gonna get really ugly in this room. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u555	That's right, that's right. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law contained in print No 1362, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 209 voted against - 231, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Amendments 1 to 11 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the first amendment to Article. 95l. 2 (5) applicants propose that under the security scheme the level of cardiovascular hospitals should also be distinguished. Amendments 3, 5, 6 and 8 to 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In Poland, almost 50% of Poles continue to die from cardiovascular diseases. If today, as a result of the implementation of the Law on the network of hospitals at risk of liquidation, there are at least 30% of hospitals, branches with a cardiac, cardiovascular treatment profile, then tell me where our strategy in terms of challenges and the implementation of health policy towards Poles. Your government has already reduced the valuations in cardiology, which has been difficult, so to speak, swallowed by most medical entities. Today about 30% of branches will disappear from the health map of Poland. Minister, I think it would be worth instead of such a banging and scaring in substance to answer questions in committee and during the debate. At this point, maybe a lot of misunderstandings would be solved. Since all opposition, as rarely happens, is consistent with the fact that this law should go to the basket, many of your Members are in agreement with this, most experts... [[What's that? What's most of it?]] ...is in line with that, isn't it worth a while to think about? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much danger do you serve the Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u557	Thank you. Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I ask a question, I will refer here to an authoritative statement on what hospitals this reform is intended to be against, as the questioner claimed. Well, I want to answer the question, in the interests of which hospitals this reform is intended. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: In the interest of the patient.]] Well, in the interests of hospitals that guarantee comprehensive care of the patient, and the hospital, and the outpatient, outpatient. Now, here's the question. As you know, the government's multi-level hospital organisation system is capable of guaranteeing full and comprehensive cardiological care. Minister, do you confirm this opinion? By the way, I would like to express my conviction that the amendment that we are going to be debating is not here by accident. It is associated with such suspicion that we are dealing with lobbying in the interest of a narrow group of specialized, very narrowly specialized hospitals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u559	Konstanty Radziwiłł's Minister of Health will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is simply pointless. I draw attention to the fact that cardiology is present at all levels of the hospital network and the storytelling about the fact that we want to eliminate cardiology, it is simply in a sense a talk about our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to invasive cardiology or intervention, 75% those units that perform these benefits today enter the network. But it is also worth noting that not going online has nothing to do with decommissioning. It's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's In addition to the networks, those entities which perform the benefits necessary to secure patients, take part in competitions as before and where necessary, of course these competitions will end with contracts, it is quite obvious. By the way, if you are talking about those hospitals that we are supposed to mass-delete, I do not know if you know that there are about 1,100 hospitals registered in Poland with about 80 of those with less than five beds - five or less beds - and there are hospitals that have registered one bed. If these hospitals disappear, then probably not many people will cry for them except those who own them and who simply do business in health care. Therefore, there is no reason to accept this amendment, which means no less, no more, but to seek the interests of these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that in Poland in many places within public hospitals partially rented branches or single beds called hospitals often win competitions against the National Health Fund in competition with those hospitals that rented them surfaces. This is an absolutely pathological situation and the network will end it. [[Applause]] [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u561	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3, 5, 6 and 8 to 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 203 Members voted against - 231, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 95l. 2 by adding point 8 they propose that the level of rehabilitation or geriatric hospitals should also be distinguished under the security scheme. Amendments 4 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister about rehabilitation hospitals. I perfectly understand your intentions to leave patients, especially in the case of post-hospital rehabilitation, in the same hospital. But as the Minister will refer to rehabilitation related to the so-called. Susan's prevention? How can patients who remain on L4, i.e. are protected from work, go to such troops in the framework of the Zussian prevention? Hospitals that have been leading the Zussian prevention function perfectly in the network of current hospitals and young people who want to get back to work as soon as possible use these hospitals. The second case concerns geriatric hospitals. I understand the trends in the world, but this is the trend in Poland, and in the world, that societies are getting older. Don't you think that as is the comprehensive oncology treatment, as is the comprehensive rheumatology treatment, there should also be comprehensive gerontological treatment? After all, the Minister knows perfectly well that old age diseases are not diseases that can be transferred from neurology to internal medicine. Please answer my questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u563	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u564	Law and Justice led by President Jarosław Kaczyński has such a great ability to share and differentiate everything that stands in your way. We already had real Poles, real patriots, and since yesterday we have a new category: real hospitals. Yesterday Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł was gracious during the debate to divide hospitals in Poland into these real... [[Who wrote this?]] ...which will surely go online, and on those untrue ones that will not go online. Hence the concerns of the Silesians, because we already know that most hospitals will probably be eliminated in Silesia. So I ask on behalf of the Silesians, because we suspect that in the Silesian voivodeship these false hospitals are the most. Hence my specific question: Which hospitals, especially in Silesia, but also in Poland, are not real and why? Another scandalous issue is that you have the audacity to call yourselves a pro-family government, and in parallel you are throwing away the newly created health system, the newly formed geriatric network. You threw geriatrics out of your own contract. I'm asking you, why? The fact that there is literally no geriatrics in the law as a contract product is irresponsible and unacceptable. You are thus destroying the long-standing experience of geriatric teams and destroying them in the name of your own illogical experiments. I ask you directly: what have the seniors done to you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you decided to take such cruel revenge on them? Because of your reform, seniors won't have their place in hospitals...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u565	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u566	...and all over your upside-down health system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[You've outgrown the Modern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u567	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have heard in the last sentences is absolutely not true. Geriatrics are integrated from Level III into hospital security - previously proposed by Minister Kosiniak-Kamisha mix, i.e. consultation of geriatric doctors in internist departments. Let us not speak from this place untrue and let us not scare seniors. There are 391 geriatrics in Poland. The proposal presented by the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, is the best possible with the number of geriatrics who actively pursue their profession. I'm telling you again. Since the third level geriatrics are in the hospital security system and a mix of consultation of geriatric doctors in the internist departments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u569	The Minister for Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u570	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that it amazes me when a person as familiar with the system as the Member who asked the question mixes various orders. Zussian prevention takes place on the basis of a different kind of financing, and therefore, in general, the Zussian rehabilitation does not belong to a network of hospitals. It's just a completely independent case. And in general rehabilitation, rehabilitation hospitals are a separate range that does not come into this area, which is contracting hospitalizations in all other branches. Rehabilitation and psychiatry are separate areas. This should not be mixed. However, it should be noted that rehabilitation is included in a lump sum network hospitals primarily for patients hospitalized on various types of branches whose condition, condition, and for example. The surgery that has been performed leads them to continue their treatment after they have been discharged from the hospital in the form of rehabilitation activities. Both hospital rehabilitation and day-to-day rehabilitation will be provided by hospitals online. I've told you before. This will avoid these scary, long waiting periods, e.g. after orthopaedic or other surgery. So there is no problem at all. As far as geriatrics are concerned, today, in health care, especially in conservative wards, but also in surgical wards, a large proportion of patients are elderly. It is quite obvious that all world standards and guidelines say that building special hospitals for them simply makes no sense. In internist, surgical and many others, geriatric consultants are needed, not hospitals for the elderly. That's the idea... [[Sure, why old people's hospitals? Sure.]] ... there is simply no justification for creating such branches from the ground up. Yes, there is a need for a small number of geriatric reference units, which will focus primarily on the training of medical staff, as well as nursing and other medical professionals in favour of or in relation to the different treatment of the elderly, and we ensure that this is because, regardless of the fact that geriatrics for patients will be provided at all levels, e.g. in the internist profile in the vast majority of its scope, it also from the third level, as well as in national hospitals, geriatrics, if there is one, will continue to be maintained and will enter the network. Regardless of this - and here I am reassured by the Member who is worried about Silesian geriatrics, specifically one hospital, which is also a little awkward, in my opinion, in this House - I can assure you that with a high probability of securing the appointment by the director of the regional branch of the fund following a positive opinion by the Minister, the geriatric hospital in Katowice will enter the network, so there is no problem here. Really, don't repeat those things that scare people who cause anxiety... [[These are your words, Minister, your words.]] ...and they're just not in line with what's written in the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u571	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 4 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 207 voted against - 231, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 3 through 11 have already been considered. In amendments 12 to 16, applicants propose inter alia. the extension of time limits for changes to the functioning of the hospital network. In the 17th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant also proposes that the Act should enter into force on 30 September 2018. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal to all of you to support this amendment. This is an amendment that only prolongs the entry into force of this law, such an awfully bad bill. In my mind, it's really just a drug for all of evil, because the bill is bad, ladies and gentlemen. Apart from the fact that it divides hospitals into those that will be online and those that will not, it has not gained approval either of patients or of the medical community or of experts. So the real question is, who is this bill for? Minister, I don't want to say that the bill is just for you and for politicians, because that's what you said, Minister, that you have to have an idea. Yeah, you have to have an idea, only this idea has to be based on facts. If this law were based on epidemiology and quality, I think there would be a lot of people in this Chamber who would vote for such a law. That's what's missing. Therefore, if the Minister urges hospitals to merge, they only make mergers so that they can get online, then give them time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u573	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It took two weeks to work on this bill, but to prepare a response to the modern Members' writings... Interpellations notified to the Minister of Health more than a month ago have not been answered until today, and we have asked the Minister to disclose to the Members the key information which individuals will enter the network and which will be off-line. It can't be that it's just the Minister's knowledge that he won't want to share it by the end of June. This can't be right. Since it takes you so long to prepare your answer, to provide a list of providers, let's give you time. A year later, if this law comes into force, I think you will be able to answer, give all the information, but above all you will also give time to those individuals for whom it will be a whole new situation that will have to be re-established in reality in order to prepare for that time. This time is needed for individuals, but also for patients who lose their existing treatment sites. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u575	There you go. Actually, it was polemic voices. The Minister would like an answer, wouldn't he? Ah, Minister, one more Member. Mr Tadeusz... I'm sorry, I have to... [[The hole.]] ... Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u576	Minister! I would like to ask the following question: What logic do you see in the fact that the opposition, on the one hand, complains that there is no data, can't figure it out, doesn't know anything... [[That's a very good question.]] ...and on the other hand it gives numbers and percentages, how many hospitals aren't going to be in the hospital network? Do you understand that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u577	Thank you. The Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Hospital lists do not need to be given, because the law is not a list of hospitals, it is a law that creates criteria for access to the network or conditional access to the network, and anyone who can read the director of the hospital after reading what is written in this law knows exactly where it is located, there is no doubt about it. [[Then pass it on.]] The Minister of Health does not obtain any central place in this law. [[Central Health Committee.]] It is only in exceptional cases, which are described in the Act, that it is possible, on a certain path, simply to such entities, which for various reasons are important for security and do not meet the requirements. As regards the proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of this law, first of all, it must be said that the work on this law lasted not two weeks, but lasts for over a year, and from the moment we sent the project to the public consultation in October until the entry into force of the law in full in October of the following year it will be an even year. Ladies and gentlemen, this really is not a pace that will not be able to overcome both those who have to adapt to it and the payer. This is a normal pace, calm, where everyone will be able to prepare for it. The change, ladies and gentlemen, is needed, there is no doubt about it. [[But who has no doubts?]] If we were to postpone the entry into force of this law for a few more years today, it would simply mean that we would continue the work of predecessors who for many years did nothing, thinking that it would repair itself. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] It doesn't fix itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge that the law that is needed should not be postponed in time because it is needed now. The change is needed now and please do not delay the entry into force of this law simply because some people have no idea how to heal health care in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u579	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the amendments from 12 to 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 209 against - 230. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole of the draft law, Members of the European Parliament shall submit their questions. Member of Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! You promise a miracle. You maintain that you will heal hospital treatment by turning its funding upside down. But you know that Poland, when it comes to health spending, is on the tail of Europe. We have 30% lower health expenditure than the European average, and that doesn't change, and this law doesn't change. It won't move either. Why is it that your reform does not go hand in hand with increased expenditure on health protection? I know, you're saying you don't have any money. Then at least take out the political offices or stop funding the party from the budget. Look, Kukiz-15 doesn't take any subsidies and he's doing well. You can't do that? [[What about the foundation?]] You can't? Kukiz.15 will tell you that you agree with 100% - first of all, don't hurt. And you want to harm health care, health care. Kukiz.15 will vote 100% against this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u581	Please. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Szyszko, this is the real PiS MacGyver. They wanted to call him off, 200 guys brought him in, they cried out, they called him names, so in PiS-owsko. [[Mr. Szysko.]] [[Voice from the room: A little respect.]] And you, Minister Radziwiłł, at the meeting of the Health Committee for 150 people who were there - nurses, doctors, patients, students, rescuers - supported one, attention, old man from Podkarpacie. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You don't even support your own government. Prime Minister Gowin said how he felt about this bill. He dragged you into politics. [[Voice from the room: Sosnierz.]] Sosnierz said how he felt about this bill because Sosnierz knows his way around it. [[Minister Sosnierz.]] They don't even support you at your club. [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] Minister, you, like Szysko, will not see your vote of distrust, you will flee from this government. And there's gonna be noise on the street, too, except it's gonna be a patient whistle. You've given yourself the biggest embarrassment of your life, and your patients the biggest problems, the biggest armageddon in the last 25 years. [[Applause]] [[Go to the SLD.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u583	Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor. I'd just like to ask... No, I don't need to ask you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u584	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This quite revolutionary bill, listen to the state, concerns 1,100 hospitals, affects several hundred thousand health and healthcare workers and affects several million patients. This bill also covers PLN 30 billion. Aren't you afraid, Minister, that a law so quickly and revolutionaryly introduced can actually turn it all upside down? But I have one more question for the Minister. Is the Minister familiar with the opinion - not the legal opinion but the substantive opinion - of the Sejm Analysis Office, in which this project was described as fundamentally wrong? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u585	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law guarantees the safety of the Polish patient. [[You don't believe it.]] [[Applause]] [[You clapped on your own.]] This law by financial stabilisation, by continuity and comprehensiveness of services gives a sense of security and protects the patient. Don't scare the patients. Hospitals that are to be treated comprehensively will be online, and those that are not online will have a chance to continue to be funded as they have so far. The competitions have been held since 1999. For those hospitals that aren't online, nothing changes, so let's not scare patients or institutions. The patient may regret one thing - that he will lose giant long queues and that when he leaves the hospital he will not be looking for a specialist himself - and I don't think he will feel sorry for that. The bill presented by Konstanty Radziwiłł, the Minister of Health, provides the doctor with a specialist also when the patient leaves the hospital. So far he's been ejected, thrown out of the system, alone in private offices looking for help. I'll say it again: Primum non nocere. [[Yeah, that's right.]] These words are particularly addressed to doctors present in the Chamber, former health ministers. You know that this system, which has been so far, has not worked. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's time to change. You don't deny it. You're only denying that it's the Law and Justice. And he'll do it effectively. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wrong change!]] Just like with the 500+ program, the retirement age reduction...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u587	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u588	...the defense of the country... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Kwiatkowski's ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u589	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u590	...a reform of the wider justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u591	Thank you. The Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u592	We'll make sure the patient's safe. [[Applause]] [[Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The only idea for a clearly difficult situation - when it comes to contracting, which could threaten those real hospitals - which the predecessors had - was to push off somewhere, you don't know when to compete. It was an annexation. We made such a decision at the beginning of our government only to prepare this reform. It wasn't the inevitability of something, it was the intention to sort things out at the time. And we just sort it out. It is well known that the competition, if it were held today, would first of all threaten those real hospitals, those hospitals which provide protection for Polish patients, because they would have to compete with institutions which are strictly business-oriented, are prepared to choose the best, and leave these hospitals with everything that is a problem that is badly financed, etc. These hospitals -- these public hospitals, these real hospitals -- they probably wouldn't stand it, many of them would probably be in danger of being wound up. The network of hospitals that we are introducing is a rescue for these hospitals, but it is also a rescue, and above all, for patients who will be able to hope for a safe place to heal. We rationalize the system by setting up a network. This system requires additional funding, but it must work well so as not to waste money in it. And that's the step in that direction. Those who say that no one supports this project are wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of hospital directors say, make it quicker, because we're dying. In this system, which is today, these hospitals are in real danger. The network guarantees that they will exist, that they will be able to think safely about their future, so as to secure all that is needed for their patients. Work on this law, as I said, has been going on for a long time outside, but also in Parliament itself, you have spent several dozen hours discussing this law. This was not a waste of time, because there were many different arguments and we worked through this bill. She's better than she was at first, thanks to all the work. As far as the vote of support is concerned, this may surprise some, but also the joint committee of the government and the local government has given a positive opinion on this project. It shows that beyond this House, where emotions prevail, where politics prevails... [[Where should it prevail if not in the Seym?]] ...then when you analyze the cold proposals, it turns out there's no better way out for local hospitals than this law. That's what makes them safe. Once we've sorted it all out, we'll certainly also move on to increasing health expenditure. I ask you very much to support this law, including those who express such negative opinions about it in these emotions. This really is an opportunity for all of us, an opportunity for Polish patients. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u594	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1362, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 Members voted against - 209 and five Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1390. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1390 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 6, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers. The additional committee report is in print No 1359-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology considered the two amendments tabled during the second reading and recommends that the High House adopt these amendments together with the entire text of the Act which was delivered to the High House in Parliament's printing No 1359. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Witold, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u596	The Commission proposes that the draft Print Act No 1359 be adopted, as the Member informed. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In Amendments 1 and 2, applicants propose to amend the transitional provision and to amend the entry into force of certain provisions of the Act. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 8, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1359, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in relation to the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on security of mass events. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1376 without amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1376 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on security of mass events. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request of the plaintiff Robert Kropiwnicki of 9 December 2016 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Mr Patryk Jaki. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable only with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. 5 in conjunction with paragraph 5. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the civil liability of Mr Patrick Jaki. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 in conjunction with paragraph 6. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the civil liability of Mr Patrick Jaki. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the plaintiff Robert Kropiwnicki of 9 December 2016 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Mr Patrick What for the act set out in this request will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Courage, sir, courage!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. 178 voted against - 242, with 18 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the civil liability of Mr Patryk Jaki for the act specified in the application of the plaintiff Robert Kropiwnicki of 9 December 2016. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the excise duty law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The Members shall raise questions. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u597	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a project presented by the Kukiz club, it contains flaws, a number of flaws, a slight approach to financial matters, but it also contains an important environmental defect, due to the concern for the clean air that we should display. As a result of the adoption of this project, several dozens of thousands of old, ten-year-old cars will probably go to Poland with old engines that will spoil our air. In fact, due to this environmental aspect, this law should be rejected, but on the other hand, our country needs to be organised better, including. Yes, and perhaps above all, in terms of the tax system. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will treat this project as a reason for discussion, as another element in the discussion that we have been conducting for a long time, about the tax system, its rationalisation, streamlining and making it more tax-friendly. We are not afraid of this discussion, we are taking it as opposed to the PiS club, who wants to reject any law that speaks of such decisions. This is necessary, all the more so as in the field of excise duties the PiS club has prepared another project which will taxally beat in entrepreneurs. So we need this discussion to stop these crazy ideas of PiS. And to the applicants I have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a question: Do they share the concern of the Poselski Club for Poles to breathe clean and healthy air? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u598	Please. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether he knows how important low taxes are for citizens and what the benefits of eliminating excise duties on cars are. This will enable Poles to exchange cars for newer, safer, greener cars. And I would like to ask the applicant, by the way, whether he knows any group that has promised, like everyone else, to reduce taxes, and he has actually done it, because, as far as I can remember, we have always had lower taxes promised, whether it's a linear tax, whether it's an increase in the tax-free amount, whether it's a restoration of the old VAT rate, and always after the election, it ends only with increases. So I'd like to create such a special circumstance, a unique situation and for the first time reduce these taxes. I would like the applicant to explain all these things to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u600	Thank you. The applicants are represented by Mr Sitarski. You'd like to take the floor. [[Can't you guys be in cockroaches?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! How much will the Polish state gain by eliminating excise duty on passenger cars, how much will the citizen gain? Are we going to reduce bureaucracy in this connection, or are we going to save on the costs of collecting excise duties from Poles? The Kukiz15 project concerns the elimination of excise duties on passenger cars. We do not call for the elimination of excise duty on luxury goods, drugs, fuel. It is clear that excise revenue is the revenue of the State Treasury. Having a car is something for a Pole normal, necessary and often necessary for doing work. It's for commuting, it serves the family. The developed and modern automotive market should be a flywheel of the economy. It's a pro-state, pro-Citizen and pro-budget project. Contrary to appearances, what was previously suggested here, we want to limit the scale of fraud by reporting cars classified as waste and imported into Poland as fully operational at the moment as a result of existing regulations. One further issue needs to be raised, namely how the family in Poland is to move in an additional excise duty on a small-Lithuanian car. However, if we want to develop our country, our society, we must give some bonus to Polish families, Polish entrepreneurs. Now another case, the modern question is whether Kukiz15 is in favour of improving air quality. Always. We are always in favour of improving air quality in Poland. I'm going to refer to one thing that maybe very few people know about right now. Newer cars, not the old ones that are imported, because they are additionally subject to excise duty, have much lower emissions than those that are currently being imported. Another matter that needs to be raised. Have you noticed how many cars, especially in southern voivodships, drive with Czech registrations? We need to address this. As a result of regulations that cause excise duties on cars also more expensive, any tax on a registered car e.g. in the Czech Republic, the Pole is paid out in the Czech Republic, the insurance is paid out there, the money is paid for the car, and in Poland we only obtain excise duties. Not much, cars imported from the United States go through ports in Germany and leave taxes there. It's paradoxical. As far as car traffic is concerned, the car market supports 250 000. people directly involved in the trade in second-hand cars, as well as new and newer ones, people in car services, in the steel mill. Whole families live out of it. Why shouldn't we let these people grow? I would argue here to vote against rejection. Of course, we are open to discussion, we are aware that this is not the end of the discussion on excise duty, but there is a committee for this, for which there are even joint committees to work out the right solution for the citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u602	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1369 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour, 228 against 208. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We are returning to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on a parliamentary draft resolution on the 60th anniversary of the launch of European integration processes. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1394. Questions are raised by Members. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft resolution is actually a draft of some godly wishes. The vision that the drafters of this resolution have made is not really on the table in the European Union. There are two visions. One vision is a vision of further deepening what was started in Maastricht, then in the Treaty of Lisbon, in subsequent treaties, the centralist vision, the vision of building a superstate, the superpowers. The European Union. A country that has a unified political will, because in order to pursue foreign policy, security policy, have a European army, an EU army, one must have a unified political will. And then Poland is only a province of this superpower. Until now, this direction has been supported by the PiS. The second vision, which today is on the table in Europe, on the table in the European Union, is the vision of sovereign states, probably unenforceable in the European Union, all points to this. This resolution, this draft resolution assumes that there is a third way. No, there's no third way. There is a road that the current EU elites have, and there is a road that national parties, national groups all over Europe are trying to fight. The essence now is for the Polish Parliament to stand clearly for sovereignty, not for dreams. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u604	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! By adopting this draft resolution, we're losing our chance. We are losing the chance for the Polish Parliament to celebrate this really important anniversary, because the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Treaties of Rome is very important. This is an important anniversary in the history of Europe, we should celebrate it in a dignified way and show how much together we have achieved as Europeans and Poles precisely because of the fact that a common European project has been being built for 60 years and Poland has been participating in this project for 13 years. We have tried to report a project, an opposition project, prepared by Members of the Modern, Platform and PSL, a project which would contain a lot of important elements that would give a completely different rank to this resolution. First of all, we wanted to point out that the European Union is not only a common market but a community of values. Secondly, we wanted to point out that we care about this and that the Polish interest is that Poland should always be in the decision-making centre. Unfortunately, you have rejected your traditional struggle with this desire to talk, you have rejected this project and you want to adopt a resolution that is shallow in its content, it is essentially very Eurosceptical and does not bring any positive thought into the discussion about the future of the European Union. Unfortunately, such a voice of the Polish Sejm on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Treaties of Rome will be a discrediting voice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we should reject this resolution. Unfortunately, there is no common voice of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u606	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2 days it is the anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome establishing the European Community, and probably the time for a positive message to come to the European Union from Poland after this spectacular embarrassment of the Government of Law and Justice from a week ago to Europe. [[Applause]] Maybe for once you'd end up with those puffy faces and smile at that moment. [[Applause]] because Poles and Poles are also looking forward to this message because of the benefits of European integration. [[Smile, Prime Minister.]] What's going on? The Prime Minister is scaring the whole of Europe into not accepting a declaration in Rome. What's going on? Law and Justice wants to adopt a resolution that is completely defensive and above all, as usual, talks about a crisis in the European Union. You didn't want to work with the opposition on one text of the resolution. You didn't want to, even though the moment was big. What were you so afraid of? Were you afraid we were talking about values? That the rule of law must be respected in the European Union? Is that what you were so afraid of? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Quiet!]] Were you afraid that we were talking about the fact that we in the European Union need to be in a decision-making centre, not in the periphery, and that we need to engage in European integration? [[Applause]] The Prime Minister makes a spectacle for this, and probably all the demands of the Polish government will be included in this declaration, just take them seriously. A serious role for national parliaments? Then may the Prime Minister be at the debates about Brexit, about the euro, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let it be in the debates about this resolution, because after all... [[Time!]] ...powerful President Kaczyński assumed responsibility for foreign policy, [[Applause]] So... The Prime Minister may be with us for once. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u608	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u609	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! First of all, total opposition, there's a culture in this room too, so don't yell. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[This is Mrs. Pavlowicz.]] According to the applicants, the draft resolution, Law and Justice, an extremely balanced draft, both relating to the integration process and to a positive evaluation of the contribution of different countries - so I think that the shadow cabinet did not read our draft resolution, hence his ignorance about this subject [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] - it's a very good draft resolution. So? We were to include in this draft resolution your slogans for ever closer European integration? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Those aren't slogans!]] Is that what we were supposed to include in our draft resolution? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Total opposition, from lies about the alleged anti-European government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, you have made a political method for yourselves. Today you think... [[You're waving a saber!]] ...today you also refer to the founding fathers, deeply believing people. Do you think the founding fathers... [[Are the flags in the office or not?]] [[And you have Rydzyk's father.]] ...would you support your use of lies and insinuations? I don't think so. Definitely not. [[Because of us?]] [[Everyone has a father.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u610	Thank you. [[But that was a question for the government.]] Actually, it was a continuation of the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1394, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. A total of 15 Members abstained from voting 244 against - 175. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 60th anniversary of the start of European integration processes. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance and the Act on the amendment of the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 1418. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1418 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 421 voted against - 3 Members, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance and the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. We return to the consideration of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1420. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this initiative to celebrate the Blessed Virgin Mary. Grzegorz Chomyszyn, a Greek Catholic bishop beatified by John Paul in 2001 II, because this is a good example of how we can show the possibility of Polish-Ukrainian dialogue in a responsible way in a forward-looking way. Bishop Chomyszyn was the pastor who is well forgotten in Ukraine today, and we should remember about him both us, Poles and Ukrainians, because he was an important figure in our common history in the 20th interwar anniversary of the Second Polish Republic. What was the opinion of Bishop Chomyszyn about what unfortunately also triumphs in Ukraine today, about pagan chauvinism? She was clearly critical. Bishop Chomyszyn judged this as one of the worst heresy that ever happened to his nation. Therefore, today, especially in view of such mass Ukrainian immigration in Poland, which seems to have no idea of integration or assimilation, this figure is particularly reminded and that such a model, such a type of Latin-Greckokatolic cooperation [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u612	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn fully deserved the name of the prophet of Ukraine, but the prophet is someone who warns. His words are also valid today. His condemnation of nationalism cannot be limited only to the condemnation of Ukrainian nationalism. He warned against the hatred inherent in the ideology of nationalism. Nationalism began with us - he wrote - to take on the characteristics of the pagan spirit, for it introduces the pagan ethics of hatred, commands us to hate all who are of different nationality, and forbids us to show mercy in their misery. That's what's against Christian ethics. It's worth remembering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u614	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1420, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously adopted a resolution to commemorate the blessed Bishop Grzegorz Chomyszyn on the 150th anniversary of his birthday. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. The Senate amendments have been tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Penal Code Act. In the first amendment to Article. The Senate proposes not to amend paragraph 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212 Members. 7 Members voted against 413 and 3 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 189 § 2a and Article 2a 207 § 1a The Senate proposes that the rules be applied to offences committed on account of her age, mental or physical condition. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217 Members. Three Members voted against - 429, 1 Member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 165a of the amended Penal Code of the Senate proposes to give a new wording § 3 and add paragraph 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214 Members. 114 voted against - 283, 30 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 269b of the amended Senate law proposes to add § 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. No one voted in favour, against 434, 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add a revised Article in the Act. 269c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215 Members. No one voted in favour, against 428 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 19 of the amended Act on the Police of the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1. This amendment is linked to the 9th Amendment of the Senate to the Military Gendarmery Act and the Military Orders. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments of Senate 4 and 9 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 199 voted against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 5 to 8 and 11 and 12. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's amendments from 5 to 8 and 11 and 12 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 1 Member voted against - 431, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the amended Act on Capital Market Supervision, the Senate proposes to clarify the provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 119 voted against - 289, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. In Amendment 1. to Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes that the second sentence be deleted. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. One Member voted against - 440, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. 67c in the added mouth. 1a The Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We refer to item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the law on mortgage credit and on the supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 88 Senate in the added paragraph. 3 proposes that the Financial Supervision Commission should have a six-month time limit for examining the applications referred to in that provision. The amendments of Senate 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the amendment to the article. 1 point 7 § 1a of the Law amending the Senate proposes to exclude from the approval of the competent director of the court the orders issued by the court concerning the costs of the court. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the Senate amendment would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. 33 Members voted against 405 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Environmental Law (prints no. 1127, 1318 and 1318-A) - third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 37th meeting on 8 March, the Sejm again referred to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry the draft law contained in print No 1318. On 22 March, the committee considered the amendments made at second reading and recommended that the High House reject the proposals to reject this draft law, reject amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 14, accept amendments 4, 7, 8 and 11 to 13 and, of course, accept the whole of the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u616	Thank you, Member. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1318. It also presents minority proposals and in an additional report - proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. In the first place, I will put to the vote proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission, I remind you, requests that these proposals be rejected. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS, going to the elections, had the words on his mouth about introducing a new quality, a good change. You talked about respect for citizens, about the right of citizens to decide about important matters. What did you do? State delinquency, centralization of all organs. [[Don't bore me.]] Let people decide how they want to solve local problems concerning sewerage, water supply, air protection, water protection and waste management. By centralizing another institution, which directly cooperates with local governments, you are moving forward with your head facing backwards. It's a HR team, it's a cashier's heist, and it's a characteristic feature of the Polish People's Republic. The modern does not support this project and requests that it be rejected in this form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u618	Please. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling party! You submit local governments to the processing process of the voivodships. You have already cut off agricultural advisory centers, now you will cut off regional environmental and water management funds - formally local government legal entities, local government, in a moment they will be government, see, read: PiS. This law takes the influence of local governments on this tool for improving the environment. First reason, you rule only in one of the voivodships. The second reason is that there are 96 jobs to take and several billion to be controlled. How does this apply to the fact that the constitution ensures the decentralisation of public authority in Poland? How does this apply to the fact that the government of the voivodship is supposed to conduct development policy and must have tools for this? No, of course not. The blade of party greed is ruthless here. The soulful atmosphere in Poland is not only the effect of 3 million Cinderella kilns, it is also the effect of legislative smog from baking such laws. [[Where'd you get those laws?]] Be careful you don't suffocate yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u620	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 176 voted against - 245, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 400d paragraph. 1 and paragraph 1. 2 points 2 and 4 of the Environmental Law propose, inter alia, that the supervisory board of the national fund should count not more than seven people, and it was also composed of a representative of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. The adoption of this proposal will render the 1st amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 171 voted against - 242, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. 400d paragraph. 1 applicants propose that the national supervisory board of the fund count not more than seven people. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, you refer to the fact that savings are a very important element. This is an amendment that you can demonstrate, because in the voivodship environmental funds you reduce very much not only local representation, but also representatives of other environments, while in the case of the national environmental fund you reduce only the representative of the committee of the joint self-government party. It doesn't matter if you have ten of your own or seven of your own, and the savings are going to be more than 10,000. monthly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u622	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Three Members abstained in voting 186 against - 252. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 400f paragraph. Points 1 to 7 and paragraph 2. 7 applicants propose, among other things, that the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds include: a representative of the national fund appointed by the national management board of the fund from among its employees, as indicated by the sejmik, a scientific representative operating in the voivodship concerned and the chairman of the Sejm committee responsible for the management of the fund. the environment or their alternates. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments from 2 to 4 and 3 of the minority proposal futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 186 against - 255. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second amendment to the article. 400f paragraph. 2 applicants propose a new wording of point 1 The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 182 voted against - 254, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 400f paragraph. 7 applicants propose another way to set up supervisory boards for voivodship funds. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 179 voted against - 250, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 400f applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 233 votes against - 200 Members, 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th minority motion to... As I said before, the third minority proposal has become unobtrusive. We move to vote on the 4th minority proposal. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 400 lips. 1 and in the added paragraph. 2a applicants propose that the management board of the voivodship funds should have between two and three persons and that candidates for the voivodship funds meet the eligibility criteria set out in Article. 400i paragraph. 4. The adoption of this proposal will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5 to 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 181 votes against - 248 and 10 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment to the article. 400 lips. 1 applicants propose that the management board of the voivodship funds should count from two to three persons. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 179 voted against - 252, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 400j applicant in the added paragraph. 2a propose that candidates for voivodship funds meet the eligibility criteria set out in Article. 400i paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 248, with five Members holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 400j applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 246, against 165, with 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 400 lips. 3 applicants propose to amend their appointments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 237 voted against - 173, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 2 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes that the mandate of the existing members of the supervisory boards listed in that provision expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of this law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. There were 166 votes against - 245, 28 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment in the new wording of Article. 3 of the draft law amending applicants propose longer deadlines for the appointment of supervisory boards and members of the management board of voivodship funds. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal and amendments from 11. to 13. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 176 votes against - 252, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) The draft law amending the applicant proposes, among other things, that the supervisory board of the voivodship fund direct to the management board of the voivodship a request for the appointment of members of the management board of the voivodship fund within 30 days of the date of appointment and that the management board of the voivodship fund appoint members of the management board of the voivodship fund within 14 days of receipt of the application. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 11 to 13 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 182 voted against - 255, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Amendments 11 to 13 to Article. The draft amending act shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. and add paragraph 1. 2a. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 11 to 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 236 voted against - 173, with 31 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2018. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 6th minority proposal. The question is raised by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lex Szyszko showed how many errors can be made with a knee-pulled bill, in the column room on December 16th, irreversible errors already. The law established quickly is always subject to the risk of error. Hurry slowly, you'll avoid a mistake. We believe that if the bill is to enter into force, it is in a way that allows for rational, smooth functioning and ordering. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u624	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 60, against 254, with 120 abstentions. Seym... [[Voice from the room: Slow down, please.]] ...the amendment was rejected. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 October 2017. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 166 votes against 266 and 7 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Members of the House are asked questions. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another law whose purpose is to weaken the self-government. It's a staff and robbery bill, two in one. On the one hand, it will allow you to list today elected representatives of different environments, scientific, economic, environmental, local government, but also representatives of the national environmental fund or voivodeship - on your own, as indicated by the Minister, from the appointment of your President, on the indication of your voivodeship. And on the other hand, you're taking a large part of the money. I know that you will be assured that these funds, this money, will remain in each of the voivodships. That's not true. 10 years ago, under the same minister of the voivodship's environment, they were forced to buy out the shares of the Bank of Environmental Protection, and that can also be the case today. That money doesn't necessarily stay in the regions. If it's the president's will, they'll find what he wants. [[Applause]] [[What president?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u626	Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Antonio Gramsci, an Italian classic of Marxism, discovered that about the extent of influence... [[You guys know about this stuff.]] ...not only political power, but also the mastery of the institution. [[But they're not ours. They're your classics.]] He made the argument that in order to achieve this goal, a long march by the institutions is needed. And today, we're witnesses, you're moving this way very quickly. Regional environmental funds, if this law is adopted, will become a blowout of the local government institution, the Marshal will lose influence on regional environmental policy. This is a law aimed exclusively at the exchange of human resources, so that only the minister can fill positions in 16 voivodship environmental funds. I therefore appeal: You have, gentlemen and Members, me too, the red button, the alarm button. Let us press the alarm button in this vote to reject this proposal. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u628	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u629	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's no secret that every four years the voivodship funds were a party loot. And here's good news for all the locals. There will be no accelerated local elections, because with the entry of this bill the loot will be taken over - from PO and PSL to Law and Justice. Party's still working, and nothing's gonna change around here. Here's another thing. With the entry into force of this law, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking financial oxygen for the voivodship authorities. The conclusion is very simple. We're in the winding-up phase of the voivodship government. With the entry into force of this law there will no longer be the same self-government structure... [[Support the PiS.]] ...and, ladies and gentlemen, this is a signal that we're really going back to the PRL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u630	There you go. Madam, but I can only give you the floor as the Member asking the question on behalf of the club and not as the rapporteur. There you go. Mrs Anna Paluch, Club Law and Justice, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u631	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, why are you so determined? And the answer is also one: All your colleagues from the Platform and PSL have been sitting on these stools for years. [[Applause]] The presidents earn at least 25 thousand, in most voivodship funds there are four, and in some five presidents. [[Yours for free, for charity.]] It costs astronomical money. And the savings alone in reducing management, ladies and gentlemen, and in reducing the number of supervisory boards from 7 to 5 people in voivodship funds... [[Count your people, we can learn from you.]] ...that'll be PLN 7 million. Ladies and gentlemen, 1,000 fifth-generation boilers for this uprising. You care so much, my dears from the opposition, for air purification, for fighting smog. Finally, the money from the voivodship funds will go to fight the smog, they will go to air protection, not to Byzantium, which your party colleagues are working out there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u632	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The process of changing the state system by means of parliamentary projects continues to be the best. This revolution is in total contradiction with the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, which means that all competences and powers are delegated downhill, to municipalities, districts and voivodships - to voivodships which you have already deprived of agricultural advisory centres, the possibility of redistribution of funds to sport, and also now to voivodship environmental funds, from which you create a church legal structure, because a local legal person is subject to an official in a national fund which has nothing to do with local government. For nothing the voices of citizens, local government, NGOs, even the opinions of constitutionalists, which leave nothing on this project. Even the Bureau of Sejm Analysis said it was negative. And you, of course, are destroying Polish local governments. The Polish People's Party and the inhabitants of our small homelands do not agree to the destruction of the Polish self-government. [[Applause]] [[But we don't want your permission.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u634	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1318, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 242 voted against - 184, 10 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Environmental Law. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Election of the Deputy President of the Court of State (prints 1379 and 1386). I ask Mr Mark Ast to present the candidacy of Mr Andrzej Tomasz Rogoyski, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Members of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting my candidacy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Andrzej Tomasz Rogoyski as Deputy President of the Court of State. Mr Andrzej Tomasz Rogoyski was born on 14 August 1960 in Warsaw. He graduated from the General Education High School. Stefania Sempołowska in Warsaw. Between 1980 and 1985 he studied at the Faculty of Canon Law of the Catholic Theology Academy and then at the Faculty of Law of the University of Warsaw. He received a master's degree in law and canon law. In 1980 he was co-founder and chairman of the Independent Association of Students of the Academy of Catholic Theology. During student strikes in November 1981 he headed the Strike Committee of the Independent Association of Students of the ATK. During the martial law, he was hiding. In the places of his residence at that time and later there were points of distribution of underground publications, printing equipment, as well as conspiracy meetings of Tygodnik Mazowsze were organized. Between 1990 and 1991 he was on a National Forum Foundation scholarship related to the Republican Party of the USA. As part of this scholarship he was among others. an intern in the office of a member of the House of Representatives of the U.S. Congress Paul Kanjorski, in law firms and media companies. After returning to Poland in 1991, he became the CEO of the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction in the government of Prime Minister Jan Krzysztof Bielecki. He was responsible for overseeing the Departments of Administration and Foreign Affairs. Between 1992 and 1997 he worked as a lawyer in law firms in Warsaw. Between 1994 and 1997 he held a lawyer's application. Since 1998 he has been a lawyer and runs an individual law firm. He is the author of publications in the field of labour law and co-author of the chapter devoted to sports law in Poland in the book entitled: .Sports marketing Europe. Between 2001 and 2002 he was a councilman at the Warsaw-Żoliborz District Council. He has been working with NGOs for years, providing legal assistance to victims, in particular those affected by family violence. He's a so-called winner. The glasses of equality he received at the hands of the sleeper. Mr Isabella Jarugi-Nowacka. Featured in the Pro Bono 2003 Lawyer Competition organized by Rzeczpospolita. Currently he is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Polish Radio SA in addition to the profession of lawyer. He's married, he's the father of four children, he's got two grandchildren. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Andrzej Tomasz Rogoyski is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u636	Please, or rather, thank you, Mr President. I ask Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz to present the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u637	Following a discussion at its meeting on 22 March 2017, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave a positive opinion on Mr Andrzej Rogoyski's candidacy as a member of the Court of State. No one was against it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Very good!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u638	Thank you. Would any of you like to take the floor on your candidacy? No one's checking in. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Vice-President of the Court of State. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Andrzej Rogoyski as Deputy President of the Court of State, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. The absolute majority is 200. The vote was 244 against - 44, with 110 abstentions. The absolute majority elected Mr Andrzej Tomasz Rogoyski as Deputy President of the Court of State. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On this we exhausted the agenda of the 38th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 30 hours 22 min 31]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Szymon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dedicated to the leaders of the opposition's total review of the events initiated on 16 December 2016 and at the same time a warning about the projects for the future told by the great English poet Geoffrey Chaucer: 'A what his head has glass on his back, let him not throw stones through. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u640	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President...der! Ambassador Kovács! Today March 23rd, Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day. On this occasion, I would like to make a brief statement that the Polish Parliament remembers this feast, that the Polish Parliament remembers our Hungarian brothers, that it remembers our relations, which have been shaped for centuries, for almost 1000 years, about relationships that have been better, have been worse, but they have always been filled with warmth and are simply a symbol of the word friendship. I don't want to dwell too much on the details of our history, but it is filled with many glorious facts, among others. We had a common king, we had rehearsal moments together, especially in the 20th century, which we survived together. Here we should mention the so-called. Miracles over the Vistula, when the Hungarian brothers helped us. Thanks to them, thanks to their help, we were able to stop the Bolshevik mess. Then the time, the difficult time of World War II, when Hungary was in the enemy camp of Poland, but this hostility has never shown us. Few of this, Mr Pál Teleki, Prime Minister of Hungary of that time, said that it was a matter of honor that Hungary should never stand against Poland, and so it did not happen. Then it was the 1950s, a period of the Hungarian Revolution in 1956, which was so loudly and so beautifully celebrated last year, in 2016. After all, there are also these Polish-Hungarian relations today, our common policy, the common activity in the European Union, the common desire to reform the European Union, to make it a functioning organism, not as it is today. Mr. President...der! Ambassador Kovács! I would like to assure you, I think, that not only on my behalf, but also many Members of the Polish Sejm, and I hope that also the majority, or perhaps the whole, that the Polish-Hungarian friendship lies at the heart of every parliamentarians in Poland and is not threatened. Long live the Polish-Hungarian friendship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u642	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! March 19th this year. once again I participated in an extraordinary patriotic celebration organized in the village of Kolno - the name of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, a beautiful tradition initiated in the Second Republic. In the Second Republic of Poland, 19 March was a day regarded almost as a national holiday, especially in the army. There is no branch that does not want to celebrate the name of the marshal - she wrote about Józef Piłsudski in 1923. On that day, dorms, concerts, parades were organized. Not only for the army, but also for many people Piłsudski was and is to this day the personification of reborn and independent Poland, a hero, but above all he is a true authority. Leon Rożalowski wrote about Józef Piłsudski: His name is the slogan of all those who did not allow the invaders to tear the banner of independence out of the hands of the nation. It is the slogan of those who have only the honour of Poland and its power in front of their eyes. It's the slogan of those who, through hunger torture and becauserage, set an example of how to live, work and die for Poland. The year 2017 was established by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by the Year of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. The celebration of the Marshal's memory is related to the 150th anniversary of his birth, as indicated in the resolution, a steadfast fighter for freedom and independence of Poles. Józef Piłsudski was the creator of the idea of close cooperation between the nations of Międzymorza, the creation of a group of countries in Central and Eastern Europe, which would constitute a barrier against the expansion of Soviet Russia and safeguard Poland's independence. During the German occupation and several dozen years of Soviet power over Poland, Marshal Józef Piłsudski became a symbol of the tireless struggle for independence and an example for the next generations of Poles of patriots - it is written in the resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! The actions and thoughts of the first Marshal of Poland still represent a living value, a source of strength, wisdom, patriotic attitudes, fidelity to what Poland represents. From his accomplishments we can draw the right conclusions, namely: we are all responsible for our country, for its future. Today, patriotism is expressed in what values we refer to and what values we convey to others. It is reflected in the message of national traditions, which are a bridge between the past and the present, in the transmission from generation to generation of historical truths, cultural content, customs, views and beliefs, ways of thinking and behaviour and standards of conduct. In this transfer of patriotic values, the family, which is the first school of patriotism, plays an important role, and it is it that determines the duration of the nation, tradition and culture. It is from parents that the child first learns respect for his homeland and love for it. To conclude, I will quote the words of St. John Paul II. Pope Pole in Kielce on 3 June 1991 said: I came into the world when the Bolsheviks went to Warsaw when the miracle over the Vistula took place, and his instrument, the instrument of this miracle over the Vistula in the military sense, was undoubtedly Marshal Piłsudski and the entire Polish army. I am glad that in sovereign Poland they are re-glowing the patriotic ideas associated with the defence of the homeland, with Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Jack Baginski, the principal of the Red Primary School near Kolno, for organizing this extraordinary and wonderfully prepared ceremony. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u644	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u645	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am very pleased to inform you that Karolina Farasiewicz, a player of the Sports Club Boutique from Prudnik, together with two contestants from the club Archer Żywiec reached for gold in the Hall European Championships in Archery held in France. Karolina Farasiewicz is a student of the Opole University of Technology in the Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy. Karolina has lived since childhood in Prudnik municipality. He participates in prestigious national and international competitions. Decently representing our country, reaching higher and higher deposits. Karolina is also the best archer in Poland in the youth category. Let us remember that the ideas brought by sport affect not only physical development, but above all shape the character of an athlete. The hard work and perseverance of the player has certainly contributed to this success. Victory is not only a confirmation of great talent, sport class, but, above all, a testimony of the strength of character, valour and mental resilience. And that's how Carolina is. The success of young players has become a cause for pride not only for the club or the local community from Prudnik, from which I also come, but above all it has become a pride for the whole country. I congratulate our golden players and wish them many more victories. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u646	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two important events convinced me to make today's statement. Firstly, the choice of the European Union by means of a method indicating the finger of its high official, which is the President of the European Council, and secondly, by the Movement of Europe Christi, in conjunction with the I Congress of the Schuman Group on 11 and 12 March this year. a pilgrimage to Jasna Góra to pray for the return of Europe to Christian roots by imitating God's servants Robert Schuman, called Saint in a suit, and Alcide De Gasperi, in 1945 and 1953 Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Italy. It is not difficult to notice the serious differences in the idea accompanying these two events, because on the one hand we see the exposure of the contemporary essence of the European Union, expressed by the mouth of the President of France, that the structural funds are important, not the rules, as well as the mocking smile of the newly elected President of the Council of Europe, while on the other hand we see the reference to the Christian heritage, where faith was at the heart of uncompromising honesty. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It turns out that Europe needs saints in suits. Such saints were Alcide De Gasperi and Robert Schuman, who under the eye of Providence built Europe as a community. They built a Europe without high-flying democratic slogans. They built a Europe that restores a sense of dignity and authority to people who care about the common good, as Archbishop Wacław Depo said on the first day of the pilgrimage on Jasna Gora. It is also difficult to disagree with the statement that there is an urgent need for people living according to the principles of the Gospel to be leaders in party groups, wherever possible, who respect all the commandments of the Decalogue. The cold, rigid offices of Europe need to liven up with Christian awareness, because only then will the people of Europe have no sense of being strangers in their own history and culture. Archbishop Wacław Depo also stressed how important it is in our time that the foundations and Christian values should not be rejected with the choice of group leaders. I do not understand why a rich heritage of Christian Europe may be rejected or overlooked. After all, in the case of Robert Schuman, faith was at the heart of his legendary modesty, his trusting and kind attitude toward people, as well as his willpower, his ability to endure the opposites and achieve the goals set, as Jerzy Łukaszewski emphasizes. Today, many environments find it difficult to appreciate the strong Christian roots of Europe. That is why now, in the face of so difficult to understand the behaviour of European politicians, we must save Europe that is going to be lost, constantly recalling the principle that Alcide De Gasperi, every day, says that Catholicism is a constant rule that man should follow from cradle to coffin, soul and core of all things. If we understand it, then we will not have to fear for the future of Europe unless we lack the courage to use this sacred signpost. Then I suggest to the Creator of the World that he guide us with a certain hand in the ways of freedom and renewal, give us a gift of imitation in faith, in love for Christ and the Church, in sacrifice for the family, such politicians as Alcide De Gasperi and Robert Schuman, who were boundlessly devoted to serving their brothers in the social and political fields. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-23-sejm-38-2.u648	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes the 38. meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 39th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 5, 6 and 7 April 2017, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 22 min 48]]
