ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration and considering it as item 10 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 425 and the committee report In print No 425 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present the Report of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act amending the Act This committee was held today. The bill was on the agenda. This bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Marian Banaś, who referred to the Act. There's been a brief discussion. In fact, two questions have been asked. One of them concerned the deadline for implementing the law. Mr. Senator got it. That's what I think. The answer to that question. The motion was put to the vote to adopt a law without amendments. That's what the committee did. The Commission has adopted this law without amendment and proposes that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask this question to the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Deputy Minister Marian Banasi. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[No, no!]] [[Voices from the room: No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government draft law amending the Act of. Provisions introducing the Act on National Tax Administration... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear. Lower the mike!]] [[Minister, the microphone.]] Lowering. The purpose of the Act is primarily to align the provisions of our Act on National Tax Administration with the provisions of the Road Transport Act and the Act on the amendment of the VAT Act, which is because these two laws were examined at the same time as our law was being processed and it was not possible to harmonise the content of these laws with our Act. At the same time, we have introduced a number of technical and adaptable provisions that will make it easier for us to implement this law on 1 March. These are more or less such amendments, which relate primarily to briefings for officers. If we were to remain in line with the content of the Act at the moment, we would have to pay double checks if we retired officers, which we think would be unfair, given that there is only one briefing in other professions. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a minute. Minister, wait a minute, there may still be questions. [[No questions.]] Maybe I'm wrong. At the moment, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj volunteered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] [[Are you gonna report anything?]] I would like to make a declaration immediately that I will not make any amendments. I'm talking about you guys being calm, not nervous, listening to my brief speech about maybe not just the bill... [[Thank you.]] ...but everything that's related to this bill. The creation of the National Tax Administration as a uniform service, a single state administration is a fundamental event, as I mentioned when we created the mother's law. It is a law that will apply to all Poles whether they are engaged in economic activity or receive only remuneration from their workplace. Therefore, such laws should show special care about procedures, time, possibilities for analysis, etc., etc. You know how this works: yesterday the Sejm, the committee in the morning, the Senate in a moment. The President is in Vistula, but he's waiting for this bill to be signed. [[It's a job.]] [[Quiet, don't interrupt him.]] Well, I don't want to comment on my dear friend from Pomerania anymore, but sometimes I'm ashamed. Come on, Waldz, please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] But it's not that you're from Pomerania, it's about your fantastic comments. [[Ladies and gentlemen, please don't comment on the senator's comments. We're listening, Mr. Senator, to the speech.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. What is important is what is related to the care of procedures, the time to consider, to make comments, so that there is no... I think it's the third or fourth law. I don't count them anymore, which we're adopting, and we're coming back to her in a minute, because like the Minister said, something had to be coordinated. If always coordination, Minister, was that two days before the entry into force of the law, such amendments would still be made, there would be total chaos. I, out of curiosity, checked various types of data, including data from institutions that deal with, ladies and gentlemen, monitoring not quality, but mode, way of adopting laws and numbers. And I'm proud to tell you that we're in the lead. Namely, for a year of our work, especially at the initiative of Members of the Law and Justice, we have adopted almost 30,000 parties to various kinds of legislative acts and regulations. We are clearly at the top of the European agenda, and we can be proud of it. I, ladies and gentlemen, am proud of double because I come from Kwidzyn, where there is a cellulose and paper factory. Her president says: keep it up, because you are raising the amount of paper produced in Poland. But let's be serious. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case with lawmaking... It has been a year, and I would like to tell you that there are procedures that can be learned for a year. It's not just about speed. We have adopted more than 190 laws, of which more than 80 laws have been proposed as parliamentary laws. This is the first place in the world, too. Well, there's no other country like that. I didn't check Belarus. Although we have a warm relationship with Belarus lately, I don't know what it's like. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask... I don't know if this bill is necessary or everything the Minister said at the committee meeting. I believe, Minister, that what you have said will be assured: favor, openness, help... I don't want to quote that anymore. It was during my break that I read several articles about the favor of the tax office towards taxpayers. Since it's Friday, it starts last weekend, I'm not going to quote them, but I hope these are individual cases. [[What last weekend? Why last weekend?]] Last weekend before the post. [[Oh, okay.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would therefore like to ask you Mr. Marshal just inspired me to do it. In such a long-term provision, we should decide that in such a way we will not accept any more times in the Polish Parliament. What I'm trying to say is, on ash Wednesday, I'm going to make this declaration. If you're gonna file a bill like this, I'm gonna leave the courtroom to fulfill my orders. I would therefore like to say that, as I recall my previous term, I recall a colleague... I'm addressing a colleague of Marek Martynowski's. I valued him, and I still value the great thing that happened in his previous term. As far as I can recall, the bill's drafts were rarely made... they were processed in such a mode and time that the President was waiting, the Sejm has already passed the bill, and we only quickly, quickly 536 pages in 24 hours... Really, the world record we can be proud of. And he paid particular attention to a few elements: the deadline for delivering documents, at least a week for analysis, and as vacathio legis was already two weeks old, he was my sympathetic colleague from the previous term of office and also now, Marek Martynowski, hair from head to neck. So what I'm asking is, what happened, Mark? Do you need to go to the other side of the power to ignore this kind of action? That is why I would like to say that I will vote against this law because of the fact that in Poland this right should not be created, should not and should not be made. This is a law that applies to all taxpayers in Poland, and in a moment we will find out how many mistakes, shortcomings, will be difficult and we will correct something again. That's why I'm asking you to do this one last time. But I will vote against this law to express my disapproval of everything called PiS-owska lawmaking procedure in Poland. Thank you very much and I would like to ask you to consider the next draft laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u7	Thank you very much. [[You're gonna blow your head off with ashes.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 2:30 p.m. Then the vote will take place. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 12 to 14 minutes 32]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 404 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 eliminates grammatical error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 74... 75 senators, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 removes terminology inconsistencies and eliminates unnecessary repetition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 3 eliminates the contradiction within the amended provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 removes the provision temporarily maintained by the existing Regulation as inadmissible from the point of view of the consistency of the legal system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 80 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 resolves in a precise manner the inter-temporary problems related to the entry into force of the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 Senators voted, 77 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 5 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Act on Patent Advocates. We are returning to the second agenda: the law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and postwar repression. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 417 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 aims to include in the diagnostic and oncology treatment card the details of the physician who is part of the multidisciplinary therapeutic team planning and coordinating the oncology treatment process. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 28 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 2 aims to change the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 80 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the adoption of the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 23 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate printing No 418 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 57 votes against, 23 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 419 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission supported the first proposal from the table of proposals and proposes the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u9	Do you still want to speak as an applicant? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled if the proposal is rejected. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 23 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 415 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the joint committees, I would like to inform you that a proposal to adopt a law without amendment was adopted during the committee meeting. The proposal received the support of the majority, the ratio of votes is 10:3, these 3 people voted the opposite. A minority proposal on this issue will also be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees. There's no senator? Uh-huh. And are you the Senator the applicant... And if there's no senator, then I won't ask again. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, supported by the joint committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 57 for, 24 against. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Act No 413 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted together. They harmonise the arrangements adopted in the Act and prejudge that the recipient of the information indicated is the head of the National Tax Administration and not the minister responsible for public finances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 2 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendments 4, 5, 6 and 7 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure the consistency of the law to the extent that the law, with its later date of entry into force, introduces provisions for the automatic exchange of information on reported accounts and repeals provisions on information on interest payments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendments 4, 5, 6 and 7 were accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 425 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 59 votes against, 21 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would remind you that the next meeting will be held on 2 and 3 March. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters at the meeting of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? I know they're... Senator Robert Gawel. You're welcome. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Andrzej Adamczyk, on the modernisation of the Warsaw railway line Poznań, stage two. Dear Minister, For 6 years, the second stage of the modernisation of the line has been in preparation. In preparation, it was decided to extend the scope of work and increase the investment budget. The increased scope of the work will also include infrastructure elements that were mentioned in the first stage of the work, despite the fact that up to now their level of consumption, measured by the transferred load and additional technical assessment, does not qualify them for exchange under the rules of PKP PLK SA. These elements still allow the train to run at a speed of 160 km/h and this condition should be maintained for another 15 and 20 years. In the case of the Warsaw line Poznan's replacement of these little worn-out elements will cause the greatest difficulties in the movement of trains, as it is intended to cover track sections between different stations. In most cases work will be carried out on one track and train traffic will be carried out on the neighbouring track. In the case of parts of the Konin section However, September was decided to completely halt train traffic. In preparation, as part of the justification for the investment, an analysis was created as part of the feasibility study. This document, which deals with shortening travel times and improving capacity... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen! Excuse me.]] ...was prepared in 2014 by the Economic Advisors' Team TOR and the Railway Institute. This analysis is a theoretical model, which assumes a very large reduction of travel time, mainly for freight and regional trains, and the E20 capacity is expected to increase to 500 daily trains. The results presented in this analysis are not really possible because they assume the movement of freight trains without stopping throughout the whole section of Sochaczew A quarterback at 120 km/h. This is not compatible with the traffic of passenger trains which have priority. The increase in capacity to 500 trains per day is not only impossible to obtain but also unnecessary. For the previous 17 years of operation of the line since the completion of the first stage of modernization on any of the sections of the railway line from Sochaczew to Swarzędza the daily traffic did not exceed 120 trains. From the technical point of view, it would be possible to increase capacity in case of an increase in the number of track paths, changes in the length of braking routes, or increases in the number of station tracks, but none of these elements will change during the second stage of modernisation. Only the planned reinforcement of the power supply has a minor impact on the improvement of the traction parameters of trains. The scope of modernisation for the second stage of the work was prepared and accepted by the previous Management Board of PKP PLK, and the current Management Board has not verified it. The project in its present form is socially harmful, based on a fictional analysis which shows the effects that will not be possible after completion of the work. Finally, after several years of difficulties, the journey time will be reduced very slightly only for the fastest express trains. The reduction in travel time towards Poznań will be 5 minutes and will reach a record value of over PLN 400 million per minute. So far, none of the railway projects have had such low efficiency. It is therefore appropriate to stop the project, verify it and re-advertise the procedures to correct the scope which is now over-sized for most issues. It is also worth noting that some of the necessary work has been completely omitted. This concerns leaving low platforms which are not compliant with TSI requirements at stations such as Barłogi and Kawnice, and the omission of local authorities' votes, which call for the change of existing crossings of railway roads and railway lines to be without collisions. Cancellation of tenders and possible payment of compensation to contractors for preparing offers is a cost of up to several hundred thousand zlotys. The implementation of tasks to the present extent is a waste of more than PLN 2 billion from EU funds, but also the necessary national contribution. After years of difficulties and loss of a significant number of passengers, recovery will be very difficult because the work will not bring them new quality of service. In this respect, This is the first such inefficient modernization of the railway line in Poland. With respect, Robert Gaweł. I'm transferring the second statement to the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u13	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator... Which one? [[Ryszka.]] Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome, Senator.]] Statement, addressed to the President of Warsaw, Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, on the blasphemous performance of the Curse in Warsaw's Universal Theatre. Madam President! The Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw, supervised by you, staged an outrageous art of "The Curse" on the motives of Stanisław Wyspiański's drama directed by Oliver Frljicia. On the TVP Info video you can see scandalous, blasphemous scenes, insulting cross, St.John Paul II or the Vatican flag. During the performance, the actors repeating the word "Poland" are heard, while at the same time copulating movements are performed. In the final stage, one of the actors talks about a fund-raiser for the assassination of Jarosław Kaczyński, for whom he wants to persuade the audience. There are also mockerys of the Smolensk disaster in the performance, and one of the monologues asks: which one of the ladies in the room had an abortion? The praise of abortion and, above all, the numerous blasphemous scenes are jesting out of Polish law, hurting the feelings of believers, fulfilling the signs of the crime defined in the article. 196 criminal code, i.e. images of religious feelings. The outrage is aroused by the fact that the insidious spectacle of "The Curse" is financed by taxpayers' money In this case, 8 million zlotys of annual grants to this theatre were handed over by the president of Warsaw City Hall managed by you. It also surprises at least that about the performance and its director, apart from media patrons, among others. Mr Gazeta Wyborcza, who issued Agora, expressed his positive views, among others. Director of the Bureau of Culture of the Office m.st. Warsaw, then, your subordinate. We know that the D.A.'s office took care of the curse. In our opinion, this barbaric spectacle has no artistic value, and its purpose is to fight Poles, to trample our dignity, to provoke an uproar. As Senators of Law and Justice, we strongly protest against this dimension of the spectacle. We call for respect for the religious feelings of believers. We call for the performance to be withdrawn from the repertoire of the Universal Theatre. We do not agree to the filthiness of many Polish saints. We are directing this call to the President as a Catholic in connection with the charismatic movement, expecting rapid and decisive intervention. The statement was signed by senators: Stanisław Karczewski, Margareta Budner, Jarosław Rusiecki, Czesław Ryszka, Zdzisław Pupa, Jan Maria Jackowski, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Dorota Czudowska, Zbigniew Cichoń, Janina Sagatowska, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Jerzy Czeriński, Tadeusz Romańczuk, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Marek Pęk, Robert Dobrzyński, Alicja Zając, Adam Gawędzierz Wiatr, Andrzej Kamiński, Krzysztof Mróz, Rafał Ślusarz, Artur Warzocha, Wojciech Piech, Małc, Jan Dobrzyk, Jan Dobrzyk, Szław Szkoc, Szbrzewski, Jan Hamerzyk, Szgorzyk. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u15	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u16	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszka. Dear Minister, No law on water law and delaying reform of water management institutions, including no river basin management plans The plans required by the EU Directive threaten to suspend Poland's resources for investments in the water sector and waste management. We know about these problems not from now on, but in recent years the European Commission has clearly signalled its concern for the Polish government. The operational programme "Infrastructure and environment" and regional operational programmes for all voivodships are at risk of halting measures. It is extremely important because it concerns EUR 82 billion in the 2020 perspective, including EUR 3 billion this year. I suspect that possible measures from the so-called may also be in danger. Juncker's fund, which is to be the main source of funding for the revitalisation of Polish waterways, and I will remind you that the value of this programme is about 90 billion PLN, of which about 60 billion would come from EU funds. Therefore, please provide the following information. Does the Polish Government have a real plan to adapt Polish legal reality to the EU Water Directive? What EU measures are at risk in the event of non-fulfilment of commitments to implement this Directive? What are the problems and where are the main obstacles preventing the introduction of the Water Framework Directive in Poland? I would like to address another statement to the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Witold Bianca. Dear Minister, On the initiative of the Members of the European Union, the Polish Tourism Organization is to be wound up on 1 January 2018. POT has been engaged in promotion of tourism in Poland and promotion of Poland as an attractive tourist destination since 2000. After 2002, the tasks and objectives of POT were strongly linked with the activities of local authorities. Regional tourism organisations and more than 120 local tourist organisations were established, but the creator and promoter of this concept, Andrzej Kozłowski, lost the President of POT as soon as he reached the power of the PiS in 2006. I get the feeling that PiS didn't like this organization at the time, and now he wants to make up for what he didn't have time to do. The liquidation of POT means that tasks, property and more than 100 people will be taken over by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. It will also take over the budget, but only about PLN 40 million, because it is expected that POT partners, including regional authorities, will not want to continue cooperation in a new form. This also applies to me personally, because I was the founder and president of the Local Tourist Organization. I am also co-initiator of the association Regional Tourist Organization. King Stefan Batorego, who is in the process of registration. We decided to choose the ROT formula mainly with the hope of cooperation with the local governments of the Podlaskie, Mazowieckie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Warminski and Pomorskie voivodship. For this reason, ROT is a very convenient formula. I give this fact as an example of the possible costs associated with the liquidation of the Polish Tourist Organization. I know the arguments used by Members of the House for the liquidation of the Polish Tourist Organization. I have a few doubts about them. First of all, even if arguments with low efficiency of POT have any justification, does the Minister consider taking action to improve the functioning of the Polish Tourist Organization and not its liquidation? Secondly, does the Minister believe that the activation and promotion of tourism is a task that should be addressed by the central administration? Shouldn't a non-governmental organisation be involved in this as a rule? And thirdly, does the Ministry have any knowledge of how many funds, apart from budget resources, the Polish Tourism Organization acquires for its activities and does it have a programme equivalent to the continuation of the mission of the Polish Tourism Organization and the maintenance of the partners of this organisation? Please consider in depth whether the attack on the area of tourism promotion will not cause more damage than benefits, and regardless of your requests, please answer the above questions and information about the plans of the Ministry, which I, the Senator, but also a potential member of the board of directors of a large organisation created under the system of regional tourism organisations, will calm down and prevent you from abandoning the creation of a regional tourism organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u17	Thank you, Senator. I'd like you to make a statement to Senator Mark Knock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Prof. Dr. Hab. Piotr Gliński, concerning the sale of real estate in Polanka Hallera in the municipality of Skawina The plot with a palace and farm complex from the 18th and 19th centuries and an unbuilt plot. Dear Minister, As a senator of the country's land, I would like to inform the Minister that during the meeting organized by the Society of Remembrance General Józef Haller and Hallerów in Jurczyce, in the municipality of Skawina, on 10 February this year, the meeting inaugurating the Year of General Józef Haller established by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I received information that the Jagiellonian University, which owns this property, decided to place it for sale. An appropriate resolution on this matter was adopted by the Senate of the Jagiellonian University on 25 January this year. In the local press, announcements have already appeared concerning the submission of offers for purchase of the plot The deadline for sending offers to 1 March and the payment of the deposit by 28 February on which the court and the economic buildings are located. The court and the entire estate had been owned by the Haller family since the end of the 18th century. The last owner was General Stanisław Haller, who was murdered by the Soviets in Katyn in 1940. Stanisław Haller was cousin of General Józef Haller, chief commander of the Polish Army and commander of the Polish Legions, who was born in the nearby Jurczyce. Since 1945, the property has been owned by the Jagiellonian University, which managed it, operating a farm on its territory. The building of the court was used for office and administration purposes. The complex of palace and farm buildings consists of a mansion, a forge, two pigsty houses, a calf, a juniper, a granary, a stable and a barn complex. The property is also composed of a historic park, where platany, red beech and the largest tree magnolia in Małopolska reign. Recently, care work was completed in the park, which restored him to his former charm and beauty. If the sale takes place, the valuable for both historical and architectural reasons and the natural complex will turn into private hands. A similar fate has already been found near the manor house in Jurczyce, where General Józef Haller was born and grew up. For many years the unrealized dream of the local community has been to restore the former glory to these objects and the device in their part of the museum of General Józef Haller and the whole, deserved for Poland, the House of Hallers. I also share the view that although part of this area should be in the hands of the Polish state or at least be accessible to society and perform cultural and educational functions. City Council in Skawina on 22 February this year. adopted a resolution expressing its concern about the intention of the Jagiellonian University to sell the complex of these buildings. On 24 February this year. During the conversation with the rector of the Jagiellonian University, I was informed that the reason for issuing the property for sale was too much financial burden associated with the maintenance of the land and its facilities. In view of the progress of the sales process as well as the short deadlines, I ask the Minister to lean on this matter and take whatever steps you consider appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u19	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a statement addressed to the Ombudsman on the follow-up of the Ombudsman's actions concerning at least 120 convictions with mental disabilities in Polish prisons. Some time ago, there was news in the media that the ombudsman had checked the prisons and revealed that there were at least 120 convicts with serious mental disabilities who should never have gone there. An example was given of a convicted man who was terrified of his situation sitting under his bed. The Ombudsman found 120 convicts, but they're probably not all of them. We welcomed this report and expected that the Ombudsman would take action, but the matter was quiet. We are dealing with some tragic errors of the Polish justice system, which condemns such people and causes their suffering. It was to be expected that the Ombudsman would take intensive action to remedy the harm done to these people and to prevent such abuse of judicial authority in the future. However, nothing about such activities is heard. We're asking you to tell us if you're doing anything about this report, and if you are, then what? Senators Rafał Ambrozik and Marek Pęk signed the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-24-senat-35-3.u21	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 15 minutes 04]]
