ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, please take your seats and keep your conversation quiet, not quiet, just stop talking. In line with yesterday's announcement, we will start today by considering item twenty-second, i.e. information from the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014 to 2023 (with a view to 2025). I also propose a change in the order of consideration of the following laws: the Act amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act and some other laws and its consideration after information on the state of implementation of the National Road Construction Programme; the Law on the amendment of the Law and review it after the Act amending the Package Management Act; the Act amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws and review it after the Law amending the Law. Code of Offences; the Act on the National Institute of Liberty The Centre for Civil Society Development and its review after the Environmental Protection Act. At the end of the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction, we would consider this point after the Act on the National Institute of Freedom. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted this proposal. I can't see, I can't hear. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: information from the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the National Roads Construction Programme for the years 2014 to 2023 (with a view to 2025). I would like to welcome the Undersecretary of State present at the Senate meeting at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit. Please, Minister, take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the government information on the implementation of the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme (with a view to 2025). [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] The programme was adopted by Resolution No 156/2015 on 8 September 2015. The Council of Ministers at that time, adopting the programme, provided for its implementation the amount of PLN 107 billion. The programme indicated a list of road investments, highways, express roads and bypasses to be carried out by 2025. This list was included in Annex 1 to the programme and contained only data on the length of individual sections and years of implementation, but there was no information on the cost of each task. After analyzing the whole scope of Annex 1, and this happened immediately after the start of our work at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, it turned out that the amount of PLN 107 billion provided is diametrically different from the actual expenditure to be incurred in order to implement this programme. The cost assessed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is nearly PLN 200 billion and thus double the financial limit provided. Therefore, in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we have taken steps to identify the most important tasks, the priority tasks which are now the most urgent, and those for which the expenditure has been incurred will have the maximum effect. It was found that the current network of national roads requires the completion of existing motorways, cross-border connections, the relief of agglomeration centres and the initiation of intensive activities concerning the construction of high-speed roads in eastern Poland. This aspect was particularly important. We have prepared a program which aims to carry out a great project, namely the construction of the Via Carpatia road, a project which is to become one of the main tools for the exclusion of Eastern Poland communication, as well as the Via Baltica road, which will solve the same problems in north-eastern Poland. In addition, many steps have been taken concerning the investment process itself and road construction technology. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction is aware that it is not only what is being built that counts, but also how it is built, what lasting effects it has and what benefits money is spent on the whole construction industry, but also on the whole social environment of construction. In early 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has taken measures to optimise the implementation of road investments included in the programme. In January, the steering committee for optimization of road investments started its work, including representatives of contractors and designers from the industry, but also representatives of local authorities, as well as representatives of other investors. The recommendations of the 5 working groups were consulted. They are gradually implemented, implemented. On 30 May 2016, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk appointed an expert council, which is a ministerial body of the Minister. It provides a platform for the exchange of knowledge and experience and provides real opportunities for cooperation between contracting entities and economic operators. In this way, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction restored an open dialogue between the two stages of the investment process, extending the rights of the social side. So far, the expert board has adopted the so-called "experts'. risk allocation. In a different way than before, the risk of individual parties has been presented. This is extremely important in the context of contracts, as in previous years all the investment risk has been passed on to contractors. Hence, among others. these very dramatic situations that took place in 2012 and 2014 when hundreds of companies went bankrupt and we were dealing with dramatic situations in which I would say a bit publicistic The construction of Polish roads flowed with blood. [[Voice from the room: And the suicides were.]] Yes, there were also suicides. There were 2 identified suicides of entrepreneurs who could not withstand the pressure that arose when they could not receive their wages and were unable to fulfil their obligations, such as taxes. On the basis of documents drawn up by the expert board, the first tendering procedures were prepared for sections of Via Baltica. They were also used in subsequent invitations to tender. However, these actions are processes whose fruits we will not be able to notice for some time. Road construction, however, is one of the main drivers of supporting and stimulating the national economy, and therefore it was impossible to wait only for ideal solutions to be developed. We had to make decisions, we had to continue construction. And that's what we're doing. As well as making new investments. Therefore, And it's a great success. On 20 June 2017, the Council of Ministers decided to increase the current limit from PLN 107 billion to PLN 135 billion. As a result, on the basis of the analysis carried out, with a view to the transparency of the decision-making process, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction identified further investments that could be made within the extended limit. The main change made to the programme is the breakdown into 2 groups of investment tasks under Annex 1. The first group of tasks is the most important road tasks, which will be carried out within the framework of the measures provided, within an increased limit of PLN 135 billion. The increased financial limit allows the implementation of new sections of express roads, especially in Eastern Poland. And I would like to stress this: especially in Eastern Poland, which for many years has been communicated to the margin. It is mainly about the expressway S19, leading along the eastern border of the Republic of Poland: from the border with Slovakia through Rzeszów, Lublin, Białystok and further north. Part of this communication artery has already been given, while the part between Lublin and Rzeszow is under construction. Added further sections, which may be within the increased limit realized: the border of the state of Białystok; Białystok, Lubartów, Choroszcz section Ploski Clebczyn, section border of Podlaskie Voivodship (Łosice) The border of Lublin Voivodship, the border of Mazowieckie and Lublin Voivodship, the Lubart Node of the North; the Lublin Rudnik Node, without the North Node; the South Rzeszów Node Babica knot, including Babica knot, to Barwinek. In addition, we will add investments supporting the Via Carpatia corridor in the form of the following sections of the A2 motorway and the S17 expressway: A2, the end of the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki Siedlce; A2, Siedlce, Biała Podlaska, knot Cicibor; S17, Sands, Hrebenne. In addition, after assessing current network needs, to the list of priorities to be addressed in the first place, i.e. within the limit of PLN 135 billion, the following investments have been added. First of all, investments complementing the strings: S3, Świnoujście, Troszyn, S7, Gdańsk, Warsaw, Płońsk, Czosnów section; S11, Koszalin West node, without the node Bobolice node; S16, Borki Wielkie S17, Drewnica knot corner; S52, North Kraków ring; S74, Kielce crossroads/Mniów; DK75, section Brzesko, Nowy Sącz. Secondly, new bypasses have been added in national roads: the Olesna bypass; the Chełma bypass; the Opatowa bypass; the Krajny Sępólna bypass and the Krajny stone bypass; the Zator bypass; the New Sącz and Chełmc bypass; the Kędzierzyn-Koźl bypass; the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie bypass; the Radom bypass; the Prąszka bypass; the Niemodlin bypass; the Myślina bypass; the Kołbielia bypass; the Łochowa bypass; the Moravica and Wola Morawiecka bypass; the Poręba and Zawiercie bypass. The second group of tasks are projects which are currently not feasible within the limits of the appropriations set. Their construction will be possible in the event of additional funding being released in the framework of the tasks carried out. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction will keep up to date monitoring the state of preparation of these projects. This does not mean that work on these investments has been stopped. Currently, despite only the third year of implementation of the programme, further invitations to tender and subsequent contracts are gradually announced and further investments are put into service. So far, 19 tasks worth PLN 7 billion 270 million have been completed under the current programme, which is about 225 km long. The implementation includes 91 tasks worth PLN 48 billion 200 million, a length of 1 thousand 230 km. In the tender there are 51 tasks worth PLN 27 billion 950 million, the length is 694 km. The bid is expected to be worth PLN 50 billion 740 million. From November to the end of 2015 contracts were signed for 54 km, the value of expenditure on implementation is about PLN 5.5 billion. These are episodes S2: section A, i.e. Puławska, without the node of Przyczółkowa, without the node; section B, i.e. the node Przyczółkowa The Miedzeszyński Wał is 6.5 km, and the expenditure is PLN 1 billion 368 million; section C, i.e.Wał Miedzeszyński, is all the South Circuit of Warsaw, Lubelska, expenditure on implementation is PLN 1 billion 179 million. Next are: S6, Kolobrzeg West Node The Ustronie node, together with the construction of the Kołobrzeg ring road on the national road no. 11, is 18 km and the expenditure on the implementation is PLN 445 million; the construction of the Wałcz ring road is 17 km 800 m and the expenditure on the implementation is PLN 517 million. In 2016, we signed a contract for tasks of a total length of 263 km and worth PLN 10 billion 500 million. These are: the section of the A1 motorway, the Node of Profession Wozniki node, expenditure on implementation is PLN 634 million; S3, Not to advise on the voivodeship road 283, 17 km 300 m, expenditure on implementation is PLN 229 million; S5, Wronczyn Kaczkowo, 63 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 1 billion 680 million; S6, Koszalin and Sianowa ring road on S6 together with section S11, Bielice node Koszalin West node, 20 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 792 million; S7, Lubień Rabka, 16 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 2 billion 350 million; S8, Radziejowice, close to 10 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 421 million; S8, Wyszków, border of voivodeship, 38,5 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 1 billion 257 million; S17, Lubelska node in Warsaw Garwolin, 36 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 1 billion 243 million; S51, Olsztyn East Olsztyn South, 16 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 1 billion 89 million; Kalwaria Mountain bypass within DK50, 9 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 364 million; Sanoka bypass within DK28, the length of this section is PLN 6 km 700 m and expenditure on implementation is PLN 206 million; Bolkowa bypass by road number 3 and national road number 5, this section is 5 km 700 m, expenditure on implementation is PLN 87 million; Tarnowska Dąbrowa ring road within DK73 with a length of PLN 7 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 95 million 500 000. In 2017, we signed contracts for tasks of a total length of 110 km. Their total value is PLN 4 billion 300 million. These are: S61, the end of the bypass of Suwałk. Budzisko; S61, the section of the bypass of Szczuczyna, the second road, 6 km 600 m, expenditure on implementation is PLN 92 million; section A2, Lubelska node Konik node, these are the vicinity of Warsaw, 5 km 600 m, expenditure on implementation is 364 million PLN; also A2, Konik node The ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki, 9.2 km, expenditure is 463 million PLN; S7, airport node Lesznowola, 6 km 600 m, expenditure 491 million PLN; S7, Lesznowola node Tarczyn knot, almost 15 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 592 million; S7, section Tarczyn North knot The beginning of the Grójce bypass, 8 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 370 million; S17, Lubelska node, 2 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 298 million; construction of the viaduct in Legionów within DK61, third stage, expenditure in the order of PLN 68 million; second stage of the Inowroclaw bypass, DK15 with DK25, close to 5 km, expenditure on implementation is PLN 126 million; construction of the Stalowa Wola and Minsk bypass within DK77, 15 km 300 meters; expenditure is PLN 279 million; construction of the S3/A6, section of the Kiev node, expenditure on implementation is PLN 86 million; construction of the S3/A6, section of the Kievo junction - Oak. - Oak. Szczesnica, 3.5 km, expenditure is PLN 51 million; construction of the second road bypass Kobylanka, Morzyczyna, Zieleniawa, 6 km 400 m, expenditure on the implementation of 86 million. In total from November 2015 to today contracts for over PLN 20 billion were signed for 428 km long roads. I will also mention that we are planning to sign several dozen contracts this year, which will add very significant values to these amounts. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The National Road Construction Programme is one of the most important government documents, the most important government programs. He's in the spotlight of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, but also the entire government. I am firmly convinced that to this limit, when we are able to... When we demonstrate that we are able to carry out the tasks entrusted to us efficiently, this limit can be increased even more, as the needs of road construction are enormous. Each built, new section of express road or national road primarily improves the economic situation, economic situation, accessibility, but also improves safety. Thanks to this, the communication coherence of Poland is increasing. All this causes that we are dealing with well spent money, which not only give such a direct, tangible effect, but also additional effects, which can be easily assessed and which are very positive received by Poles, by our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I?]] Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister a question? Mr. Senator Pup. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's another...]] [[Voice from the room: I was the first.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. Okay, Mr. Senator Pupa, and then the Senators of the Swede, Florek... Okay, I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And you have to look at this side. Mr. Marshal was first.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, that was before.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Ladies and gentlemen, I am not running away so I will answer.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, yes, just a moment, just a moment... [[Voice from the hall: Minister will respond to everyone.]] The Minister will answer to everyone, and I will give everyone the floor. Because I didn't know there was a list, I gave the floor to Senator Pupa and then to the marshal. Mr. Marshal is about to take the lead, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Exactly. Well, there you go, and then it's on the list, okay? You're welcome, Senator Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u4	Minister, the Ministry's plans are And it's already being built, you can say the S19 expressway. It is an extremely important road, important not only for Podkarpacie, my territory, but also for the whole of Poland. This is done as part of the construction of the Via Carpatia road. Actually, that's why the Subcarpathian is... We are all pleased that this road, you can say, will open us to the world, will open the Podkarpacie north and south of Europe. There's another topic we have to deal with. Namely, it is about road connections with Warsaw. You can say that half of the voivodship does not have a good connection with Warsaw. Thanks to Via Carpatia, the eastern voivodship will be able to reach Warsaw in a reasonably favorable way, while the western districts of the Podkarpackie voivodship will have a problem because they must overwhelm 60 km, 70 km, and maybe more km to reach Warsaw Via Carpatia. Therefore, it would be extremely important to make an effort to build a road to Radom, not to Warsaw, but to Radom. It's enough for us to get to Radom. And then the situation will be resolved. I think as the only voivodship... I mean, as a voivodship city, we don't have a good direct road connection to Warsaw. It's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u5	So that's the question of whether there's a possibility of such an investment... [[Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.]] ...about the road to Radom. Good. Thank you very much. You're Marshal Sewerinski. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u6	Minister, the program you presented is impressive. Yeah, but we're all somehow connected to our circles, hence such detailed questions. I know that on the western ring road of Łódź there were originally 6 exits planned, and at the moment their number was limited to 4. Everyone's asking me to ask if this is the final decision, and there's no hope that these two towns that have been deprived of these reunions... Are they gonna be taken off this highway by now? Can we count on positive changes in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about my district, too. I represent the district of Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki and tenants. National road No 8 on Wrocław line Kłodzko is particularly important to us because there are actually many accidents there. I asked for it earlier... I know that now, in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Wrocław, there is a document being drawn up considering 6 variants of the reconstruction of this road. And I'd like to ask you this. How's she in the program? When could we possibly count on the start of the investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u9	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question about the connection between the western part of Podkarpackie Voivodship and Radom, from the centre of Poland. There is no doubt that such a need exists. I think, for example, that it will be... already being realized... that a few weeks ago a contract was signed for the construction of the Steel Wola and Niska ring road, as well as a partial response to this request. Driving through Stalowa Wola and Lowko has always been a problem, and for decades efforts have been made in this area. A contract was signed today. And I think that under normal procedures, all of this will be realized maybe later this year... Well, this year we're not gonna kick... The project work will begin first, because it is implemented in the design and build system, but I think that next year, somewhere in the middle of next year, it will already be possible to start the realization of this physical investment. These next episodes, which connect, bring Radom closer, will be followed up. We in all the plans we're talking about... If there's no way today that we can... I'll use the clues here, if your marshal will allow, my co-workers. You're Director Waszkiewicz. Because knowledge always... knowledge must be developed, right? As for the merger of south-central Poland, namely Radom and Kielce, here we actually have a problem with the roads that are in relation to the east. Okay, let's go, let's go, The S7 road solves the problem of communication to Warsaw and communication to the south. Indeed, we see these needs. Preparatory work is underway for many of these episodes. I hope that when the financial means allow us to do so, such measures will be taken and some of these measures will be taken... Part of this road is already included in the programme, but unfortunately it is not provided for. But if it is entered, it is known that it is taken into account and that the roads that connect this part of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship will be implemented. The western ring road of Łódź, which is S14. Indeed, measures have been taken to reduce construction costs as far as this investment is concerned. I will remind you that when we looked at this and subjected this project to a very deep analysis, it turned out that the cost of building 1 km of this expressway, including the purchase of land, amounted to more than 70 million PLN. These are absolutely unacceptable costs. What was the result? Well, from the technical assumptions, many nodes that were designed there, as well as from the whole way of designing this road. We've made a decision to make a quick optimization of this project here. She was done. There's been an invitation to tender. Today we are in the process of settling this invitation to tender. The delays there are due to the fact that the contractors have submitted more than 4 000 questions to the specifications presented. Every question has to be answered, every question needs to be analyzed, which is why it takes a while. But still today I spoke to Director Tomaszewski, Director-General of the Directorate-General in Łódź, and he assured that in November the examination of all these questions, i.e. answering them, will be completed, and it will be possible to proceed to the next stage of the tender. We're determined. I'm talking about the ministry. To carry out this investment to build this road. Number of nodes. We've always said that... it's an express road, so it has to be a transit road and it has to communicate with each other these major centers, their functions combined. However, we do not rule out the possibility of going back to the nodes, although perhaps they would no longer be knots of such a technically rich shape. But here must be the contribution of local governments, as we have said many times. And they were certain, I would say, collisions, because as we said to the local governments, they were written, formal speeches. If the Łódź authorities are interested... The question is, are they ready for this kind of financial contribution? The answers to that or there wasn't, or they were very abstinent. For our part there is a desire to talk, but first of all we need to conduct this tender today, sign a contract and implement this investment. This is our main task. I think that the project in this shape, which has been accepted, provides communication for the western part of Łódź, and that is the most important thing for us. This is to communicate the A2 motorway with the S8 road, which leads to the southwest of Poland. In addition, the so-called "Łódź" will be built around Łódź. ring. Well, such a ring can be dreamed of by other cities in Poland. No city in Poland has such a classic road ring around its territory. Warsaw is far away, far behind, but it is for completely different reasons. As regards the national road No 8, this section is included in the programme and is scheduled to be implemented after 2020. Preparatory work is underway. Unfortunately, they must always last several months and sometimes even several dozen months. It also depends on how quickly we can deal with environmental matters, nature conservation. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u11	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Florek a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, first of all, thank you for declaring that this 135 billion PLN by 2023 is not the last word and if it turns out that the money is in the budget... I'm sure they'll be very much needed. We remember the 2015 programme. You said now that 107 million, 200 million... there's always some savings on investments. Now it's probably gonna be a little harder, but the most important thing is documentation, ZRID, land buyout. This has to be ready. As soon as the measures are in place, it will be possible to implement them. I would like to ask, Minister, about a path you did not mention, namely the S11 road. The S11 road is to be exactly 550 km long. She leads from Silesia to the sea, to Koszalin, and runs all over Wielkopolska. In the previous 2015 programme, it was mentioned that STEŚ, i.e. technical and environmental studies, will be carried out on the entire section of the S11 road. I would like to know what the situation is right now, what will possibly be prepared, because I have heard about 20 million PLN for some preparatory work. This road is very well covered, there is a very high traffic intensity especially during the summer period, as we all know. We've got a very difficult episode there. From the bypass of western Poznań, which is built along the S11 road, to Obornik Wielkopolski. A dozen episodes... From what I remember, the Oborniki Bridge on Warta is already in catastrophic condition, and the possible exclusion of this bridge from use will result in a communications paralysis of the entire part of the country, especially during the summer period. It is a connection between the south of Wielkopolska and the north, especially with Koszalin, Kolobrzeg, and the region of the Central Coast. I'd like to know if they're... Because you haven't mentioned once, and I see that there isn't any here, except to finish those that have already been started... Jarocin, Ostrów Wielkopolski... But we also have a bypass in Szczecin, which is in realization, and in Kępno there is a fragment. What's next with the entire S11 road, and especially with this most urgent section: the western ring road, Oborniki? Not to mention the further part, the outlet of the saw. I think you're Senator Augustine. That's exactly what he's gonna ask. Thank you. And if, Minister, it would be difficult to answer this question, then I would have a request that he may answer in writing, as it may be with the S11 route, what is the perspective, especially with regard to this first episode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u13	We'll ask Senator Slugocki for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, Minister, maybe I'll start with the general questions and then, of course, because I'm a senator from a certain district, and I'll ask for specific investments. But I think that these generals are very important in terms of Poles' expectations. The first question, Minister, concerns the state of implementation of the investments in the framework of the road construction programme. As we know, Minister, the construction market, at least that's what the media reported, has recently shrunk by around 25%. This may cause concern, because thousands of Poles are exempt from these economic operators, which not only complicates the situation of these individuals, but also concerns a little in the context of European measures. After all, we are aware that in the Operational Programme the infrastructure and the environment for the implementation of road infrastructure as part of priority III of the development of the road network and multimodal transport, we have PLN 9 billion 532 million. I would like to ask what is the state of completion of investments co-financed by European funds, not only the Operational Programme, infrastructure and environment, but also the CEF, i.e. the Connecting Europe Facility, Connecting Europe. Another question, Minister: isn't there a risk of losing funds? I realize, of course, that investment in this perspective is implemented in accordance with principle n+3, i.e. 2020 plus 3, so in substance, the financial investments will be completed in 2023. But in this context, the next question arises: aren't you afraid, Minister, that investment will accumulate and the supply of investment in the construction market will be so high that unit value will increase, and the construction operators will have so many investments to make that they will not be competitive, so that the cost of building a kilometer of road can be much more expensive? That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u15	The last in a series of 3 questions. Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there's an S3 in my district, an expressway that's being realized. We are very serious about the bypass of Gorzów Wielkopolski. This is my district, number 21. The original date of completion of the construction, Minister, by Strabag company, a large concern, so-called. the contractual term, was in April this year, but to this day it is infinite. It was Golgotha. Almost the whole country that was rushing to the sea, the heavy traffic... Minister, two questions. When's the deadline for opening this ring road? And my second question is: will Strabag, such a serious company, known not only in the country but also in the world, bear the consequences? Because the obstacles and anger of the sea were felt in all interviews on TV and radio.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u17	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u18	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will begin, according to the order of question, with expressway 11. The whole chain of this road is in the National Roads Construction Programme, the one we are discussing today, but of course to varying degrees of implementation. The limit is intended to be implemented ..and the resources are provided for it. The section between Koszalin and Bobolicy and the Szczecinek ring road, which is already under way. So when it comes to this very difficult one, especially during the summer period, as the senator mentioned, the section has already been decided, funding has been provided, so it will be implemented. Preparatory work is underway for the rest of the S11. Where our predecessors had not conducted them at all, or their pace in recent times has been very slow. A decision has been made... Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has made such a decision that the S11 road will be prepared for its full length, also where these preparations have not yet been or have been at a very early stage. And this is actually the main limitation in terms of the realization of this path. As well as many other sections of roads in Poland. The social needs are obvious, they are obvious, but when the question arises, we are unfortunately unable to answer that in a year's time, in two years' time, because the process of preparing the documentation, the preparation of the construction is unfortunately at such a stage that it is not clear to say that the work will be undertaken within a year or two years. But our goal, our ambition, is to prepare these documents where today there is no chance of making investments, for example because of the lack of relevant documents. The point is that we can proceed with these investments in the next perspective and in the next programme. Unless this programme can be expanded and, above all, increased the financial limit for its implementation. Still such a very detailed information regarding the Bobolice Szczecinek section: there is already an environmental decision, and further sections are prepared with STEŚ documentation, i.e. technical and economical environmental study and environmental decision. Question about S3 and the Gorzow ring road... Here I have very good news: this investment is actually completed, you can say, the work is being received. That is why it takes so long that there were reservations about certain elements in terms of performance, but at the beginning of October it is planned to start this route and finally the problem that the senator was talking about will be solved. As far as the more general question is concerned, the senator asked about the consequences for executive companies that fail to comply with their contracts, extending the deadlines for implementation. I'd say this is a two-way street. There are situations where this happens for objective reasons. Sometimes it is that the documentation is not well prepared or that problems arise during construction processes, which really could not be predicted, and then we have to face the fact that these deadlines will be shifted. For nearly 100 investments that are being implemented today, such significant delays that may affect the fact that the investment will not be completed on time, we have in the case of a few, maybe a dozen or so. Because it's hard to think that the situation is very bad if we have another year and a half before the construction is completed. Of course, this may also be the case, but we are talking primarily about those when the deadline is approaching and we see that there is a problem with completion. In general, I would say this: on the Polish road construction market, there are 2 types of companies. One group of companies primarily benefits from its capital, its executive and hardware potential. Here these problems are much less. But there is a group of foreign companies, which unfortunately are not able to benefit from their own potential in Poland and rely either entirely, or in ninety-several percent on subcontractors. Then there are actually a lot of problems. And on these several or several constructions that these companies carry out, we need to take different actions to discipline these companies to do everything according to the deadline and quality requirements. The specific question that came up about Strabag's company... We're investigating, of course. If it turns out that the delay occurred because of the company itself, it will, in accordance with the contract, suffer certain consequences, then it is natural. The question about the use of European funds. The Directorate-General is the largest beneficiary, it is the Directorate-General that uses the most resources of the European Union. So far, in the present perspective, we have received a refund of about 20 billion PLN, so this is really very important measures. This is about half of the resources allocated to road construction in Poland in this perspective, and we still have a few years to make the right use of the other half. Moreover, the Ministry of Development, which is the manager of the measures and oversees their use, has repeatedly stressed that it is road construction that is the engine which, when it comes to the implementation of EU funds for investment, is a strong leader. But I think the situation is getting better and better on the railroad, too, and I don't think there'll be any problems to use that money. The senator raised a very important problem, namely the question of accumulation of works. Indeed, now that we have such gigantic investment processes I have already mentioned this, the investments are at the level of nearly PLN 50 billion always the danger of cumulation with all these consequences. We're trying to prevent this from happening by planning investments so that there's no uproar. And if we compare the expenses that were last year and that are this year, then we'll see that they will stay at a similar level. And it will create, I hope, just such a peaceful, stable situation in the construction industry, so that And I totally agree with that, so the prices were not artificially elevated, so that the market could provide the right amount of steel, cement, other equipment that is necessary for the construction of roads. For example, the transport of aggregates has proved to be a very serious problem lately, because the increased repair of railway lines makes it more difficult for the railway to carry these millions of cubic meters of aggregates, and they must be transported. And all of this is a giant process that we need to control. We are fully aware of this, we are in cooperation with the industry, our plans are open, we inform the public about the contracts being opened, the industry is well aware of the situation, including our investment intentions, the amount of... Now we see that the last 2 years are actually a period of calm work on Polish constructions, in road construction. As always, there are problems, as always, there are different problems, but the scale of these problems in relation to what was still 4 or 5 years ago, is already completely different, we are in a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u19	Now you're asking Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u20	Minister, there are two major problems, of course. costs and preparation of investments. On this first point also from you, but also from many politicians we have heard criticism of the implementation of investments in previous governments. You said the cost of building a kilometer was extremely high. Hence my question: how much did the cost of building one kilometer reduce and are there savings for this? What's that gonna do for us at the construction site? As far as costs are concerned, I would also like to ask if the latest tenders show the same thing as other infrastructure buildings, as reported by local government officials in my district. Tenders are cancelled, almost one after the other, because the proposed amounts are too low in the opinion of the contractors. Prices have definitely gone up, at least in our neighborhood. I don't think we're alone here. What does it look like in road construction? And the specific question is about the S11 road, but the specific sections. I cannot agree with such a general statement that we are not doing this way because there is no preparation. This does not apply to all episodes, not only episodes from Szczecinka to Bobolic, where preparations are advanced. Minister, I've been looking for this episode from Szczecin to Bobolic in this material we have, and it's gone. You say he'll be done, but I don't find him here. So I don't know what's true. Is paper telling the truth or taking your word for it? After all the arrangements there is an estuary bypass. Why isn't she scheduled to be implemented? I don't get it at all. The work that Senator Florek mentioned concerning the crossing of the Warta in Oborniki is similarly advanced. Minister, we're in danger of a communication attack. There's an enormous amount of traffic out there. You probably know that. It's the only crossing within a distance of maybe 30 kilometers, and it's both ways. There's no way out. This viaduct won't hold up to the next financial perspective, it's not possible. Why is it not included in the implementation? Do you really ignore this threat? This is a very urgent investment that needs to be made. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u21	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u22	My district, called Poland, authorizes me to ask such questions. Firstly, are there no risks to the budget and to the Brexit National Road Fund? Secondly, the question is: what about the fate of the government's misguided initiative to follow the schetiny, which is to pay an additional fee for petrol for the construction of local roads? Is the government working, as promised, on another solution? Because, of course, there is no doubt that without the money these new local roads will not be built. Finally, thirdly, the question... In this district called Poland I refer to Senator Augustine's statement here... it's an observation: every highway or highway is every viaduct. I'm not talking about bridges. It has a different design, another architecture. I know it's pretty, but I know it's very expensive. When you see roads in the west of Europe, you can see that this is standardized. It can be said that conveyor belts are produced in similar conditions. Poland has no different geological conditions... [[Ma.]] There isn't. It's mostly flat ground, isn't it? This isn't Switzerland. Whether with the seas or with the bays... So that's the cost. Fourthly, also the problem in Poland, i.e. in my district, is the lack of an idea to connect many cities by the road of rapid traffic, i.e. S10, from Szczecin to Warsaw. This is also, of course, a specific alternative to already blocking communication and port solutions in Gdańsk, in particular I look here a little bit at Bydgoszcz and Toruń... at the S10 section between Bydgoszcz and Toruń, which is not expensive, has very good geological conditions, and even there are no documentation works in the plans. Finally, the topic: Poland... I'm going back to that. This is also the case with previous governments That the construction of S5 on the Poznań section of Bydgoszcz...sorry, Poznan, Wrocław. Honestly, if you're talking about stepping up work on the east wall, Which is good, because maybe it'll activate this area. The principle of political discrimination vis-à-vis these two cities can certainly be accepted. Maybe you can explain why it's so snaily. In the so-called. There is nothing good about a good change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u23	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm going to bring up one thread that Senator Rulewski has already mentioned here. Are you going to do something that would be beneficial for the development of the local road network? Any initiative involving... I'm a hot supporter. I think you're the minister too. Putting in zlotys from the state budget and expecting more zlotys from local governments, because it gives good results. Are you predicting an increase in this pot for next year? Because we have fought for this in our previous term of office, more or less effectively, but I think it's still worth talking about, Minister. Will you increase the pool to support the development of local roads? That's one question. And second question. Minister, this is about the S6. Well, I think she's been discussed here a lot. Could you say a few words about the prospects of Eastern communication? Okay, let's go, let's in the northern part of Poland? I don't think we need to explain how important this investment is because of the development of this region. What is happening today on the roads of Pomerania, especially as regards May, June, July, August and September, shows that the S6 road should, however, be one of the priorities. Could the Minister say a few words about your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u25	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u26	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by the order of the questions. Senator Augustine asked about construction costs. Yes, indeed, those costs that have been incurred in previous years were far too high, so we have taken a great deal of action to reduce them. One of these actions concerns the optimisation projects that are being prepared today, but also the typization projects. That's one of the senators' statements, too. Catalogs of typical bridges and standards are already being developed, which will determine this. Because last year a law was adopted which gives the minister the opportunity to do so, we will benefit from it. Two such studies have already been adopted and work is underway on the next. The costs of these tenders, which have already been announced under new conditions, are lower. I think that this is due to our actions, and also from the industry's awareness that we are changing the terms of contracts to those that are more beneficial to the contractor, because the risk is spread evenly. And that, among other things. makes the prices proposed by the contractors really closer to the real costs. I would also like to say here that in the recent period of several dozen tendering procedures, we have paid very much attention to the issue of the lowest price, grossly the lowest price, and we have treated very rigorously those companies which presented these lowest prices. They had to explain very carefully, very carefully why they were prepared to make a given investment at a price that we think is far too low. And many offers have been rejected, which will, of course, result in higher contract prices, but taking into account all the risks and lessons we have received I mean these situations in previous years, however, we considered that it is sometimes worth paying a solid company a few or even tens of millions more, but for this to be guaranteed, to be sure that this company will carry out the investment on time, on time and in accordance with quality requirements, as well as to meet its obligations towards the subcontractors, in relation to suppliers, will pay taxes and will continue to operate on the Polish market. These situations that were before are absolutely unacceptable, and we must remember that too, because it is not only that there is the lowest price that has been bid out there, because then the investment has to be realized for this price. As for the S11 issue that has already been raised here, maybe, I don't know, I was wrong, and maybe the senator misunderstood. I'll say it again, then. As far as the Bobolice Szczecin episode is concerned, it is on the program, but on the reserve list, but there is indeed an environmental decision. Let me remind you that episode of Koszalin Bobolice will be implemented and funding will be provided for this. As far as the remaining sections are concerned, it is not possible to implement them today, because there is simply no proper preparation. But this. Okay, I'm gonna stress this one more time. It does not mean that there are any hesitations as to the necessity and purpose of implementing these investments. They will be realized. The earliest time limits for the announcement of tenders are at the end of 2020 and this will be in the next perspective. Preparatory work on the S11 is absolutely one of the priority tasks. As far as the issue of manure is concerned, we do see this problem. I think there will also be decisions in this case, because they are really necessary. Questions asked by Senator Rulewski about Brexit... This is a matter that is being discussed today. As we know, the United Kingdom is negotiating with the European Union the conditions for its exit from the Union. I think we just need to be aware that if we actually find that some kind of reduction in resources is going to happen... We're just getting ready for this. And we're getting ready so that we just want to use the money we have at our disposal as soon as possible to use it. We as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction do not do any additional work, simply as soon as possible, as efficiently as possible, implement our investments, both those resulting from the PAIiIZ programme and those resulting from the CEF programme. As far as CEF is concerned, we are in the middle of a bid for Via Baltica. There are these investments made, we have asked for more money and hopefully we will get them and we will be able to do so. I'm guessing that the Senator is talking about the programme of modernization of municipal and district roads. This year the tasks for 800 million PLN are completed. A similar amount is also planned next year. Let us hope that in 2019 the amount to support the modernisation of municipal and district roads will be higher. 2018 is a year that, of course, poses a number of budgetary challenges, and we have to accept that. I'll go back to... [[It's an extra charge...]] Yeah, to the parliamentary law that talked about creating a local government fund. I'm only presenting my personal opinion now. I think it was a good idea, I think we should think about it, but the decision is clear: it has been withdrawn. And here I'm going to say that I'm a little surprised; here I'm going to allow myself to present a personal feeling. 'Cause if it were in public... If this idea had appeared somewhere in the form of a bill, if there had been more solid discussion on this subject, not a scream that this is a great harm and that Polish transport would fall, that here Polish families would be bankrupt, because this fund would start functioning, it would simply, I think, be a completely different social feeling. Because I will remind you that this project would allow us to implement support for nearly 6 000 km of municipal and district roads within a year, so we could simply change the face of Polish road infrastructure. And really, all those who screamed so loud, let them take it on their consciences. Let me just say this: take this, the state, on your consciences, those who were so outraged then, that here is some terrible thing going on in Poland, and you said that this project is to be rejected. He's been rejected. We need to look for other ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the S10 route between Bydgoszcz and Torun... [[Szczecin and Warsaw, including Bydgoszcz.]] Okay, good. Then maybe an episode of Szczecin. She's been drinking. Yesterday I signed a document on the transfer of funds, nearly 20 million PLN, for preparatory work on the S10 section between Szczecin and Piła, so this is a concrete step towards this investment. Of course, the most crucial and expected is the combination of the Toruń-Bedgo agglomeration. I don't want to put myself in harm's way here, not to Toruni, not to Bydgoszcz, but... [[Here's the deal.]] It's okay here, and I'm very happy for you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that I had the honour of signing the preparatory work programme as well. They're being run right now, and they'll be over by the end of next year, I hope. Of course, provided that there are no additional obstacles, because unfortunately during preparatory work something can always occur, especially as regards environmental matters, matters of agreement, unfortunately there are very different experiences in this regard. In any case, it's already under way. We also proposed, at the request of the Ministry of Development, to consider whether this investment could not be realised within the framework of a public-private partnership. In this regard, additional work is underway, and we are investigating how real this is. This would certainly mean that the investment would be made out of money outside the road construction programme. But residents, users may care less about what program, as long as this road was created as soon as possible and served both the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and Torun and Torun and Bydgoszcz, as well as the entire north-central Poland, because it is an extremely important communication artery. Question about the way of Poznan Wrocław. I really do not see any discrimination between western and southern Poland as regards road investments. The investment on the S5 between Poznań and Wrocław, except for one segment, is normally, positively implemented. There's actually a problem in one episode. This is a problem arising from the functioning of one of the performers, as I have already talked a little bit about. This is the contractor who does not have its potential in Poland and relies on subcontractors. And here we've created a special monitoring system: I'm sorry every day, once a week I'm meeting with the entire board of directors and we're discussing the general situation in terms of construction, the implementation of the program. In addition, once a month, we meet with the directors of the various branches of the Directorate-General, very often also Minister Andrzej Adamczyk participates in these meetings. And we're discussing every investment. I would like to stress: any investment Its state of progress, the problems that have arisen, and we solve these problems. Indeed, in the case of a few of them, I stress that there are problems with a few investments, and that is why we are taking different actions. We are considering the most radical solutions, i.e. the removal of unreliable contractors from construction sites where we see that they are simply not able to meet the contracts they have committed themselves to, in time and in accordance with quality requirements, with technical requirements. S6. The section from Szczecin to Koszalin is in progress. The companies are already carrying out this construction. There was a very serious problem because of the geological problem with the Koszalin ring road. Now that it has been completed, it turned out that under the forecasted route of the bypass, which will run north of Koszalin, at a depth of 20 m is an underground lake. This means the need to carry out additional work that will extend the duration of this investment and, unfortunately, will be linked to the need to bear additional costs. These are the problems that are objective, independent of us. We are simply not able to predict during the study, when conducting routine geological tests, that such a situation will occur. Unfortunately, that's where she came in. From this point on, there is a clear problem that we need to solve. But it's fortunate that today this episode can be separated from the entire investment. The movement will then move toward the east. The west of the current route, which runs that way, is not ideal, but it is. So that there will be no additional movement, so to speak, released in Koszalin and all the problems involved. With regard to the further implementation of this investment, going towards the Tricity, the programme also provides for further implementation, going east, but we have proposed this as one of the projects to be implemented in the format of the public-private partnership. And the research and preparation of this project is underway. At the final stage of the tender, i.e. In fact, this tender is almost complete... We are going to open the S6 road, which will move from the Tricity, from the node in Gdynia through Kashuby It's going to be called. the Kashubian route and will end before Lębork. So, when it comes to this problem and the solution to traffic, the improvement of traffic in the northern part of the Tricity, we are already working towards this solution. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we are conducting preparatory work, as part of a very good cooperation with the city of Gdynia, in order to determine the route so-called. Via Maris, which is the route that will lead the traffic from Gdynia, from the port of Gdynia, which is already very much in need of such a communication breath towards Władysławów, to the north. We are still discussing the technical conditions of this route, the method of financing, the scope, but the work is moving in the right direction and I hope that this problem will also be resolved. I will also mention the second ring road of the Tricity, also along the S6 road. So it's this parallel to the current Tri-City ring road. We have a blocked environmental decision at the moment as a result of an appeal in court, the hearing is scheduled for next spring, but this decision will determine our further action as regards the second Tri-City ring road.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u27	Next round of questions... [[Sir...]] Mr. Senator wanted to clarify something?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u28	Minister... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if I may remind you of the Minister... Because Mr. Rulewski was talking about a financial undertaking to get money to support local roads. And you said it didn't come in for different reasons. Okay... Doesn't mean I'm saying it's okay, it's just that yes, it didn't come in, that's a fact. But my question, Minister, was this: whether you provide for a minister to fight for it and if it is possible to make a commitment that, with a good budget, this amount will support local road initiatives, which, as you said, is a good undertaking in terms of the idea Is there any chance of an increase in the 2018 budget for this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u29	The 2018 budget is already basically... Yesterday, the government adopted the budget and the funds that were included in this year's budget for the implementation of these investments were guaranteed at the same level. So for now, we have to stick to that height. However, I think that when we go through 2018, which will actually be very difficult for a number of budgetary reasons. The High House, I think, is aware of the objective changes and the expenditure that the budget will have to bear. We will certainly try to return to the increased expenditure on road construction and the support of local authorities, because that is simply the need. And we're gonna pick it up. But, of course, we want to behave rationally and honestly, we want to talk about specifics, every dollar will be very useful to us, which is why we will be seeking every dollar, but within the framework of normal government policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u30	The next round of questions will begin with Senator Silencer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u31	Minister, I have two regional issues. A18 motorway, branch A4 towards Berlin. There's still a time shift. There's no mention of that in your materials. The second question is a little bit related to it, because if that highway were made and they call it a Patatajka or a road for tanks, because it's in such a terrible condition... At this point, it was as if the problem with the highway section had been further highlighted. A4 Legnica Wroclaw, which was built about 20 years ago if it was refreshed without an emergency belt. After closing the Przeworsk section Jarosław A4 is the only freeway from east to west right now, and I drive it, and I notice that the traffic on this highway seems to have doubled, so that at the moment the right lane is practically busy all the time. The lack of an emergency belt causes a slight contusion to cause an embolism. I have messages about the situation on A4, and that's why I can say there's not a day that doesn't have any one incident. And most often there are more of them that block traffic on this road. And the third question, of a general nature. The government and citizens, together we will complain about the issue of private motorways in Poland and charges. In Switzerland, a 14-month vignette costs 150 PLN. And what costs are in Poland, we know. Is there a strategic goal to restore Poland's control of key roads? And in what perspective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u32	You're asking Senator Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a brief question. Why should Via Carpatia, the one that needs the Eastern bus, end in Klaipeda and not in the Polish port? That's what's bothering me. Freezing of the Koszalin section Gdansk, S6, is part of something that voters in Pomerania and Western Pomerania perceive as political revenge and marginalization of Gdansk. You're welcome, too. And I'm gonna ask you a question. I want you to ignore this propaganda, as we're cutting costs. Because in the material that you provided us, it is written that the construction of 19 tasks worth PLN 6 billion 700 million with a length of 205 km was completed, i.e. those were tenders signed for this bad Platform and thus a kilometer cost 33 million with a hook... Well, expensive, it's actually expensive. But the website continues to read that since November 2015. So, for a good change, contracts for over 20 billion zlotys of 428 km have been signed to this day, which means that the cost of 1 km is almost 50 million zlotys. Why are you talking about savings when, in fact, there's a 70% increase in costs? ? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u34	Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the path that lies under the code name BDI, about the Beskydy Integration Way. Is she even included in the forthcoming plans? Because from what was presented here, she's not here. And this is a very important road from Bielska to Krakow. I know we've had this conversation a long time ago. If you couldn't give me an answer right now, I'd be asking for an answer in writing. And the second question is, let's say, attention. This applies to the local government fund. Even when I was an old-timer, seven or eight years ago, I called for a meeting with the MPs to make even a small write-down of this fund out of the road fund. Because when it comes to this fund, I think it was the most pro-government solution and super idea, but it was corrupted by an extremely infantile and really weird solution, because, of which, but... it was a terrible solution to do it with a tax increase on fuel. And I would ask that this self-government fund should be maintained and implemented in the past, because really county and municipal roads require exceptional support and assistance from the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u36	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u37	As far as the A18 road is concerned, the second road is ready for implementation. He's on the National Road Construction Program on the reserve list. It has a high position, so I think it will be implemented within this programme and within this limit. At the moment, we are finishing the tenders that I will continue to talk about in the context of the costs that have been mentioned here. This year we're going to be finishing a few dozen more tenders. They will show what are the actual prices that exist today on the market. And if it turns out that we can make these investments at a lower cost than planned, then one of the first ones in this queue waiting for the financing decision will be A18, a very important road for the west of Poland, for the merger and... for the actual relief of A4. There's one more problem with A4. Especially this section, which Mr. Senator mentioned, is a section built in the 1930s, according to the parameters that were simply in force at the time. And that means that if we wanted to do it today, And we want and undoubtedly need to create a motorway that meets the standards that are required and needed today, so that it really means remodeling the entire section, remodeling the whole section. It would be a thorough reconstruction of the entire section, including the replacement of all bridges, all technical objects. She would just have to be built from the beginning, which, of course, would have cost, and over time, which would have to go away. And it is certainly in our plans that we take into account, but this will not be the thing for which funding will be provided within a year or two. So that we see such a need, absolutely, because it is undoubtedly. Besides, these messages... Everyone who drives a car and listens to the radio, hears every hour in Program 1 of Polish Radio about various road events. And there very often the name A4 appears, especially in the context of this episode. So it's a deep need, but solving these problems... I'm sure there's a need for that. Besides, the programme is already being prepared for some modernisation, such a small upgrade of the A4. Here, in turn, there are such problems that if we did, we would have to reduce the number of nodes, the number of connections to the surrounding cities, and this causes protests because they want to have these connections further. So here we are a little bit in such a situation that we sometimes have to reconcile water with fire. But I think we can handle it slowly, slowly. In turn, the question concerning our concessionaires, who use or who have built 4 sections of motorways in Poland... This is indeed a big problem, I do not hide, a problem that has been created in Poland for years. The concessions that were signed... Each of them is on a different agreement, on different terms, and that means that if we really want to negotiate something, then with each of the concession holders we have to negotiate separately, we have to change it for everyone. Of course, we still have a problem with toll collection, because some of these fees go to the concession holders and some of the charges go to the National Road Fund. Here's what I'm gonna say. This is certainly a problem that we have to deal with, but I speak with full openness that it is difficult to expect rapid positive solutions here. Recently, there has been information that I think to the public. It also got that eventually as a Polish country we won the process, the case with AW SA, with the Highway of Wielkopolska SA, for a return, I stress, the return of an unauthorised deposit which was made by... Well, long, nice several years ago. This is the amount of over PLN 800 million, with interest that is over PLN 1 billion 200 million. We have already taken de facto enforcement action to get this money back to the National Road Fund because it was wrongly paid to this company. And sometimes after a long time, after years, after a few years... It was already started by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the talks and then the dispute with AW SA. We have brought here a situation where there is already a final statement from the European Commission, which has made it clear that this money has to be returned. As for the costs that the senator asked about, and the ones that were in the previous contracts, and now they're in those contracts... Your Senate, in fact, the first contracts that have been prepared from the beginning under these new conditions, we will only sign this year, not until the end of the year. I'm talking about those contracts that will concern the implementation of sections of Via Baltica and the road S3. [[Voice from the room: But you're talking about signed contracts...]] Yeah, signed contracts. [[Voice from the hall: The Minister signs.]] He's signing the general management. But, Senator, it's like this. I think you're pretty good at that, too. That these agreements do not arise from month to month or even year to year, the process from decision to start of implementation is 4 and 5 years. Well, that's all it takes. And there was also the charge that we're holding up part of the tenders, we're not settling part of the invitations to tender. There's been a charge. Because we were wondering whether these tenders could not actually be repeated or created other technical conditions that would be more rational. But we always have to move in a certain reality. And there's no way to say this: well, we're closing all constructions today, we're not signing contracts at all, we're ending up, we're going to create completely new conditions for 3 or 2 years, and only after we create new conditions, we're going to start investment processes again. Well, I think that this solution is simply unacceptable, neither to us nor, I think, to the High House, to all healthy thinking people at all. It is simply a process that we need to rationalise, as we continue to do, we need to spend money as much as possible, for example, the European Union's money, which was also a question here, and not some radical measures here. From those... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, gentlemen of the Senators...]] From these tenders... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please...]] These invitations to tender, the latest invitations to tender, are already under these new conditions, but prices will be lower. But these agreements have not actually been signed yet, and final work is still underway on the final shape of the agreements that will be signed. But on the basis of, for example, those tenders that are already open and where we know who will be proposed to sign the contract, which contractor, we can already say that these prices will be lower. The question was, where does it end? Via Carpatia, right? If we look at the map, we will see that the real meaning of Via Carpatia is that it connects the north of the European Union, the northern countries, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, through Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and further south... And that's the point of Via Carpatia. If someone wants to use the port, going from the south, or for example this direction Ukrainian... We create this possibility because there is the construction of S17 to Warsaw, and then S7 or A1, and A2 and A1 lead directly to ports. These roads will be realized first. And they will form traffic, mostly freight, on the Black Sea axis. The Baltic Sea. It's these roads that will move traffic. Therefore, we decided that, as part of the road construction programme, besides Via Carpatia, as S19, the road S17, from the border with Ukraine to Lublin, will also be implemented. And that is the answer to this request. Oh, yet... yes, I'm sorry about the Beskydy Integration Way, which is the S52 road, the Bielsko-Biała Glogoczów road. It's 60 miles. She was enrolled in the National Road Construction Program, but she's not ready to be realized. I think everyone who's interested in it has been known for many years. The problem is to agree on the implementation option. The municipality of Wadowice has an idea, different from the rest of the interested parties, and this is one of the reasons why, speaking of when an investment will be made, when we are still at the stage of the preparatory process, I always place a question mark. There may always be such a thing as in this case, i.e. the refusal of the municipality of Wadowice to determine the course of the road, or, as in the case of S7 and Skarżyska-Kamienna, where 8 years of Only recently have these matters finally been resolved and we are getting closer to signing the agreement for the implementation of this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u38	The next round of questions will begin with Senator Wojtyla. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you something. I represent the constituency where Kalisz is located. The city is centrally located, about 100 km from large cities such as Poznań, Wrocław, Łódź, and in fact there is no expressway to any of these cities. For several years now, we have been talking about the road of rapid traffic, the express road from Kalisz to the highway of Warsaw, Stryków and Strykow to Wrocław, which would open Kalisz both to Wrocław and Łódź and further to Warsaw. I know you've had delegations with the president of the city headed by the Minister. I would like to ask how real this investment is and what you are predicting about it. When could this investment start? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u40	Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about national road number 12. This is a very important communication route linking the eastern border of Poland with the western border, but on this road there are very few investments foreseen in this road reconstruction program, especially in this western section, where there are no investments. I have a very specific question: why didn't the bypass of Gostyn get there? This road runs one thread through the middle of the city and another thread through the district road. This is a kuriozum, especially since there is probably already an environmental decision concerning this road, and in the past years the question of this ring road has been discussed in the context of its connection to the north-south ring road on the voivodeship road No.494, which will be implemented in the near future for 140 million. So I have a specific question: why is there so little investment on national road number 12, and why isn't the bypass of Gostyn in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u42	Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a few questions. The first thing is that we are very happy that a contract has been signed for the construction of Dąbrowa Tarnowska ring road, because it was a long-awaited investment. This bypass is located within the national road no.73 and here is a question about the episode of Tarnów Szchucin, which is in terrible condition. For the whole Tarnów land, for the Dąbrowa district, for Dąbrowa Tarnowska it is a very important investment. The question is, what are the chances of doing something about it? Second thing. We saw in the media how the Minister opened the S7 fragment on Saturday, and we were very happy about it. We remember that it was an episode near Jędrzejów, and recently an episode near Szydłowiec was opened, and these are important fragments. The whole road S7 from Krakow to Warsaw is very important for Małopolska. We see in this statement how many agreements are signed, many ongoing proceedings. As the Minister said, these are indeed long periods, four years... Let me say this: we put this at your heart, because this is a really high priority, important investment for Małopolska. We ask you to keep an eye on this. Well, the Radom section of Warsaw is also able, I would say, to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u44	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u45	Maybe this time I'll start from the end, from the last question, from the answer to Senator Wind's question. Episode Radom Warsaw. Radom's perimeter has recently been put into service, the tender for the section of Warsaw has been settled. Grójec. So, an episode to Radom and even Radom... this case will be settled. The most difficult situation, in terms of the state of progress of the work, is on the section: the border of Małopolska voivodship Cracow. There we just found, I would say, no preparatory work or a very low level of preparatory work. We started this work immediately and at the moment they are simply being carried out. I will answer in writing to the senator when the individual elements are implemented in relation to the S7 route. She is under the special supervision of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, because it is an alternative to the A1 motorway north road It's noon. In the case of the A1 motorway, we are in the process of settling tenders for this last section between Częstochowa and Piotrków. Thanks to this we will have such an alternative road arrangement, which will allow us to spread traffic on these sections a little more rationally and to ease Małopolska's traveling north, because it is indeed a torment. I mentioned Skarżysko-Kamienna. For the next section, the agreement will be signed this year and work will begin. So that slowly, slowly all these sections will form and join together. As far as the Dąbrowa Tarnowska case is concerned, you will allow the senator to answer in writing as I examine this case. 'Cause we're coming in here, so to speak, getting lower. Road S12. Well, we have a problem with the state of the art of preparatory work. The preparatory work has started, but unfortunately they must take time. What is the most advanced, ready to be realized, is the episode of the Monks of Kielce. This section will be implemented, provided its funding is provided in the programme. Then we'll have the Kielce problem solved. A contract has already been signed for the Moravian ring road. For the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, and especially for the Kielce agglomeration, this will solve very important problems. So that preparatory work on S12 is being carried out and these problems will be resolved as soon as possible. Can this be done in this regard? I think the key will be not so much the financial factor as the time factor. We need to realise that within this perspective, this limit and this programme, we are not able to modernise, repair or build all expressways. I think that is absolutely possible in the next perspective. However, we need to prepare ourselves during this perspective, this programme, so that we can immediately reach for new funding. The point is not to say that there are no documents prepared to carry out the investment. The Kalisz case. The Kalinian environment is very active and provides various projects. We're talking... I confirm that President Kalisz was with us and we talked about it twice. We're analyzing the possibilities that give us... Kalisz has also proposed other proposals to address this problem when it comes to communication. But you will allow the Minister to answer this question in writing, because there are also talks on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u46	Senator Hamerski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Minister, I have examined this document, the National Road Construction Programme, with a view to 2025, and I have been thoroughly familiar with its objectives. I would like to say that I was worried that this document lacks, among others. National Road No 47 from Rabka to New Market, because the absence of this road in the programme also means that there is no funding for this investment in the budget in the perspective I mentioned. I want to say that this road... that this is the section that de facto opens this Podhale sack north, to Poland, to S7, because road 47 is the road that connects Podhale with S7 and further north towards Krakow... The investment, which is carried out on the section from Lubień to Rabka, goes... Of course, we are very pleased with this, but the addition to Podhale is the section of road No 47 from Rabka to the New Market with the ring road of the city. And my question, of course, concerns this investment, as well as the investment on national road 28, which is as if an alternative road to road 4 to the west. Okay, okay, okay, Or east west, and in these directions we also drive from this podhalan sack, not only north to Krakow... And to be honest, there are two sensitive places here that make road number 28 not always the way to the end, you can say, the passable because of the increased traffic mostly transport, not just passenger traffic. I mean Misha Dolna and Limanova. Has the Ministry considered this issue and, if so, what is its attitude towards ring-roads in these two cities along national road number 28? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u48	Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as promised, I will proceed to the specific questions. Thank you, senator locksmith, who asked for the A18 routes. I will continue digging on this subject, because he is of course very important to this part of Poland. The question is as follows, Minister. Is this section of the A18 road, which is Olszyna. Golnice, it is close to 71 km... It's just about remodeling the south road. The Minister said that this road had a good chance of being rebuilt. My question is whether the method of financing will be changed. Because the programme at one time stated that this investment would be carried out in the road formula of the special purpose company and that the funds would come from the capital market. However, will there be money for this under the KFD, whether in the state budget or within the European funds? That's the first question. And second question. I also remember perfectly well, Minister, that for environmental reasons this investment was very expensive, but I also remember that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways was supposed to revise this project and reduce the number of others. road crossings, which meant that the cost of this section would be significantly lower. Another question. Does the Minister have any idea if these activities have been carried out? And if you'd like to say It is extremely important for this part of Poland, for residents of this part of Poland When is it possible... Is there a chance in the perspective of 2025 to build this road? She is crucial from the point of view of such a gate of the Polish state, because people coming from the western part Europe is entering the road really in a catastrophic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u50	Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Minister, about the roads, about the Tomaszów Lubelski bypass. She was announced by the Civic Platform, PSL, so many years ago. It was promised that she would be, and today it is said again that she will be, but in perspective... Are there any... Because here I didn't find any information about it. There's talk of road 17, and here's the Tomasz... it's before you go to Hrebenne, which means you can say it's a city that's really overloaded with transit. When will the implementation of the Tomaszow Lubelski ring road be? If you can't answer that question, please answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u52	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u53	Maybe this time I'll start by answering Senator Slugock's question about the A18 road. The second road, because in this case it is the renovation of one roadway, is already being prepared for implementation. The road construction program is on the reserve list, but I think that because it's very high and the need for it to be realized is obvious, we can count on it for sure... In answer to the question whether this will be achieved in this perspective, I can say yes. I can answer that in this perspective and under this programme it will be carried out, all the more so as work is being done to possibly finance this through the public-private partnership path, which would also be carried out outside the road construction programme. But once again, users probably care less about the source of the investment, more about whether the investment has been made and whether it can be used. [[Director of Public Road Department in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jarosław Waszkiewicz: Tomaszów.]] Tomaszów Lubelski. Here, allow the senator to ask that question. 'Cause I'd like to give you a precise answer. I'll answer in writing. Because among the many hundreds of investments that we have in mind right now and which we are dealing with, sometimes certain things... Well, there's no way to remember all things anyway a vista answer questions. Although, maybe... [[Director of Public Road Department in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jarosław Waszkiewicz: Here, Tomaszów...]] Oh, there you go, you can. Yes, the Tomaszow Lubelski ring road... It's on the basic list to sign a contract for preparatory work, right? [[Director of Public Road Department in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jarosław Waszkiewicz: For realization.]] Oh, for the realization. This is supposed to be October, which is this year. The end of the works is scheduled for April 2011. [[2021]] Of course, for 2021. I'm sorry. As planned in April 2021, work is to be completed, i.e. this investment would be realised. Questions about DK47, Rabka There's a preparatory work going on here, too. This is the area. particularly difficult to invest in road investments for both technical, natural and social reasons. Here, the route arrangement is also a problem, but I'll try to... I will present to the senator such information as are the plans, what is the state of progress of individual investments in the Court of Justice, in Podhale, so that there is full information in this regard and that I may not have to correct any minor errors resulting from the fact that something was said wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u54	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, now I'd like to ask you about the S3 expressway. Senator Komarnicki asked about an episode at the height of the town of Gorzów. I would like to ask about the state of completion of this road from Sulechów further south. We know that And you can see that because I often go this way. The construction of the Sulechów section continues intensively Green Mountain North. The bridge was put into service as planned, in August. Whether there are risks to the implementation of particular sections, starting just from Sulechów to Zielona Góra North, from Zielona Góra North to Niedoradz, from Niedorza to the South, to Kazimierzów, to Bolków. The second part of my question concerns the section from Bolkow to Kamienna Góra and from Kamienna Góra to Lubawka. I know that the tendering procedures have been announced, that this is described in the document, in the material that the Minister has submitted to us. These proceedings are due to end with the signing of the agreement in March 2018, i.e. de facto next year. My questions are: are there no dangers here, and what are the work in this regard? One last question. If the contracts are signed within the proposed and expected deadline, i.e. March 2018, when will we be able to count on the actual and financial termination of the investment, to put this section into service? I realize that there will be some problems, because there are difficult engineering objects there, e.g. Tunnels. When can this section be completed? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u56	Now, Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about the programme on improving road safety and improving transport conditions, namely the Ministry's programme for the decommissioning of dangerous places. How is this financial and what are the plans of the Ministry for the implementation of the programme for the decommissioning of dangerous places? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u58	The last one in this series will be Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I've been involved in construction my entire professional life. You asked me a question. All the teams that took part in the construction of major road infrastructure in our country made the same mistakes, and the Public Procurement Act I think so. People who didn't have the slightest idea about the investments. You made me happy in one sentence, Minister. I'll be glad if it's your regular course in public procurement. Minister, in a few or several years' time, our country will be one big investment failure due to the cursed criterion of the lowest price that was applied to tenders. I believe that this will cost us many times more than if we did what we did in normal countries, if we made good roads without looking at the lowest price, but above all on the experience and achievements of the carrying companies. I beg you, Minister. I urge you to be braver. The idea is that there will be companies that will make investments not necessarily on the basis of the lowest price criterion, only prices that will guarantee us faultless roads, i.e. those that will not be constantly improved. Because that's what annoys all of us the most, that is, citizens on these roads. We often see these adjustments. We've seen something like this before: there was a finite highway or high-speed road and there were cones immediately set up and there was blocking... [[Mr. Senator, you can't see the question. Ask me a question.]] My question is this: will there finally be a change after which won not the cheapest and the most professional company? Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u60	Minister, you're welcome. Series.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u61	Bolks and road S3. Let's start with the first question. Mr. Senator, I meet with the principals every month. I've already said that when it comes to S3, I think there's a problem on one of the episodes. At the moment, I can't say it from memory. In general, the construction of S3 is going well and there are no major problems reported there, but of course I will check it out and inform the senator. The Bolków episode of Lubabka. It's already been mentioned. Two episodes... We're coming up on the tender. Everything's on schedule. If I remember correctly, the investment time is 36 months. This is an ambitious plan, there's nothing to hide. It's ambitious because of the tunnels, the mountains, which I'm going to say you have to go through. That's the situation. About the question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think there's even... But then maybe I'll give the High House comprehensive information about S3. The second is the Gorzow ring road, which will be put into motion in October this year. So it won't be long now. Yeah, I think so. We will be able to consider this problem to be resolved. "Sulech episode" The Green Mountain will also be moved in October this year. Zielona Góra - Not Advising in May next year. Don't do that. New Salt in July next year. New Salt Legnica in June next year. Legnica Bolków at the turn of September and October next year. As for the lowest price, Mr. Senator, actually... It is obvious that you can enjoy when someone declares the lowest price and then collect this very bad fruit. And we're done with that practice. Even in the case of those tenders which we are now announcing and which we are deciding, the ministry's clear position has been repeatedly addressed to the Directorate-General, so that with great care and determination we can assess the offers so that these problems which we all remember perfectly will not be repeated. That's where she's determined. I hope there's no doubt in this... there's no compromise here. There can be no compromises here, because a few million or even tens of millions of zlotys spent in the order of several hundred million zlotys are of course important, but the consequences of entrusting the investment to the bad contractor are so disastrous that then all the consequences are many times greater. And there is absolute determination to maintain this course. I will repeat that the problem is mainly affecting those companies that do not have their potential in Poland. No matter what country they come from... But the real determinant is whether there is this potential in Poland, whether there are forces, whether there are employees, or if there is a team of subcontractors who immediately undertake the task, and you don't have to look for them again on the market and desperately look around because there are no hands to work, and wonder what to do with it now, and explain that there are other difficulties. So that there will be no changes here and we will continue to apply such solutions very consistently. Senator Swede's question... If there's only a password... [[It's a program for the elimination of dangerous places.]] The program... Oh, very... Excuse me, I'll take your notes, a little blurry... Mr. Senator, the Programme for the Elimination of Dangerous Places is a program that has been operating for several years, a very important program. It is intended to carry out tasks on the network of national roads, but passing through small towns, so that they feel the improvement of road safety. That's his target. Every year a minimum of PLN 300 million is granted. This is the minimum financial scope that needs to be made. We also want this financial scope to be expanded. There's a delegation to make it 600 million zlotys. But this money comes from the National Road Fund, the so-called. savings, although I really don't like that word when it comes to tenders, that we're saving something here... It's just that it's from the unused money that was spent on KFD in a given year, and it wasn't spent. As far as precise information on implementation is concerned, Senator, if you don't mind. I will submit in writing concrete data on the size, extent and number of all investments that are made in the programme this year...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u62	Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! May I ask, Minister, to send written information on the size of the National Road Fund for the years 2015, 2016, and 2017? Without great details, it's mostly about the government of greatness, influence, commitment, results. If you don't mind me asking... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Excuse me, two thousand...]] 2015, 2016, 2017. I won't have to write a statement anymore. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Good.]] I'm going again, Minister, to S6. You told the minister about this episode of Koszalin. The Tri-City, which I am particularly interested in, as well as a colleague of Senator Sławek Rybicki from Gdynia. You said you were talking about the PPP formula. Could you give the Minister some details? Is there a time frame? That's what he asked. In Senator Sillyman's question, it sounded like you were trying to recolonise the roads. I heard you didn't. And what happens when a German entity launches a PPP? It's not like we're ever gonna make it happen. Therefore, we are interested in what is the time perspective and what are the assumptions of this program, because the idea is noble and important for the road to be created. But what are the assumptions of the time frame for this project? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u64	Please, Minister... Oh, no, I'm sorry. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Maybe two more questions, okay?]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Senator Ryszka... [[Can I ad vocem, Mrs. Marshal, because my name has been mentioned?]] Good. That's before Senator Ryszka asks the question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u65	I'm sending Senator Czarnobaj's friend back to the transcript because he didn't understand my speech. [[I'll read it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Ryszka, and then Senator Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, this is an impressive calculation of road investments, but I would like to, because I haven't heard anything about the construction of the S1 on the Cost Node section. Bielsko-Biała with the Oświęcim ring road to remind you of the current situation of this road investment Very important, I won't stress it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u68	And you're Marshal Sewerinski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u69	Minister, I think that not only our constituents, but also the senators are interested in answering such a key question, which I think is still hanging over us: how will it ultimately be with these tolls for highways? Will there be vignettes? Are we gonna pay on goals or are we not gonna pay at all? Are we getting closer to this strategic decision, or is it still going to take some time?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u70	You're welcome, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u71	About... Maybe I'll start with a question about the S6 road and the public-private partnership. Well, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, we have this schedule for a few projects that we, together with the Ministry of Development, are preparing to carry out. By December we as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction carry out feasibility studies of these 6 projects, among others. Also this episode of S6. We plan to decide in December whether this path and these investments will be implemented after these analyses and studies have been presented. This will be the decision of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. If the decision is positive, we will start preparing the tenders next year. It probably won't be since January, but... I mean, after the decision, we're gonna start preparations, of course, but they're gonna have to take some time, too. This PPP formula, as we know, is still not fully recognized, it works in many places, it doesn't work in others. We need to show it all in such a way that we do not go back to the problems that sometimes occur in these projects. As far as the S1 is concerned, which is Mr. Ryszka's question, I would ask, Mr. Senator, for permission to answer in writing to Mr. Senator because I know that there are different episodes at different stages and the situation is quite diverse. And this is a very important road for Bielsko-Biała and Katowice. That's why I'd ask for a written reply. What I'm saying is that we should be precise about the state of the case. The question about the fees, the question of Senator Sewerinski, your marshal about the fees. Well, High Izbo, there's a tender for the toll collection system. In November next year... On 3 November, the current agreement for the toll collection system ends with a system which today operates under the name For several months now, there has been a tender to select a further operator of this system or operator who will propose another system. Nine companies came forward to tender. Right now, it's at the stage where... We are finishing the first stage of this tender, identifying those tenderers who will enter into the technical dialogue. A few days ago, the National Board of Appeal was decided, which referred to a protest lodged by one of the companies, Kapsch, which stated that all other companies should be excluded as they did not meet the tender conditions submitted. The National Board of Appeal accepted the application only in one case, i.e. it considered that 8 companies were properly prosecuted. Unfortunately, with such a constant appeal we are faced with this invitation to tender, this is delaying, we are simply treating it as delaying, wanting to delay this invitation to tender, so as to shorten the time of technical dialogue and that we are contracting in a more difficult situation. However, this tender is conducted with full determination. We join the technical dialogue. And let's hope that, according to the planned plan, with the programme that is being implemented, we will select this contractor so that we can, because it is envisaged that this contractor will carry out the collection of fees for the next 6 years at the same time charge. I'll remind you what stakes we're talking about. This year the planned revenue from viaTOLL, i.e. from the fees which are thus charged, mainly from truck traffic, is more than PLN 2 billion. This amount goes to the National Road Fund, which is precisely what we are talking about here today. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u72	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u73	Minister, I didn't get an answer. Because I asked PPPs. I understand that this requires analysis, preparation, etc. Well, it's obvious, it's not a popular form in Poland, even when it comes to political and social acceptance, although it may be less. But the question is, do you have a time frame? Well, I understand it's open to discussion by 2025. Is there a time frame to determine when you will conclude this discussion, the preparation? Well, for example. so that the tender will be announced in 2025.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u74	Mr. Senator, let me remind you of what I've just presented here. Namely, the analyses are to be completed by December, i.e. in December the analysis is to be completed. In December, a decision of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers is also to be made on this list and on the feasibility of carrying out these projects or parts of these projects. Once the decision has been taken, we will start preparing for the tender, which, of course, is more complicated than the tender, which will be paid from public funds, because this is a completely different matter. Here we have to reconcile various things, securing the Treasury in the contract, which results from the law of public procurement. As far as PPPs are concerned, this is a number of times simpler, and there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question regarding, of course, the S7 road, but not only. You have already said some things about Świętokrzyskie voivodship. I wish I could do more than just add something. You said the 74 road was going to be realized. It's already on the agenda, at least the first part of Kielce. Monks, which is necessary for the Kielce agglomeration. This is road 74, which leads to Piotrków Trybunalski and is the main link to the TEN-T network, i.e. for Świętokrzyskie voivodship it is the main route that connects us with TEN-T. As we know, not so much ambition as the task of TEN-T is for every citizen of the European Union to be within half an hour to reach this network. So that's what we're really happy about. You told me about the S7 piece of the complaint. Szydłowiec, that it was finally signed... that this investment would finally be launched. But it must be remembered that at the turn of 2010 and 2011 the tender for this road was already decided, only the environmentalists appeared, who said that there were butterflies, and as many as 7 years, you have to tell yourself honestly, took the appeal procedure. Meanwhile, as it turns out, the butterflies have flown away, they're not there, and the condition is that the road is based on the city and the last fatal accident happened last Wednesday morning. The fact that there were miles of traffic, two hours of traffic, it's a smaller thing, but there's just a man dead, and that's the fact. The third thing is the Moravian ring road you told me about. I happen to live very close. This is also a kind of curiosity situation: the construction permit for this particular part has been since 2011, but over the years everything has been done to make this investment longer. First, the eight-kilometer section was divided into two, so further administrative procedures were required, and then, as this was no longer possible to stop in any way, the construction permit was issued in 2011 but so far nothing happened. Thank you for the decision that something has finally moved. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] This already shows how sustainable development is needed, like the voivodship, not only historically, after 1946, but also today was ignored in various kinds of investments. And the question is on Route 7 of the Chocina Jędrzejów section. The deadline is the fourth quarter of this year. Your boss, Minister Adamczyk, has been at the site of this construction lately, which is about a month ago... [[Voice from the room: Now it was.]] [[Saturday...]] [[Voice from the room: Going twice.]] To be precise: on Saturday Minister Adamczyk was, participated in the dedication of one section, from Jędrzejów to the border of Świętokrzyskie and Małopolskie voivodships. I'm talking about the stretch between Chęciny and Jędrzejów. This episode was due at the end of this year. The consortium of Italian companies which implement it was called by the state, invited to the talks, because we know that there are long delays... If I enter the update bookmark on the chechen-jerzejow website. ♪ ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ ♪ [[Question, Senator, please proceed to the question. It's too long a line.]] Okay, okay, I'd like to know, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...when contractors have been summoned, what is the deadline for this path. The last message, September 15th, was this: on September 15th, the contract engineer's office took place... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I have to be fair to everyone...]] Okay, Mrs. Marshal. In that case... [[We have a minute to ask you a question, and you're already asking it for three minutes.]] Minister, after these conversations, are we... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...closer to knowing when the consortium will complete the construction of this road?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u77	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, my last question also concerns a little bit of the "Programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure" for the years 2016-2019. Of course, you were talking about the road programme and I think that as regards the national road construction programme and the progress made in implementing these investments, this infrastructure at the level of express roads, motorways or national roads... Their arrival, however not to curse reality, has been built in Poland in the past 8 years a truly colossal number of roads, that is so far in our history the front of works unprecedented. Voivodship local authorities are also doing well, because regional operational programmes implement voivodship roads. The most difficult situation is in municipalities and Polish districts, because the network of municipal and district road infrastructure is the longest and it is natural. Despite the fact that the programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure was launched, it is about roads commonly known as the Schetynówkówkami, but the needs of Polish self-governments are huge. And here's my question. For the years 2016 and 2019 4 billion zlotys are foreseen, Minister. In 2016, there will be PLN 800 million, in 2017 sorry. In 2019 PLN 1 billion and in 2019 PLN 1 billion... I'm sorry. Again. In 2016 there will be PLN 800 million, in 2017 PLN 1 billion and in 2018 and 2019. 1 billion PLN per 100 million. We know that the funds have been shifted from this year and that this programme has been cut off. I have a question about the next two years. Does the government intend to reduce expenditure on the municipal and district infrastructure development programme? We know how important this infrastructure is. She's complementary to the communication routes we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u79	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Sorry to keep you waiting. Minister, you have already mentioned in your speech today the implementation of the Via Maris route from Gdynia to Władysławów and the construction of the section from the port of Gdynia to Via Maris. That's good news. Would you like to clarify what possible deadlines are? I also have a question about the funding of the urban section in which Gdynia would participate. Is there any work in the government or in the ministry that you represent to amend the Maritime Ports Act so that the port can, for example, participate in the construction costs of such a road? That's the first question. The second question concerns the Via Maris section, which runs through the Pucki district. Are there any consultations with local government? As far as I know, GDDKiA's contacts with local government have not yet been registered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u81	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u82	The road S7 and the episode of Chocina Jędrzejów, on which unfortunately there is a serious executive problem... I've talked about this several times today. There is one of those companies that does not have sufficient investment potential. The discussions with a group of companies are unfortunately... These are not really things that are needed or especially pleasant. There have been several meetings over the last few weeks, during which we have moved our positions. We, i.e. the general management, the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, are invariably in the position that, in relation to companies which are objectively and faultyly delaying investment processes, will be in accordance with contracts, the consequences being drawn according to contracts. It was clear and I hope it is understandable. However, to what extent these companies are able to mobilize and implement these investments, to what extent they are able to catch up... Unfortunately, we have to look at them every day and look at their hands. Reports to which they have been required to submit come to us in part. For some investments, we can see that this is actually effective. I would even say that this is effective for all investments, but unfortunately this effectiveness is not always satisfactory when it comes to acceleration and mobilisation. Executive companies today explain that there are difficulties in acquiring subcontractors and that they must be imported from outside Poland. These are translations that do not convince us. What does that mean? Companies that have potential don't have such serious problems. In conclusion, I will say that the case is constantly monitored. If the general contractor, or consortium, fails to comply with the contract, the contract will have appropriate consequences on him. The second question concerned the network of municipal and district roads. The programme of modernisation of municipal and district roads for the years 2016-2019 indeed provides for a programme ending in 2019 for the spending of PLN 3 billion 600 million. In 2017, it was 800 million, and so it will be next year. The programme has not been amended as such, and we expect that in 2019 the remainder, i.e. this 1 billion 600 million, will be earmarked for its implementation. We can talk about a significant increase in this expenditure. Via Maris. There have been talks, repeated talks between the general directorate of the branch in Gdansk and the President of Gdynia, because President Gdynia is a partner in the talks regarding the course of this artery in Gdynia. A draft financing agreement is prepared. As far as I know, the port in Gdynia also found some path to support the construction of this artery. We are now inside the ministry checking the agreements submitted, investigating whether they are to be implemented, whether they are correct. I think everything's going the right way. As far as consultations on this route are concerned, outside the city of Gdynia, such consultations have not just started yet. They will begin when we solve the issues that are actually the most difficult - financing issues - the issues of how this road goes through Gdynia. And further north... I don't think these conversations are gonna be easy either. This is a very important topic. As I say, we're still ahead of these conversations. We need to establish our own position, because then there'll be space to talk. And then these conversations with local governments, with the residents, will be conducted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I usually don't praise the ministers very much... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Pity...]] ...but today I commend you very much. Please also give these praises for a very reasonable decision to the rest of the government. This increase in the financial limit was an action at a point, in time, very beneficial and expected by most Poles. This will allow to complete investments in the case of e.g. Bypasses, certain roads. The question is, are we done here? Couldn't we do more than that, Minister? There are investments that... Well, it's gonna be a typical private. There's an investment in the city where I live in Prudnik. The eastern bypass that would close the ring road. Same. It's not private anymore. He's in Opole. voivodship center, terrible communication system... It's about closing the south bypass, much more expensive of course. There is also a connection to the highway, because Opole really has a terrible connection to the highway, not on the shortest line. And to get back to the previous thread... Thank you for these 5 investments in Opole. I'm talking about bypasses, especially the ring road of a small town called Niemodlin, which is not in my district. This isn't private. And who really needed that bypass. This bypass is very much needed in this city, because it's just being run over by a truck. If this investment could actually be started, that is to say, put in a shovel, then surely the inhabitants would be grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u85	Thank you very much. And Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One specific question. I think the Minister will answer in writing. Previously, in the case of another department, we talked. It was already a stage in some decisions. It's about Malbork's ring road. That's a very specific question. If I may ask, Minister, for an answer in writing, is there any work going on in this area, or is this being seen... Because, I think, the Minister was, especially in June, July, August... the Tiry going to the Kaliningrad circuit, passing through the middle of this medieval town is a difficult matter. Therefore, after Nogat had made the second thread of the bridge, the investment was to be started under the name Malbork. If I could ask you in writing for information on the progress of this investment, whether it's at all, and when... And one quick question. Minister, you said that those investments and contracts that were signed were signed after you took over the projects you had prepared. When will the first investment from start to finish prepared by your resort or general management, carried out in Poland under your supervision?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the question concerns the Ministry's policy on land occupations, including the planned sections of roads. We know for a long time that we haven't been able to deal with this in many years. And if the road has several variants, it can make life difficult for people for many years and on very large areas of the area. They cannot have these areas freely, because there are several options for the road, and this effectively makes it difficult for the inhabitants to control and dispose of the land. Please tell us if there is a chance at least at conceptual stages to narrow down these options so that people can freely own their own territories. Because they often report that it devastates their family life. It extends to many generations. It is often the case that young people leave a given village only because their parents are unable to provide them with the possibility to use often quite large parcels. The second question is how, on time, I mean its absolute values, it translates into consideration. And, of course, thank you. In view of the increased to PLN 135 billion limit of financial resources such as investments such as the aforementioned seventy-four in the section Kielce Monks or bypass of Moravica and Wola Morawicka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u89	You're welcome, Minister. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll start with Opole, the Niemodlin ring road. Indeed, I fully confirm: the Niemodlin ring road, the ring roads of the cities in Opole are very important investments. And those decisions that I think have been made solve a huge part of these problems. Niemodlin, when it comes to buildings, is, you can say, a typical street town, which was created, built and operated along one street. All traffic is carried through the middle of town. Here actually this word, this term is absolutely appropriate for this situation. There was also a huge activity of local government and residents, there were very serious treatments for this investment. And I am glad that this issue has been resolved. Also those few other bypasses in Opole region, where decisions have already been made... As far as the Nysa ring road is concerned, the second part of this ring road will be completed this year. Thought... These are the towns that, in the next few years, when it comes to communication, will simply breathe away. I'll give the senator in writing specific information on the ring road in Opole. As far as the Malbork ring road is concerned, thank you in advance for agreeing to my request for a written reply. In fact, it is an investment which is shown by what I remember. The condition is not very advanced. I think I'm just going to put in writing what it looks like. The second question, more systemic, was when the first investment was completed, from start to finish... [[Begin, Minister.]] Started? Oh, okay. As far as starting is concerned, this period is actually shorter. I think we can say that this will happen in about 2 years, because the preparatory process in Poland lasts about 4 years. Well, so far, this is just how much it takes to prepare an investment in Poland. Of course, this process needs to be shortened, but it is also very diverse. I'm talking about a certain average, although sometimes it takes a lot longer. Such examples have already been mentioned here. It is rare that all these preparatory work carried out after the decision that we will make an investment can be carried out more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress here that it is not that we are somehow cut off from what has been prepared in previous years, but we do not want to make those mistakes that have been made. I don't want to talk again about subcontractors, mass bankruptcy, poor quality. These are all processes that simply require hard work, and we are doing this work. Nothing's gonna get better here, no one's gonna find any brilliant solutions overnight. This requires work, day-to-day monitoring of these investments and daily selection of people who can work. It is also a matter of this kind, so that we can develop an executive capacity that will make us able to make a credible investment. And it just happens. I have already mentioned cases concerning the elimination of those entities which give a grossly low price. In December, the very important animal transition solution will also be known. In this previous and present part of the perspective we spent more than PLN 7 billion on building animal transitions. It's giant money. We've been studying nearly 1,000 passageways for animals that have already been built. Of their usefulness, of their location, of their size, I can make it clear here that it is necessary to do a huge job to simply rationalise these transitions for animals so that they actually meet the standards that are necessary for animals to pass through the roads and that these roads do not make it difficult for the population of individual animals to function in some gross way. We already have a signed agreement with the Roads and Bridges Research Institute, and in December we will know the principles of the regulation that will regulate it. We cooperate with the Ministry of the Environment in this regard. Within the framework of these projects, which we are already carrying out or preparing, I stress: estimated The cost of moving on to animals alone is nearly PLN 8 billion, so I think that the country that is interested in it and is about to try everything on the investments that are most at their heart, now realise how great is the scale of expenditure incurred under the National Road Fund for purposes that are de facto not for expensive purposes, but for the surrounding nature, so that these roads do not hinder, you can say, the lives of animals and do not interfere with the functioning of their population. The next question concerned land seizure when there were several options. Here's what I'm gonna say: there's a special act that provides fair compensation. Well, unfortunately, sometimes, especially when we build in a new trail, expropriations are necessary, but it seems to me that compensation is high enough that they do not raise objections. I don't record a lot of protests. Yeah, there's a couple of these inflammatory points, but that's what's different. Namely, this is due to the fact that the people who transferred the land claim that then their value increased. But a few years ago, they were valued according to what they were worth. This is the case, for example. in the vicinity of Suwałk There are such voices and there are very serious protests. Ladies and gentlemen, local communities can solve this issue to a large extent by creating their spatial development plans and setting out corridors in them, which can then be used to determine specific roads. The work carried out today by the planners of the general management, when preparing projects, can be done in such a way that, as I would say, the closest to a given reality, by those who will work for individual local governments. If they carry out environmental studies and designate possible corridors for roads that are known to pass through the localities... Well, then we have this job done. And if that's all there is to it, even if it's a variant study, it's gonna have to be done by the general management... In this situation, these previously occupied corridors must be free. Right? I'll give you an example. S16 road on the episode near Mikołajek, the middle part of Mazur. 42 options for passing through the area have been analysed, but so far they are all protested and probably there will be no general public consent. There's an agreement on option 34 but it only applies to part of it, because in the case of another part, someone is protesting... Option 35 is similar. Well, there will always be environments or people who protest. We have talked here several times about situations where very important investments have unfortunately been or are still being stopped due to social protests. We respect this, these are not situations beyond the law and capabilities of the Ministry or the General Directorate. I'm just talking about a reality that is and sometimes, you can say, is difficult to accept also for social and functional reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u92	Minister, I hear the metropolitan ring road of the Tricity has been removed from the list of major projects. Is it true, and if so, are you considering building an additional third lane on this ring road due to the increasing blocking of traffic on the current Tricity ring road as an alternative? That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u93	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I think I've already had the third call in the same case. Mr. Marshal asked earlier about a fragment of S14, about this liaison in the western part of Łódź. They're asking me how much money you have to spend... Because you said local governments should get involved. What is the scale of expenditure in relation to these plans? It mediatically upsets the environment very much with us. And the second question I literally just received. Is it possible to enter the wines as they are with our southern neighbours? 'Cause it's gonna be at the gate taking a lot of time. Besides, the same goals, working there, according to society, cost quite a lot. Would it not be possible to improve the process of crossing the Polish motorways with vignettes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u95	Thank you. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I repeat the question, Minister, to which you have not answered, regarding these time frames for the implementation of S74 in section Kielce Monks and bypasses of Moravica and Wola Morawicka. At the same time, I would like to ask if the resort is learning from mistakes. Last Saturday. It must also be made clear. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk visited the section opened between Jędrzejów and the borders of Świętokrzyskie and Małopolska voivodship, which was a great joy for him. But he also visited an earlier episode, i.e. the Wanting of Jędrzejów, which should be given at the same time, and will certainly be delayed for months. I know that because I accompanied the Minister. My question is whether the resort is learning from mistakes. Is there at least a shadow of the chance that such situations, such curiosities, will be avoided when new performers emerge? The point is that 2 episodes of a similar length differ so much as the deadline for putting into service
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u97	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u98	As for the question about the Tri-City ring road, I'll say that for the so-called. the list of major projects corresponds to the Ministry of Development. But I don't know anything about it being crossed out. What really stopped this investment today is, above all, the problems with obtaining environmental decisions and the appeal that is in court today is being considered. This case has been going on for months. When we had to make a decision on the basis of this list, which will be implemented, we unfortunately did not know whether this investment would have an environmental decision, so we had to behave responsibly. However, the Tri-City ring road is discussed as one of the projects to be implemented as PPP, a public-private partnership, and this project is analysed in terms of funding. So that we absolutely do not accuse it because it is absolutely necessary to build this bus. I think building more belts... Of course, this can possibly be considered, but I think the better solution is the consistent pursuit of building a second ring road. One belt, of course, would also improve the situation a bit, but it would cost a lot and create even more confusion, even more traffic difficulties than they are today. So I would rather opt for another solution, for building a completely new bypass as quickly as possible after a new track, additional and parallel. S14 case in Łódź, government of money... As I recall, this investment is supposed to cost, according to our new calculations and new estimates, 1 billion 400 million. However, I am unable to say now, at this moment, what it would be necessary to involve local governments in the construction of these nodes, which the local authorities are calling for. I can answer that question in writing. The point is not to let any untested information into the public circuit. I am aware that for the western part of Łódź this information is extremely important and must be very precise and clearly defined. Time frame S74, episode Kielce Monks, the announcement of the tender... [[Guilty.]] Excuse me? [[Guilty.]] Oh, the vignettes, yes. Mr. Senator, as far as vignettes are concerned, there is currently a tender for the toll collection system, but as far as I know, none of the vignette tenderers are offering. From vignettes in general we will be leaving in Europe, in the European Union. Moreover, the directive on the introduction of cross-border charging systems is already in force or at the last stage of preparation. The aim is to make it as difficult as possible for citizens and transport to move around Europe. The purchase of vignettes, first of all, brings relatively low influence, second, requires a very tight control system, because physically it is necessary to check whether someone actually owns this vignette or not, and also makes it very difficult to move in international relations, between state transport and personal transport, i.e. individual transport. We are not yet able to say what option will prevail when it comes to the tender for the toll collection system, the tender that is under way. The current agreement is valid until 3 November next year. We are finishing, and in fact we have completed the first stage of the tender. From mid-October will be... The terms of the tender have already been sent to the companies and from mid-October the discussion will begin, so-called. technical dialogue. In this way, the company running the toll collection system in Poland will eventually emerge in this network, which is today, as well as the extended one. And there's one more problem. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the fact that unfortunately we have four concessionaires, who are not very favourable to varying degrees of harmonisation of the charging system. This would involve very serious changes in their functioning. They have contracts that secure their interests. Those deals are... One of them is e.g. until 2036. All contracts are long-term, even for more than 20 years, and will continue to apply for many years. So here we have a very difficult problem, but I think a lot will tell us the end of the tender, which is already going on and the normal path is going to end. Road S74 Kielce Monks. Here I can give you more precise information: the announcement of the tender is March 2019, the signing of the agreement in January 2020, the conclusion in May 2023. Why the deadlines? First of all, because the preparation is still relatively low. But we already have specific deadlines here, and the work has started. As far as the Moravia ring road is concerned, the tender was already launched in August this year. The agreement is scheduled to be signed in June next year, and I think it will end in 2020 or 2022. I hope we can do this faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u99	Thank you very much. You're still Marshal Borusewicz. Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u100	Yes. I will address you in your reply, Minister. Unfortunately, the metropolitan ring road of the Tricity seems to have been wiped out. But I have the following question for you. You informed me about one of the investments in Mazury, where you're looking at a forty-third course. The question is, does the Ministry have an upper limit for such alternatives? Because I think the forty-third or forty-second course of analysis is a bit much. I know that the strongest party in Poland is the PPP, the Polish Protest Party. This happens everywhere with linear investments. I understand that these protests... that this has to be taken into account, that it has to be consulted... But do you have a certain number of these runs in a protest situation? Is that 12 runs, 14 or 8? Do you have any rules like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u101	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Yeah, I still have one.]] Please, Senator Rusiecki. [[I'm sorry, I'm just gonna take...]] Okay, we'll wait. [[I, Mrs. Marshal, have not yet obtained an answer to the question of the clauses in the contracts in order to protect myself from unreliable contractors.]] Okay, then the Minister will take that into account. Please, Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal... [[Turn on the mike.]] Mrs Marshal, Minister, High Senate, I have read with great interest the document that you have prepared, and I must say that I am pleased that there are two bypasses on this program that I would like to ask you. The first one is the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski ring road on the national road No. 9. How are the talks going with local governments on this matter, Minister? Is the time specified in the program real to be fulfilled? That's about the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski ring road. And the second bypass, the Abbot's bypass, along the 74th and 9th roads, is the bypass that, you might say, I, as a parliamentarian, have been spending my sleep with my eyelids for the past few years. The circuitry, which is crucial for unloading traffic in the centre of the town, a historic town, remembering Poland of the Piasts. Next to the ancient collegiate, there is now a road which is clogged by the tirra carrying the aggregates and transport from east to west. I strongly ask the Minister to set out in the plan to build the bypass... that this section, which certainly requires a lot of investment, be completed in the near future. That's what I'm asking. But I'd like to ask the Minister for more details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u104	Senator, as far as I know, both the Opatov ring road and the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski ring road are already in the implementation plans, so... But as far as the details are concerned, as far as the stage is concerned, if the senator permits, I'll answer in writing, because right now I'm not... [[I'd be very grateful, yes, yes.]] ...in a state such as this from the memory of all the details of the High House. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much. Senator Elephant hasn't received an answer yet. Does the Minister have anything to add on this matter?]] As far as the integrity of the contractor is concerned, the matter takes place more during the tender than after the contract was signed... I was talking about the fact that we've been very strict about... we've started command enforcement, that a given company is able to execute an order for the amount it declares. So it's called. The grossly lower price clause is respected with absolute respect, several dozen tenders have been excluded in recent tenders during the selection process. Let's hope this is one of the key issues that will keep us out of these major problems. On the other hand, however, it is important that companies that do not have potential in Poland do not build up their potential, they are aware that we will strictly respect the fact that the offers that are submitted are simply real not only in financial terms, but also in organisational, technical and logistics terms, so that companies are able to actually implement them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Wczyła, then Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u106	Minister, is the implementation of all these sections on the S7 road between Gdansk and Warsaw... [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister needs to...]] [[Okay, we're gonna go. Good.]] Minister, will the implementation of all these sections, which are in your report, on the S7 between Gdansk and Warsaw cause that the entire route will already have the standard of four-day expressway... two-day and four-lane? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski. [[Thank you...]] I don't see any more calls. The Minister must be in the Sejm at 12:00, so that if there are any more questions, we may at best have to announce a recess. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u108	Minister, there are trucks rushing, cars with Polish citizens to Ukraine, with Ukrainian citizens rushing west. Movement increases after the abolition of certain visa restrictions. And then they stop. Today's announcement: in Medyce 8 hours, at other crossings... [[Looks like the Seym is gonna delay the vote.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: But I didn't vote, just for the committee meeting...]] [[Mr. Senator, please.]] You've got stairs. The minister doesn't listen to me like that, and that's why I have to speak out loud. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. Rushing cars, traffic increases, and then 8 hours in Medyce, on other crossings 7 on crossings to Belarus is better 1 hour, another border, in the north is closed. The question is what to do with it. Because it's part of the road system. Of course, I rule out this answer: well, that's the briefing rules. The briefings can be done within the framework of the pre-laws, as was once done on the western border, when checks were not necessarily carried out at the same passage. What is the economics of good change when the queues grow longer and the roads become populated?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u109	Good. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. Does the senator want to ask you another question? [[Yes.]] Please be brief because the Minister has to leave now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u110	Short questions. The point is, this S6 road line is supposed to end in Lębork. Is it foreseen... Because that won't solve the problem, because the problem is the corked Lębork. It would be enough to make a move outside of Lębork, towards Słupsk. That's the first question. And second question. It's about the Kościerzyn ring road, which will be in a few days, because there are corrections, open. And I'm gonna say it's a pretty big piece of shit. Because it was supposed to be 2 times 2, then it was said either 2 plus 1, or not at all. Finally, it was done that several overpasses were placed, of which, you can say, at least 2 are unnecessary and only the money was spent. In turn, at the entrance from Chojnice side there is no turning so that you can enter the city. Similarly, when you go after Kościerzyna towards Gdansk and want to turn back to Kościerzyna, there is no turning back to do so, you would simply have to turn around in the field somewhere. Is the planned renovation of the national road number 20, which is to be from Kościerzin... I used to report a left-hand turn with the Minister because there were fatal accidents, and thanks to the Minister for a positive approach to this cause this left-hand turn is to be done. But it turned out that it moved by a year, because there is a planned renovation on a section about 6 km of this road no. 20 from Kościerzyna to Korny, and it has to end in a roundabout, because there will be a fork in the roads to Chojnice and Toby, Town... [[And a question.]] I want a roundabout built. Wouldn't it be okay on this occasion, because it's developed a renovation of this section of road 20 from Kościerzyn, at the beginning of this ring road to make a roundabout? Because he's right there at the beginning of the hospital and to go to the hospital. It's whether it's an ambulance or another move. You have to drive a few hundred meters away, then go somewhere else, take a local road into the city and turn around.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u111	Good. Thank you very much. Minister, please answer these questions. More questions... Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. So it was the last round. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u112	Maybe I'll start with cases involving Pomeranian voivodship... [[I told you, preference.]] On October 1st, the Kościerzyna ring road will be dedicated. As far as the technical aspects that the senator was talking about are concerned, I am not at the moment able to relate to whether there are enough entrances, exits and communication of this road with the already existing communication system. I invite the senator to the opening. And then it will certainly be possible to talk about what can be done if really the technical aspects of this investment are not properly realised. Tiry. What do you... [[It's not just the tira, it's the personalities.]] Tiries and people waiting at the border. Unfortunately, it is such that this problem has existed for many years and it is not the effect of the last few months or 2 or 3 years. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction is not responsible for border crossings, our task is to build roads. The briefing cases, the control cases aren't in our jurisdiction, so I don't feel like the right person to answer that question here. However, it is certainly the result of increased trade, increased traffic, more and more travel between Poland and Ukraine. So that, above all, the problem arises. And the fact that it needs to be corrected is obvious, too. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] Mrs. Marshal, I have a favor to ask. You have been gracious to mention this, at 12.00 a.m., the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs begins, where I must present my case. I know that there is still a debate planned and there will probably be a lot of problems. Would I be able to answer these questions in writing during the discussion? Is that a possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u113	Yes, of course. The Minister can and should even give a written answer to the questions of the senators, i.e. I'll read it here. Mr Andrzej Pajak, Mr Aleksandr Swed, Mr Kazimierz Wiatr, Mr Andrzej Wojtyla, Mr Leszek Czarnobaj, Mr Czesław Ryszko, Mr Jerzy Czerwiński, Mr Ryszard Bonisławski and Mr Jarosław Rusiecki. I guess I didn't miss anyone. So that you will be waiting for an answer. And now thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: I understand that I can leave the High Senate now?]] Yes. As I understand it, you're going to be the principal, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes, yes.]] Good. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister, for answering all the questions, the comprehensive answers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Aleksander Swed will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister, the Ministry of Infrastructure, for the report, because the ministry's actions, our government's efforts to increase the funding limit under the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme with a view to 2025 and the implementation of current investments are impressive in my opinion. As far as my senate district, including Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki and Leoniowski districts, is concerned, the construction of the Kłodzek ring road is being carried out, and on the national road no. 8 many smaller investment tasks were carried out within the framework of the Programme for the Elimination of Dangerous Places and the programme for reducing the number of fatalities as well as within the action plan within the road network itself. The renovations at the height of the municipalities of Germany and Łagiewniki are being carried out. The design documentation is also being prepared, in which 6 variants of the major reconstruction of the national road No 8 are considered on the section of Wroclaw. Kłodzko. This will be a good continuation of our national road S8 from Wrocław and better communication towards Prague. This is also of strategic importance for our country, especially as the Czech side is planning many road investments in this direction. Therefore, in connection with numerous interventions of local residents and local authorities of the Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki and Leoniowski districts, as well as in connection with many accidents on this road in recent years, including unfortunately many fatal accidents, I request that the national road number 8 be entered on section Kudowa Zdrój Kłodzko Scaroles (Characteristic) For the purposes of this Chapter, Wroclaw on the main list to be implemented in the National Roads Construction Programme for the years 2014 to 2023 with a view to 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u115	Thank you, Minister... Mr. Senator. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Maybe he'll be Minister soon, like your marshal said.]] Well, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! And also, Minister! Minister, not only because you were in this chamber once, but also because I see a high level of competence, I am satisfied with your efforts. But it cannot be overlooked that what we finally receive here in the Senate is very disappointing. We were supposed to have roads cheaper because the ones that were built were too expensive. But, as Senator Grodzki in a very simple way, mathematically showed, it didn't happen. On the contrary, we build roads even more expensive. And no wonder that even if money is added to the national road programme, it does not translate into a much larger number of investments from the reserve list, which will also be implemented. It's not like that, Minister, that only the east wall is neglected. On the episode of Koszalin Bytom throughout Wielkopolska from the north to the south there is a communication desert. This is a question of the course of the S11 road, which for Wielkopolska is a way of life, a real communication spine As you can say, the A2 motorway is the communication arms of Wielkopolska. Greater Poland is extended, like no region, from the north to the south, and there is no road that would merge it. It is dangerous for the region, for its cohesion, for its development. Especially northern Wielkopolska looks like one big white stain on a map prepared by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. And today the Minister declares to us that even these sections, which are well prepared, and also those without which the system, this weak communication system, will be interrupted, are not part of the road construction program. You can't take it calmly! It is true that the significant mileage of the S11 is not yet properly prepared for implementation. But you can't say that about the estuary ring road. I'm sure it's prepared enough that in this financial perspective, little money not only can, Minister, but definitely should be found. It is similar with the crossing of the Warta in Oborniki. There, every day, it's in miles of traffic, and it's growing at a very rapid rate. What I'm saying is on behalf of the locals, I'm speaking on behalf of the locals. Minister, for this reason, the situation is really on the verge of an outbreak of social dissatisfaction. And please take note of that. What are we supposed to do? Today, after your statement, phone calls have already been called. I don't know if we're together with the mayors. And it's not going to have any political impact. We're not gonna stand on these roads, or at least in those places where there's no explanation why we're not doing something, and we're not gonna say enough! I understand that there's politics, that there's the east wall, that there are promises, but that's not how it should be. Poland is not divided into those from the east and those from the west. It divides, as far as national roads are concerned, into areas that are well equipped with roads and where they are lacking. I happen to have this misfortune to live in a place that by successive governments has been overlooked when it comes to building a road that is absolutely vital. Those who come now .. also through efforts.. government agencies, ministers To us, to Sawa, as new investors who will create a significant number of jobs, they heard today a message that probably froze them. Everyone was hoping that the exit from the city in the direction of the eleventh and towards the ring road would be done. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that the area that to the nearest national roads to the motorways is 100 km long is left to itself. I appeal, Minister, to try, however, to do everything possible in this matter. And certainly the outlet and manure with viaduct are possible to perform. Of course, I am happy because before I left for this debate, I was still checking with our General Directorate for Roads That's what I'm excited about. That the money to prepare investments in these strings, outside the bypasses, is supposed to be guaranteed and that there will be tenders, and that this will be done. This is certainly important, but important for a new perspective, and in this one you have to do what is possible in this communication desert. Sometimes I joke that Wielkopolska has its eastern wall, right up north, the northern wall. That's why I'm asking... Don't take it politically. I warn you: we cannot and will not, Minister, wait calmly until you acknowledge this. With all the kindness... I understand different arguments. I tried to listen to you carefully today. And it was all logical until you started proving that we weren't doing the S11 because she wasn't prepared. That's the truth. Only in part. And the part that's prepared should be done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u117	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are programs that need to be continued. Even in the event of a government change, certain programmes need to be continued. There was a wide discussion about local road construction programs. Today we are talking about building national roads. These are programs that are being continued. You might add I don't know. It's like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you There's no question about that. And now it's important what this continuation looks like. On this local road construction programme, I would like to add a few more words, because I remember exactly how we started the first stage in 2009, 3-year-old, and great enthusiasm, especially for local authorities, because 50%, however, co-financing is an important issue. It's called "schetins" at the beginning. Then there was the continuation of this national local program... Today we call it the development program of municipal and district roads. The programme is, of course, very successful. And as it happens... I remember that in the first program we had a billion zlotys, then it was a little bit less or a little more, but it oscillates about the same amount. It's good that this program is continued, maintained. As far as the construction of national roads is concerned, we all see what has changed on the roads over the past years. I always give interesting data on safety and the number of fatalities. In 1991 7 000 901 people died on the roads in Poland, and 2 years ago less than 3 000 people died on the roads in Poland. Last year, this figure slightly exceeded 3,000. See what the difference is here and how it all affects safety. However, the number of cars has increased several times during this time. You can see that there is fundamental progress here. Of course, when it comes to road matters, there's no end here. We'll keep trying to improve road infrastructure. Important decisions are like this. We have the money. We have PLN 135 billion for the next programming period. There is a question of what can be accomplished at this time. Of course, certain documents are necessary, i.e. preparatory documentation, e.g. STES. As far as execution is concerned, this is ZRID. There's also an environmental decision. When it's decided... It's all taking a little longer. Then there's buyouts. This phase lasts 2, 3, 4 years if there are environmental decisions. About that much time it takes to prepare an investment. Now you have to choose and decide what is feasible. Each of us, of course, knows that there are some local road investments that should be implemented quickly. Senator Augustine was talking about the S11 road. This is a very important road, the spine of Wielkopolska. What about its preparation and implementation? The Minister said... As far as documentation is concerned, we know that STEŚ is prepared for the northern part and for the southern part there is a tender. So all the way to the S11 will have preliminaries. That's something, though we know... In 2015, the previous government guaranteed that something like this would be carried out. We're guaranteed that. There is still a question of implementation. The Minister said that during this programming period there is no way to achieve this path. We signal what Senator Augustine said, especially when it comes to these two very important, important episodes. As far as Oborniki and Evacuation are concerned, I think, Minister, that it needs to be included in the program. The discussions that take place show that there is indeed a danger of paralysis. I realize this episode can't be done quickly, but the Oborniki Bridge case... I don't know... I have an idea, Minister. We have troops in Poland, we have territorial defence forces, etc. Maybe it's time for the military to rehearse a little. There will certainly be a temporary crossing, otherwise there will be a blockade of the whole central part of Wielkopolska. The repair of the bridge must be carried out in the near future, there is no doubt. So maybe we should think about it. Maybe the military would practice and build such a temporary bridge as a crossing? The territorial defense forces would help with that. Perhaps this would be a temporary solution for a transitional period, for the work that is necessary to carry out? I'm sure we could discuss and talk about this for a long, long time, but I'd like to raise one more important topic here. It's about the tolls on the highways that the Minister also spoke about. We have a highway built by a concessionaire in the 1990s when there were no government guarantees and when high prices were set. I will say that this is of course about the Greater Poland highway, about the sections of Konin September, September, Poznań, Poznan, New Thought. The toll for the 50 km section is 19 PLN. For the sake of simplicity, I'd like to say that in the Konin section Poznań is paid twice after 19 PLN, or 38 PLN. Back and forth, it's 76 zlotys. One journey costs 76 PLN. In other countries, you can buy vignette for a whole month at this price. It's the same as the fuel cost. If we figure out how much the average car smokes, we'll figure out we're paying double here. Something would have to be done about it, because it's a very big cost. As for the next episode, from New Tomyśl to the border, there were already government guarantees at the construction site and there is a lower price. There's no problem there anymore. These fees are generally a big problem in Wielkopolska. So people don't take detours because they're taking detours... I remember the exact beginning of the construction. I counted the cars on the roads and on the highways myself. We protested that those fees would be lower. Well, it was hard... But it would have to be considered, especially now that AW SA has to pay back the 800 million you spoke of. It would have to be connected somehow, and we would have to wonder if we could find some other reasonable solution to the problem of these charges. However, this affects all matters, and economic development primarily. Minister... Well, I'm running out of time. But let me recap: the request is that, mostly, when it comes to Wielkopolska... I'm not gonna talk about the 25 national road that's being implemented there, and the national road... I think it's the 12th. I'm a friend of yours. He mentioned her, too. But there are priorities you can't walk away from. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that this is about the western ring road of Poznań, which was built during the S11 road, it is a dozen kilometers to Obornik, where there are traffic jams and where there is this mentioned bridge. So there's a request to think about this episode. And there's the case of the estuary bypass, which we've been talking about for, like, 10 years now, and there are different options at the time of the bypassing of the estuary, etc., etc. It's highly advanced, and I think that's the second topic. So the point is that in this program, in which Wielkopolska is practically not included, these two cases are included. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u119	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it's a good thing we're having this debate in the Senate. And I hope that in the years to come we will join the various reports... and every year we will ask Minister Szmit for such information on progress, but also on emerging problems and conclusions that will come from both our discussion and the implementation of this programme. I'd like to... The Minister is busy with the Professor now. Who might find time in the break to talk to the Minister But I would like to say, Minister, that I would like to thank you very much, because what you are presenting... I like your attitude, and when I heard that the Minister was in the Senate, And I didn't even know it... Well, it strongly indicates that the senators are, however, a little different politicians, and I say this without praising myself, so I would like to exclude myself from it. Minister, what you said is the essence here: a continuation of the idea, with the conclusions of the previous mistakes, is one of the elements of progress. Because it's not like when you finish your term I'll tell you my dream here: in 2 years' time It's going to be summed up in such a way that you've done everything wrong or you've done everything right. No, there will be good things and bad things. And that's why I like the Minister's attitude. There is also what the Minister has honestly said: investment in road transport is a process that lasts years. And as we have heard, the investments that the Minister is preparing will be in four years, if you take it from the beginning to the end. And yet you remember the election campaign, and I do not address it specifically to the Minister, i.e. this election campaign with the most expensive roads and all the other lies that then flowed with regard to road investments. Why'd you do that? I am addressing the Senators of Law and Justice who are in the Chamber. 'Cause there's no others here. You did it to win. But victory can be achieved honestly or in a lying way. So I'm gonna quote something to my fellow senate colleagues so that we can get the truth. Mr. Minister presented today from this tribune. They have always used themselves because the power of the charges should be proportionate to the power of the evidence. And strong accusations in the absence of evidence are false accusations. That's what happened about the roads. Here during the discussion I reviewed the PWC report on the cost of construction of motorways and roads in general, of course I also read what Minister Adamczyk said in the Seym a few weeks ago, i.e. that the only success of the previous road transport team is the most expensive in terms of construction, roads in Europe Of course, according to the report of the independent institution, it is not true at all. And now, please note what inscription would appear here during my performance or during meetings with voters: PiS promised to reduce the cost of construction of roads and highways. And what happened here today... Here's about $30 million per kilometer. It's almost $50 million. Well, this is a victory like this ended with 27:1, this is this kind of victory. 27 is less than 1 and 50 is less than 30. Yes? The Minister said what I absolutely agree with, that it is necessary to draw conclusions from errors in the construction of roads and motorways, not to go towards the cheapest offer, because it is politically correct, and also to take into account those who give the guarantee of a reliable implementation of the investment. I think that this attitude presented by the Minister is very good. Another thing. All those things that concern... Such a debatable project was the construction of all these screens. I think you know which environmental minister issued the regulation that these screens are supposed to be the way they are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? Well, the one that was in 2005-2007, and I think it was under the PiS. [[Minister Szyszko just.]] Exactly. It is as the Minister said: the continuation of certain technical solutions is taking place and the investment cannot be interrupted in the course. It's very good to learn from mistakes. I'd like to say that I'm signing up for what Minister Szmit said. I will now move on to two specific points. Minister, we as people from Pomerania, whether from Law and Justice or from the Civic Platform, simply people living in Pomerania and people visiting Pomerania, are very interested in... This is a fundamental thing for the economic development of Pomerania, but also for the comfort of the lives of its inhabitants and visitors, tourists and entrepreneurs. It's about the S6. I'm glad the Minister says there's work to be done, but I'll tell you this. If the programme you are talking about is the implementation of the S6 road from Tricity to Koszalin, you will implement it within the framework of the so-called. PPP, that's a great honor for you. Why? For 25 years this program has not been implemented in Poland as part of a public-private partnership. Why? We, as self-government officials, often fought for favor with this project. We once heard what the real development of PPP shortcut is. It's not a public-private partnership, it's just: remember, the prosecutor's watching. And this is one of the elements that kills this initiative, its implementation in PPP. That's why I'm having big doubts. Minister, it would be very good if the road investment in the case of S6 was not carried out within a single project. I have a lot of concerns, Minister, if you can overcome all these difficulties. As I said, if a German investor comes forward within the PPP, there will be no chance that you will implement it at all. Therefore, it may be worth considering another option. And the other little thing. The Minister said he would answer this question in writing... This applies to the road, perhaps not so important from the point of view of the road development strategy in Poland, namely the Malbork bypass. We often had conversations that... the first stage of the new road The footbridge by Nogat was realized, the footbridge was opened. It helped, but... an element that can actually unload this movement. It is a transport going to the Kaliningrad region, Russia But it's a bypass. I would very much like to ask for the favor of this investment. And finally, Minister, I would very much like to instill in you a desire to do business. I will support you in this respect. For the sake of... I understand that the less we, as Platform people, talk about it, the more chance you'll have. It is about supporting local road investments, i.e. the development of local road networks. This is one of the many programs that went well in Poland, Minister. We very much ask that what concerns support for road investments at the level of local roads be one of the priorities of your department's operation. This is also important from a safety point of view, because on these roads there are buses driving children to schools, people commuting to work. The quality of roads in district Poland, to put it mildly, Minister, is the average. I must say that in recent years we have seen a big increase, and very well, the quality of national roads, and local roads are a little... maybe even very far away from the level at which national roads are today. That's why we're asking you so much to support this local road development program. I don't mention the original name of these roads. I mean, it could be a program called... [[...shmittens.]] ...shmittens. That's what I was gonna say. Perhaps then it will be easier to convince some about the implementation of this programme. Minister, thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[And this is a public-private partnership, I guess.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, to my surprise. I think that not only the voters of the PiS, but also the parts of us, it turns out that the password is a good change just in case of construction of roads... First of all, this good change continues what started you before the good change, because a linear investment cannot be planned within 2 and 3 years and built within 2 and 3 years... After all, from conception to construction it takes several years, if this is to be a new construction, a new course or a major modernization. This is surprising, but on the basis of information about the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014-202023 we have concluded that in case of completion of the construction of roads with a length of 305 km, 19 tasks worth PLN 6 billion 760 million were carried out, right? The cost of 1 km was about PLN 33.5 million. As of November 2015 Then this good change came to power. To this day contracts have been signed for a total of over PLN 20 billion per road of 428.5 km, which is about PLN 48 million per km. Well, the difference is huge and, of course, it is difficult to explain this difference only in inflation. I didn't have time to ask, but the question is... You might want to tell the minister why this jump, in terms of road construction costs, the average cost of road construction, of course. That was the first line. The second point is a local issue, because in most cases we ask about local matters. Although these roads are not related to local transport, because they are national roads and these narrow throats, which are not removed, have an impact on the whole transport in Poland. The Minister said that he did not know, but that perhaps the metropolitan ring road of the Tricity would be built, and rightly said that the metropolitan ring road, this construction is more important and is better than adding another band to the current ring road, which is already blocking at peak hours and creating serious problems for the movement of this part of the agglomeration. This is an agglomeration that already has over 1 million inhabitants. I want to quote the statement of the Civic Platform Club and the Polish People's Party adopted at the session of the Pomeranian Sejm last Monday, 24 September this year. It sounds like this. We are very concerned about the subsequent decisions of the Law and Justice Government, which lead to marginalisation and exclusion of the transport part of Pomerania. At the meeting of the Operational Programme Monitoring Committee on 15 September, the PiS government removed the construction project of the Metropolitan Circuit from the list of major projects. It was also tried to delete sections of the road S6 from Koszalin to Słupsk and from Słupsk to Lębork, and only thanks to the resistance of representatives of local authorities and the European Commission managed to remove this extremely unfavourable decision for Pomerania so far. We are somewhat embarrassed that the European Commission cares more about the fate of the Pomerania people than the Government of the Republic of Poland. The S6 expressway connecting the Tricity with Szczecin is strategically important for Northern Poland. It is incomprehensible why the government of PiS, whose deputy prime minister pointed out the area of Central Pomerania as the most excluded transport in Poland, seeks to bury this investment. What I'm trying to say is this is another battle for this road on this S6 route. ♪ Every once in a while ♪ She goes in and out, she goes in and out. So it is worth to see this statement adopted by two clubs in the Sejm of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, two clubs, which are the governing clubs, but not only from the political side, but also from the substantive side. The S6 road and the Tricity ring road are the investments necessary for this region. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Are you the Minister of... I don't know... Oh, there's the minister. Would the Minister like to speak again? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you very warmly for this debate today, for the votes which, in the vast majority I think that actually all of them were, so to speak, aimed at improving road construction, strengthening it, providing it with financial resources. And here's the first conclusion. I think that if you were talking here to you from the Civic Platform with less energy protesting against the Self-Government Road Fund, this fund would probably already be and, I think, a significant part of the problems with regard to local roads would be solved. And we wouldn't have that problem. Well, sometimes it's that you have to bear the consequences of your commitment, so full. You take this country, as I said, into your political consciences, and it's already your problem more than... And the problem of local governments, which will still have no money to make these investments. [[Voice from the hall: And the government.]] And the government's problem too, of course. It's just that we have our specific powers. Our government is competent for domestic, express roads, and we are primarily responsible for this. And that is our duty, which we are doing and within which we are presenting this report to the High House. There were also amounts of road construction costs. I also said that in my speech. It's just that we're gonna be definitely still this year, and probably to a large extent, and for the next year, we're gonna be signing contracts that have been made before... What's the problem, ladies and gentlemen? Because that's not something you can use in political terms. The problem was that the way of road design in Poland in previous years was based on And it lasted 8 years, so today we collect the gleam of this way of designing the general over-dimension of roads. It was an over-dimension, which was too big parameters, too big transitions for animals, as I was talking about, absolutely exceeding the needs of investments, whose functions could be realized at a much lower price. And it's really... It's hard to say what it came from, that this design was so inefficient, so inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, please really compare the construction costs of the roads that have been and which are unfortunately still, with what is in Western Europe. There really is a difference here, and we're talking about it carefully. What we're doing today is, first of all, the transition... these are changes at this first stage of road design, building projects to make them rational. The point is not to build roads that are 200 m long because there is no need; the roads in which the reserve lanes are left, which will be used in several decades or will never be used; the roads where the crossings are built for animals that require a few kilometers to be drawn, raised by 1 m or 2 m, which obviously results in the need to spend hundreds of millions of zlotys on land works, to drive aggregates or to build large engineering facilities that are not justified, have no justification. And this is an engineering discussion, this is a specialist discussion. Hence this thread only now, during my last speech, I raise, because I would not like to talk about such technical details here. But this is the essence of expensive roads in Poland. These were decisions that were made and, unfortunately, we will still have to deal with, until the implementation of the projects that were then created, which were approved, which were adopted, will end and in a new way these new projects will not enter into use, into implementation. I would also like to draw attention to such a thing here. Several senators raised the question of comparison between 2016 and 2017, saying that construction costs for 1 km increased from 30 million to 50 million. As part of the agreements signed in 2017... last year there were also contracts for the southern ring road of Warsaw. And in the case of the section on which the tunnel under Ursynov will run, the cost of 1 km is emphasized: the cost of 1 km of this route amounted to PLN 431 million. But I'm not saying whether it's too much of a cost, whether it's too low or it's cheaper, but I'm just saying that if you use these statistics, there are also investments in these statistics that give billions and then project a dozen or dozen more, which are given as an example of how these costs have not yet been reduced. I say this clearly and clearly: the costs in the near future, within a year or two years will not be radically reduced, because today we are implementing projects that have been prepared, one can say, according to any other idea of building roads. I guess that's what you'd have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, thank you very much for all the votes concerning individual investments. We'll analyze them all. We will analyze both the Tricity and Obornik cases, because these are extremely important things for the Polish road system. Thank you, and I hope that we can meet, for example, in a year's time, just like the High House will decide whether or not in another convention and we will be able to continue discuss road construction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u125	Thank you very much, Minister, for giving the Senate the information. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 594, and the report of the Commission In print No 594 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to present to the High House a report by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 15 September 2017 amending the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management and certain other laws. Marshal of the Senate on September 18th this year. He sent the bill to the committee. The committees of September 21st have examined the bill. The main objective of the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management passed to the Senate and some other laws is to adapt the Polish law to the provisions of the 2015 Directive, which amends the Directive previously issued with regard to the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. In the explanatory memorandum of that law, the Ministry stresses that this amending act introduces into the Law of 13 June 2013 on packaging and packaging waste management, hereinafter also referred to as the Package Management Act, in addition to the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2015/720, also amendments resulting from the examination of the application of its provisions from the date of entry into force of the Law, i.e. from 1 January 2014 Following the introduction of a recycling levy related to the new regulation on lightweight plastic carrier bags in the Act, the scope of the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act has been supplemented. The definitions of oxidative plastic shopping bags and plastic shopping bags have also been introduced, including light shopping bags and very light shopping bags, and the definition of plastic. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulations adopted are really moving towards reducing the use of plastic packaging. The life span of such a bag is very short and ranges from several to literally several minutes or several dozen minutes. This is the time it takes to move products from the store to the car or from the car to the house. And most of the time, such packages go to the trash can. It is estimated that today the number of plastic bags used per year is We use more than 11 billion packages a year. And that's a very large number. The directive, which had already been examined in the previous term of office, was prepared by the Minister at the time for transposition into Polish law, but was not accepted at the time. But at that time it was clear that we had to go in this direction in order to limit the use of plastic bags, because it is a very difficult product to degrade. The best actuator is to introduce a certain kind of charge. Of course, the law does not specify what its height will be, it merely restricts that it cannot exceed the value of 1 PLN. The exact rate will be set in the Regulation. Such an instrument, such a proposal, will get every citizen to reduce the number of bags that are difficult to degrade, plastic bags. This law, this regulation does not cover such thin, very thin disposable bags that are needed for everyday use related to the packaging of products that require such packaging. For example, these are products that are difficult to put in a different kind of packaging, e.g. Some sauerkraut or cabbage, these kinds of products that require such a one-off... and these are usually such very thin plastic bags. The other bags will be covered by this regulation. It's supposed to get us all, citizens, back to a good old tradition. For use in linen bags or reusable bags. In short, it's about taking care of the environment. During the debate, various suggestions were made during the committee meeting, including: that it is a law that has some repressive effects on citizens because it obliges them to pay a fee. However, if we looked at it in a broader context, we would notice that it will mobilize us all to limit the use of these disposable bags and remember that products can be moved or transported by means of re-use bags. There were also words in the discussion during the committee's work... Maybe I won't quote them anymore. I will only point to these remarks from the Legal Office, from your patron, who found acceptance of the senators during the debate. Four amendments were accepted, including two drafting amendments. The first amendment and the third amendment are editorial amendments. The second amendment is linked to certain consequences of the obligation to report to municipal waste collectors. This is the necessary consequence of such regulation. This is an amendment to the Article. 4 amendments. Another amendment, not editorial, but substantive, is an amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. This is amendment four in this table. She sets a deadline for the preparation of the regulation for 24 months. Following an examination of the 4 amendments tabled by me, the committee requests that the bill be adopted together with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u128	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, that's the question. I think it's for the Minister, but you might be able to answer them, too. I received a request from Mr. Krzysztof Syrziski, which is as follows. Small bags of HDB film up to 15 μm long are to be exempt from this charge provided they are packed with food, e.g. Candy, chicken leg, etc. Having a haberdashery store, I put it in plastic bags like this. 15 buttons or 6 sections of ribbons, each after 3 m. I want this small, but not food, to be exempt from the recycling charge. Please make such an amendment. Would the senator be kind enough to answer... I know the answer you're going to give. Perhaps the senator would be kind enough to answer that question of our constituents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u129	Mr. Senator, I don't have the ability to see, so I don't know what the Minister has personally said to you in the meantime... [[Excuse me.]] I can only say that this kind of problem was not reported at the committee meeting. In my opinion, it shouldn't be a barrier, because it's hard to do these buttons or other things for a different packaging... Although I imagine it could also be so that in the case of the type of things we buy, the seller can prepare some paper bag. That won't be an obstacle... This will certainly not generate additional costs and at the same time reduce the amount of waste. It's just my interpretation. Such a discussion was not held at the committee meeting. [[Well, then, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll be the one asking the Minister. If he answers, the voter will be satisfied. I just don't know in what mode... can it be done now or later?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u130	In a minute... [[Thanks. I'm the one who put it together.]] Are there any more questions? Marshal Maria Paniczyk-Podziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u131	We're talking mainly about plastic bags here. How do we go, for example? To the bread stand, we can see that they're packing pie in these boxes, plastic ones too. Right? Will this also apply to such packaging? Because they're probably even more so, so to speak, harmful to the environment, and they take up a lot of space. Did the committee say anything about this, too? Will we ever deal with such matters?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Such a problem was not reported at the committee meeting. It is certainly that life is more multicolored than any applicable legal instrument, any article of the amended law. In this particular case... I stress that this is just my position, and I don't even know if I'm allowed to say it right now. Well, I think that when we talk about bread, it is generally the tendency at the moment to put bread in organic bags, paper bags, which also allow hygienic transport. In my experience and in my observation, such solutions are applied. Do you have to put one bun in a thick plastic box? I'd be against it. I have no doubt that this is something we should give up. [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podzier: No, no, I don't mean bread. It's just...]] [[The voice from the hall:...about the cake.]] [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: It is common. Cakes get into these big plastic boxes. It's everywhere right now.]] Yes, Mrs. Marshal, but I've noticed that paper boxes, cartons, actually mini-cards are used for such products. But this is, again, just my position.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u133	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? Here you go, Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u134	Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you about the motivation to introduce this rate, the rate of 1 PLN. I'd like to learn that philosophy. We introduce a maximum charge of PLN 1 per bag of foil and we immediately say that we will not apply this rate. Then why go out with that kind of stakes at all? Why 1 PLN, not e.g. 100 PLN, 1 thousand PLN, 50 gr? If it goes to the citizens that we introduce a stake in the bill, which we will never introduce, then what's the stake for?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u135	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u136	Many times in the legislative process, we have adopted solutions that set a framework. This law proposes the preparation of a regulation. The Minister also said that this precisely defined rate would be found in the regulation. This is due to the fact that otherwise, if we wanted to change this rate, we would have to revise the law, and the research submitted by the Minister indicates that a fee of around 20 gr will be accepted. If, in a year's time or two years' time, the Ministry evaluates that this law does not work and that the rate is too low, then it will have instruments to change this rate. In turn, the statutory regulation would limit, in quotes of course, the possibility of such action by the Ministry. That is how I understood it at the committee meeting, and this is what we accepted as joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u137	Thank you. Senator Wczyła still wants to ask. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u138	I'm going to ask you something as a senator who will vote for or reject this bill. Isn't it uncomfortable for you to make a decision on the amount of additional taxation? 'Cause that's what you might call it, too. The citizens' costs of this law, otherwise valid in principle, without knowing whether the consumption of packaging we are now taking will be global. 2 billion zlotys or 11 billion zlotys? Doesn't that make a difference to you as a senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u139	Mr Senator, this question goes beyond the competence of the Senator rapporteur. Each of us, each in this room, makes decisions based on our own knowledge, our own experience, and, I would even say, some parliamentarians' wisdom. This question goes beyond what I am required to submit to the High Senate, which is why I am avoiding the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u140	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? You're welcome, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether during a committee meeting a representative of the Ministry, a minister, or perhaps someone else, e.g. During the discussion, he provided information on solutions that already exist in the countries of the European Union. Because, as I understand it, extortion of this kind... the introduction of this type of charge or regulation, which is intended to reduce the use of such foil bags, is the result of the EU directive. What are the solutions in the countries of the European Union? What are the fees introduced in these countries, and how are EU countries generally dealing with this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u142	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u143	Yes, information on 13 countries' experiences has been presented. The Minister has called for some solutions. These solutions do not go so far, they are not so restrictive that they completely eliminate the possibility of using plastic bags. That's the solution, and that's how I got it, which is the most widely used one that mobilizes and which is justified by some rationalness in management. And this information, I confirm, was presented at the joint committee meeting by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u144	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Sławomir Mazurek is with us today. Please, Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill? You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his very thorough presentation of the government proposal for a law on amending the legislation on packaging and packaging waste management. This is an important project from the perspective of the implementation of European Union legislation, because we have been obliged as a country to reduce the number of plastic bags. The directive we are implementing has been negotiated during the rule of the Civic Platform. We have to make it happen. This directive aims to minimise the number of plastic bags that are marketed to consumers. This is important because then these waste becomes a big problem and in recycling, because this is, in terms of collecting the pollution that these plastic bags are... Moreover, this was presented at a committee meeting by representatives of one of the municipal companies. This is problematic waste. At the same time, from the perspective of the Minister of the Environment, it is very important that plastic bags go to living organisms and pollute the environment. In the spring, instead of leaves, they hang foil nets. This is, ladies and gentlemen, not only a landscape issue or a culture of coexistence with the environment, because when it comes to marine mammals, such waste is often found in their guts and they also cause the deaths of these animals. As far as the introduction of the financial mechanism is concerned, we have chosen the option that the previous government has been working on. I will remind you of an article from 2014 in which my predecessor in the Civic Platform government, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, said in one of the journals that his hand would not shake when he introduced plastic bags, if it would help to achieve the objectives of the directive. Of course, I shuddered and asked for additional analyses of the effectiveness of these solutions, their effectiveness, their impact on a number of aspects. It was about whether this was an effective solution. We conducted appropriate surveys, assessed solutions in other countries of the European Union. 13 countries have already introduced such a solution. The example of Ireland shows... That kind of solution was effective there. These analyses, which we carried out, showed that the 20 gr fee would already be a fee that would lead to some reflection. Because that's the positive purpose of this bill. To encourage people to use multi-material bags. Each of the senators today I left such a large box in the Senate Office, and he will be able to equip himself with such a bag, a bag which is a multi-material bag. Such a bag can be used repeatedly. It's made of fabric. We could have used a different solution. We could commit citizens, oblige the Republic to make the number of bags Today it is 300, 250 units, depending on the estimate, has been reduced to 90 units per person by 31 December 2019 and 40 units per person by 31 December 2025. But in order to carry out this kind of commitment, we might have to apply even more drastic methods, and I believe that Poles are a wise nation. We've used this kind of re-use grids before, and many retail outlets also offer these kinds of grids that can be used multiple times. And that's what we've come up with. The perspective that Senator rapporteur spoke about, 11.5 billion plastic bags a year... That's a huge amount. Only here can you see how big this scale is, the amount of these bags in the environment. And their vitality, as has been said, is very short. The aim of the government is not to introduce any tax, we simply have to do what the European Union's laws require of us. In addition, the tax is inevitable, and in this case there is no such danger, because every citizen can choose the packaging, he can choose a plastic bag, so-called. A commercial... Note, too, that we often become advertising poles by advertising one or another network. So it's worth it. Considering that we don't have to be them, we can take a re-use bag. Then we will serve not only our pockets, but also the environment. It seems to me that this is also important from such a consumer perspective, as well as from the perspective of what we are negotiating now within the waste package, within the closed-loop economy, which talks about saving resources. The idea is to use re-use bags so as not to put additional pressure on the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that there is one more thing that we are doing on the occasion of this transposition. This area of business, which is waste management, is such a quite sensitive area, requiring far-reaching changes. They must be implemented in a reasonable manner and in accordance with European law, so as to be effective, but also to counter the phenomena that have taken place. Last year, ladies and gentlemen, We know this by reading the reports that we received from the recovery organisation, each of you would have to have in the house boxes in which you pack everything, because there have been such irregularities... In the reports there was information that Poles simply switched to wood and, so to speak, this wood was implemented by commitments to the law. After receiving reports from the marshals, it turned out that of 80% or more than 80% We have 0.01%. That's part of the percentage. This kind of practice... We have put in place a number of actions, building on the experience of inspections and discussions with all stakeholders, in order to bring this system to a close. Of course, there is a great challenge ahead of us in implementing the waste package, the circular economy, and we will have to take a lot of action here. We're going to change six directives, so it's going to be a very big challenge for the legislator, and for the government that has to... We are negotiating now, and we will have to amend these directives in a moment. A very important element is the extended responsibility of the manufacturer. The aim is to ensure that the introductory producers are able to participate more in the costs that the consumer then incurs, or in those costs that concern the environment. That's what I'm talking about... I wanted to use this moment to answer some of the questions that came out, but I think I've already answered most of them. If I may, if Mr. Marshal agrees, I will only answer that question, Senator, regarding plastic packaging, packing food products into such quasi-boxes. They're a phenomenon... They are used by consumers and should go to a selective collection, to re-processing, to recycling. Of course, thank you very much for this attention on paper packaging. It's kind of a good road. In Milanówek, bread is made in paper in a bakery, and it is not only in one bakery. Sometimes you have to ask, but it's also a consumer matter. It is known that the bread packed in paper is tastier. And that's the direction that's worth promoting. It seems to me that the manufacturer's responsibility will also be such and those values that companies will have to implement will be going in this direction in order to avoid plastic packaging. And if they have to be or for other reasons they are, they have to go to recycling, in ex ante conditionality we have introduced uniform standards for selective collection throughout Poland, so we will definitely implement it. There was also a question that did not come up in the Senate, but it appeared during the discussions of the Parliamentary Committees, a question about the packing of nails, buttons. In fact, in haberdashery very often, e.g. in Brwinów, such things are packed in paper packaging, in Warsaw similarly. But I must tell you that this directive, which is an important point of reference for us, is that only those ultrathin bags that are used for sanitary purposes, for bulk packaging, are used for sanitary reasons can be excluded from this reduction. Here's the shut-down. Besides, we're supposed to reduce the number of these bags as well. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present your position to the government. I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u146	At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute. - Yes, please stay. Questions to the representative of the government related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, the senator is first. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Perhaps there would be no part of the discussion and questions if this recycling charge were actually included in the present law. And so there is some concern that, at any moment, if a regulation appears... Because when it appears, it is not known, although the rule is that the law is adopted with already existing regulations. This option was introduced by you in the water law, that the maximum price is determined and it is not known how it will evolve. And that's what you want to do in this case. This is some kind of uncertainty for the citizen. How can you explain that? 'Cause I'm gonna take the floor in the discussion and bring it in. Okay, I'll give you a heads-up. For writing 20 gr for such a bag in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u148	You ask Senator Grabowski another question, and then I'll ask the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna ask the Minister to elaborate on the subject. The Minister pointed out that you have analyzed the effectiveness of the solutions. You have given, Minister, an Irish example, which is a positive example. I would like the Minister to develop this thread and point out what it looks like in other countries. And if, what is important, the Minister pointed out specifically what is the indicative cost of such packaging in the countries of the European Union, in those 13 countries which have already implemented or implemented this directive... And what's the efficiency there? And the second question, Minister. Because during this discussion about particularly packaging of bread in plastic bags, there was a question of how they will be treated, often seen in online groceries, bags that are partly paper and partly foil. I mean, there's bags like that. How will they be qualified? Are these plastic packaging, plastic packaging, or are these paper packaging? Because it's a combination of paper and transparent foil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u150	You're still Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, because there have been some pretty alarming comments in the media that this bag will cost even a little more than a zloty. What instruments will the government have for these prices to be, I would say, rationalized? Because there are situations that even when you're expecting to make some purchases or by buying something, by purchasing something, by purchasing anything, man is not always prepared to carry a reusable bag. And then he has to use a one-off, or he's just not gonna take the product out of the store. It's just that there's gonna be some kind of, I'd say, instruments that will give some kind of control, so that the price level of these bags is somehow rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u152	Minister, you're welcome. First answer this series of questions, then there will be further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u153	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As for the senator's question about the recycling charge and the uncertainty, I'd like to reassure you. As far as I'm concerned... I also look at this from the perspective of what one of the Members of the Civic Platform reported, speaking of French examples, and in France it was completely forbidden to use plastic vessels; this is the direction. Then the Member changed his position and said that a maximum amount should be set at 20 gr. I would like to reassure you about the regulation. We will give the amount of 20 gr and this will be the amount that will be subject to public consultation. Maximum amount or fee in the amount of cash... Let us remember what the purpose of this law is. It's about restricting the use of these bags. What kind of mechanism do we choose? Financial mechanism. We assume, on the basis of the research that we have done, that this 20 gr will be sufficient, but we must remember the goal that is ahead of us, the goal to achieve, i.e. to reduce the number of these bags. We could have picked another option, the one I was talking about. And I was talking about reducing plastic bags to 90 pieces by 31 December 2019. Then there would really have to be mechanisms that... this bag would have to cost a lot more or we would have to ban the use of these bags. It seems to me that for such drastic actions neither the Polish consumer nor... It's about the rationality that Senator Jackowski was talking about. It seems that... we didn't agree to that, but it didn't seem easy, but it was preceded by an analysis, a survey on what would discourage the use of a plastic bag. Well, that's how it was negotiated, that's how the directive was carried out. And that's what we used. Talking about that gold that came out and appeared as such, so to speak, the main message, or talking about tax at all... Well, it's kind of hard for me to get into some kind of political message, some kind of day broadcasts that are talking about taxes. I'm talking about the directive. I am talking about the fact that this directive has been negotiated in such, not in other, specific circumstances and with such, and not with any other participation... I also remind you of the words of my predecessor on the Civic Platform that his hand will not shake. And my hand was really shaking. And we have really been very careful about what this fee should be to achieve the objective of the directive, the one that has been passed on to us. And as a result of that discussion, which took place in 2014 and earlier, there are those fees that you are already paying in shops today. Very often these bags are no longer free. It's just that today this fee is something that the store earns, while providing itself with an ad for its network, so the consumer here is paying double. At the same time, the number of bags that are marketed is not decreasing. As for Senator Grabowski's question about these examples... Thank you so much for that question. In part, I answered them on the previous question, saying that we had an analysis. 13 countries have already introduced this fee. Ireland introduced a fee of 25 cents. And there significantly, the number of these bags has dropped dramatically. Of course, the consciousness itself... When we look at it not from the perspective of Warsaw, but a pensioner who goes shopping in a medium-sized city, goes to another store, to another store, to buy a more reasonable... They are already supplied with such bags, in re-use bags, because such people have to count money well. In contrast, in large cities it is also a question of fashion, of fashion that, first of all, does not be an advertising post, secondly, a fashion to use re-use bags. Many large commercial networks also offer such bags as an element not only of image, but also of a certain income. Today it is very often the income of the network, and it is intended to be used for actions related to sustainable development, which the government is implementing. But the point is also that we should educate in terms of the consequences and certain obligations arising from the implementation of European law. We also conducted surveys, asked what the fee should be for the resident, a Pole who goes shopping. Which will discourage him, which will encourage him to get his bag from home. Because we often have these bags at home, there are networks where we buy some products, and there are very good ones... or, for example, there are situations where loyalty programs assume that such a re-use bag costs very little. And there are examples, for example. when it comes to one of the foreign networks. But there are also examples that paper bags are offered for free to encourage this... But it's different shop policy. We also analyzed this, I also made such a tour of shops and markets, and my boss obliged me to do so in order to find out exactly how these prices are shaped, not just in terms of this survey. So I could cross that data, maybe... It also gives me a guarantee and confidence that the amount of 20 cents will be sufficient. But, ladies and gentlemen, as part of such, let's say, a pre-consultation turned out to be a lot of entities who believe that this should be effective so that we reduce... this fee should be drastically higher. Well, since we are in the European Union, since we are implementing European law, it should be higher. We should totally ban plastic. That's the kind of voice that pops up. We are trying to achieve rationality, efficiency of the system, and at the same time to provide a margin to influence... To make a regulation that we can issue faster... In order to respond to these needs, which are precisely the result of increasing ambition, the realisation of the idea of a circular economy. To do this to the best of our capabilities and capabilities of every Pole, with all care and responsibility. About the packaging that's... The Directive refers to plastic bags, there is no mention of multi-material packaging. In case there are 2 materials, it is already a different kind of packaging. But when we look at the size of these bags in this mass... That's not another 11.5 billion, is it? So let's see what number The foils we speak. Which we sometimes take with great surprise, because many people don't even feel it when they just take a bag like that, buy it and throw it away, buy it and throw it away. The circular economy is to move away from the linear model, to the one in which we even use waste as raw material. And in order to do that, it is also worth using some resource efficiency in this area. Thank you again to Senator Jackowski for that question. The regulation gives the government the opportunity to react actively to the changes that are taking place. Our studies, which we have carried out, examples of other European countries, show that even the introduction of the fee mentioned here will result in the implementation of the directive. Well, the commitment that in 2019, by 31 December, each of the Poles will use an average of 90 bags per year, is somewhat dwarf. Today we're talking about 250 and 300 bags per citizen per year. Well, it may be difficult, without such a mechanism, it could simply be unattainable. And the failure to implement European law involves certain sanctions. These levels will be defined in the regulation, in a very broad consultation, but also on the basis of the analyses that we have carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u154	Senator Ryszka is asking a question now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question, a little as a layman, that is, a cashier's program. Because a few hundred thousand entities will have to implement this program. Is there any cost of handling this program, then the cost of paying off this tax? How does it look, and has the government thought about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u156	There you go... Excuse me, maybe one more question. Senator Czerwinski was still reporting. And it's gonna be a block.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u157	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, we often face such a situation that the European Union forces or demands us to introduce a rule that is more ideological than concrete. Please tell me: why are the plastic bags only included, the ones where we shop, not e.g. for disposable plastic cups or cutlery, which also consume tons? And what's more toxic to the environment? What is slower and harder to decompose? Whether a plastic bag, which is usually made of plastic, which is called polyethylene, or a plastic cup or e.g. The plastic-paper box that he's packing into, let's put on, batteries or all the small stuff that we see not only in groceries? Do you understand? The thing is, there's paper in the back, and there's paper in the front. Hard plastic, and it's different... It's definitely not polyethylene. Which one of these plastics decomposes slower? And why are these plastic bags indicated here? Why are they so important?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u158	Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u159	I'm sorry, I was just filling out an excuse, and somehow I just... Dear Minister, I understand that these requirements apply to all plastic bags with these specified parameters, including those which are issued, say, in clothing, footwear shops. I mean. Although the product is packed in some cardboard box that is also suitable or not suitable for recycling, one more bag comes in. This means that these other stores will also have to include such a fee in their spot programs. And here there's no distinction as to whether it's gonna be a big bag or a small bag, what's the thickness of that bag... [[Voice from the room: Thickness here is important.]] There's a threshold here, isn't there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u160	You're welcome, Minister. A series of three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Senator Ryszka's question regarding the costs of such a system is concerned, such a question has just been raised... Fortunately, I have the honour to represent the Minister of the Environment in the Committee of the Council of Ministers for Digitalisation, so the issues of digitalisation, how these systems work and how the issue of digitalisation is developing, are also the subject of our deliberations. In the case of a large network, these computer systems are often kind of tense and really reprogramming it is a matter of 3 days. I mean, it doesn't involve... It is so that today, in the digital age, you can do it just very quickly. And it's not a particular cost. His case was raised by the interests of certain groups during the committee's work, but we made sure that we did not only have knowledge, but we also checked it again. It is certainly not a very long-term process. Right? So it's not a problem from this side. As for Senator Czerwinski's questions about why it happened, how it happened I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. why these bags have become such a point of interest to the Commission and why countries, when working on the directive, have decided together to limit the number of these bags... Of course, there are environmental issues here, and it is generally necessary to say that innovation is forcing the use of new technologies, new materials, and there are certain interest groups that work in this area, but there are also innovative actions that we can apply when it comes to moving to the next stage that we are talking about, i.e. the implementation of the sustainable development and circular economy model. Plastic bags have it to themselves, as I said, they're clogging the sewers, they're hard to recycle, they get dirty very often. You can process them, you can do it, only it's quite expensive. Let us remember that this is quite expensive when it comes to their processing. And this is where we always move in the hydrocarbon derivatives area, right? So this is... We need to be aware of that. And that's how it was negotiated. This is what the Member States agreed to do, i.e. that this particular group should be regulated. I'm sure we have to remember one more thing, I mean. that even if such a bag disappears and we don't see it, still particles of this plastic are in the water or in various other places, and these larger bags are just... Well, you can go to Hel and see what it looks like with our seals, what you can find, what pseudos... well, not so much wealth as the garbage in these seals' bodies. Yeah, but so did I. That's the way it goes from the Baltic Sea. What happens in pumps when it comes to water and sewage systems is disturbing. With regard to this plastic we are talking about, today plastic can be recycled and it is easier to use this hard plastic, speaking non-special language, recycling, recycling, recycling in its case. And that's important, too. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen. And I see that there are senators here who are interested in environmental issues. In fact, we need to achieve the target of 50% recycling, so we will achieve this goal by subjecting these materials to recycling. At the same time, the argument raised is very important that there are multi-material packaging. This extended producer responsibility, this issue of handling according to the waste hierarchy, but also a very important issue, so-called. ecodesign... In this way they produce... And entrepreneurs will be encouraged, to say gently, or obliged, to design packaging so that they can be easily recycled, so that, of course, they include this marketing aspect, as if they were offering a product... 'Cause it seems like the time of the foster pack I remember when I was a kid is behind us. It is simply that it is easy to separate into individual factions, slightly different from that in the capital city of Warsaw. Because in others, e.g. in a smaller city such as Krasnobrod, the waste is divided into individual fractions, the plastic separates from the paper and then there is a high effect. Those little cities are already coming up to reach that 50%. recycling. That's why it's a purpose. I think I answered all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u162	No further questions. Then I'll open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka. [[Not anymore.]] [[For protocol.]] Protocol? It's Senator Jerzy Wczyła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The idea of the Package Management Act is undoubtedly right. Action must be taken that results in desirable attitudes. And this desirable attitude in this case is to limit the use of plastic bags. There is no need to convince anyone of the harmfulness of their use, and the Minister also spoke about it today. Of course, there are other ways to try. As one senator suggested here, it is possible to prohibit the production of such packaging at all. But I can imagine. If such a law were to be established, how many people would have to be employed for control, reporting, for various studies to check whether such a law is being implemented. For this reference to the universal principle, who uses, this pays is undoubtedly and more effective, and cheaper when it comes to implementation. You want to use plastic bags? Pay up. Don't you want to pay? Use reusable or easily degraded packaging. So that's a good solution. But unfortunately, I will not vote in favour of this bill. Why? Because as the saying goes, the devil is in the details. These details, or perhaps better, circumstances, because we are talking about potential billions of zlotys, which can be pulled out of the pockets of Poles, undermine the belief that the act is really about protecting the environment. The first circumstance is the amount of the fee. The Act gives the government the right to introduce a fee of PLN 1 per bag. Although the government swears that it will apply only 20 gr for this package, up to 20 gr, it leaves itself the right to raise this fee by 500%. Why? A similar maneuver was used in water law and later the Minister also said that water power plants would not pay 14 billion PLN in the form of tax, but only 60 million PLN. So why would there be such a possibility that you could charge such a high fee to an entity? As a senator, I believe that the government should never have the right to such great freedom in raising the various types of fees or taxes that burden society. This is why a parliament was invented, which is the nation's chosen guardian of laws, so that Parliaments should not be deprived of the possibilities and their prerogatives in determining the rights which are a burden on society. I don't want to deprive myself of such rights. And this is not about small amounts, because the analyses that were given here show that Poles use about 300 bags per year, i.e. in case of introduction of 20 gr per bag it will be over PLN 2 billion, and in case of introduction of 1 PLN it will be over PLN 11 billion. I cannot vote for a law that gives the government the right to reach into the pockets of Poles for 2 billion or even 11 billion PLN. And justification that Poles do not have to pay this fee at all... That's a weak explanation. Well, because we have to relate to reality, not to predictions or speculation, the more that The second fact is that this money is intended to fund the state budget, but it will be a form of purchasing tax. And according to the intention, the fee charged for environmental protection should be immediately mandatory for environmental purposes. There should be no possibility of using these measures for any other purpose. Therefore, the Senators of the Civil Platform demand that the recipient of these funds should not be the state budget, but the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This will ensure that these measures are directed towards the purpose for which these fees have been introduced. The third circumstance is the rush to introduce a law. The government insists on introducing it sooner than it is bound by this EU directive. This haste, among others. The government representative at the committee meeting explained the impossibility of introducing provisions that would be more effective in organising the buying-in of bottles, which is also a major environmental problem. But the government isn't prepared for this solution today. The relevant amendment was rejected at the committee meeting by the votes of the Senators of the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: Platforms?]] Sorry, Senators of Law and Justice. In my opinion, this is the fourth fact that environmental protection is not the highest objective in this law. The real goal is to introduce, in my opinion, a new fee that will allow the Poles to draw several billion zlotys out of their pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u164	Senator Stanisławek will speak now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased with this initiative, which is the implementation of EU directives. It's a pretty high consumption of those plastic bags that the Minister was talking about, and I have to say I'm very upset. Two weeks or three weeks ago, a press release appeared that one African country, possibly Nigeria, introduced a ban, a total ban on the use of plastic bags. And I was so surprised... I thought how far we are in thinking about protecting the environment in Europe behind the African countries. Of course, this is a very small step towards improving environmental protection in Poland. However, I personally would go towards the solution introduced by this African country, because I am a surgeon and only good solutions, which are complete solutions, introduce a clear understanding of certain issues. I would totally prohibit the use of plastic bags, but this is an initiative, I think, for the future for the Ministry of Environment, about which the Ministry would certainly find support in the Senate. Mr. Senator Vistula, I'm making an amendment that... you thought the money would go to the budget. No. There is an initiative that this money from the foil bags will strengthen the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and go to fight against low emissions, so that this smog, which will soon return to Poland, will be smaller each year. And that's the amendment I'm making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u166	Thank you, Senator. Now you have the voice of Senator Rotnick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm not going to be original, because some of the proposals I've been wanting to talk about have already been made by a friend of Wcisła's. We're on the same committee and we've talked about a lot of things. I am standing in a position, and I am actually maintaining the position that the amount of the recycling levy should be included in the law that we are working on because the amendments are almost everyday today. Sometimes for even more trivial reasons, we amend laws, so that's not an argument for me. I'll make an adjustment. Second thing. As regards the changes that I would propose in this Act, they would also apply to the location of the money that we will receive from this recycling levy. It is clear that, in our understanding, it is to be a fund that will simply support all environmental measures. This also applies to the antismog law, but above all to waste management. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are already sorting waste into 5 categories: plastic, color bottles, white bottles, paper, glass, green waste, etc. The cost of all this is borne by the citizen, paying for the garbage collection. I'll be brief: it's all on us. And we also have to pay this recycling charge, which I will, of course, pay. I'd be willing to... Well, if those bags weren't there, maybe it would be best, although our society doesn't like to adapt to things that make everyday life difficult in some way. Because it's easier to get out of the house when you know we'll always get a bag than to worry about having to take that bag with us, the more that we don't necessarily go shopping right away, we just sometimes buy something by the way. Therefore, I support this proposal that the recycling levy should not feed the state budget, but constitute the income of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which is predisposed to the appropriate allocation of resources for the various ongoing environmental actions. Finally, another case, which concerns the deadline for introducing the obligation to pay that fee. This is enshrined in this Act in such a way that the recycling levy should enter into force on 1 January 2018. This term is extremely short. It's only been two months. How are traders supposed to adapt to this? This is extremely difficult, for example because it is the closing period of the entire financial year. There will be reports, there will be... I don't know what it's called. Then there'll be remanents, et cetera. I therefore propose a delay in the implementation of this recycling law by 1 January 2019, as such a limit line is established by the EU Directive which obliges us to introduce these provisions. The very idea of the bill is, of course, light and to all of us, or at least to those who deal with environmental matters, responds. In some cases we should be even more restrictive, but this restraint is not always effective. Education and awareness of what we should do to protect what nature has given us are more effective. So that, Mr. Minister, I know that you disagree with me at some points, and I'm sure you'll maintain your position, and I'll maintain my position as well. But I'm sure there'll still be a lot of things to work on, and then maybe we'll find an agreement. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I am making amendments, and I ask you to accept them at committee meetings and then in plenary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u168	Thank you. Senator Rulewski will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am indulging in the continuation of this voice, that we still need to consider, not only the one who gives us the mandate of the High House, to make limited changes. I would like to extend my speech to another issue that is missing notice and even boycotted. Well, let's see. By certain influence agents... We're dealing with a case of miserable plastic bags. It is indeed so, High Izbo, Minister, that it is not only Polish but also European and global concern. I have no doubt about that. I would even say that this is a bit embarrassing for Poland or Poles. It is said that the Pole is recognized not by passport, identity card or PESEL number, only by what he carries with him Or a basket, a bag, or breakfast to work in a plastic bag. It's neither hygienic nor pleasant. There's nothing to suggest that we're that poor. It's just that people have gotten into manners so that it's all... Like beer today in Poland, the foil bag has also become part of our culture... without adjectives. This, of course, is detrimental to environmental protection. It may even affect costs, although the calculation is already difficult. These bags are crazy cheap. I would like to infect you with this idea to continue working on the issue of PETs. Well, I think that PETs are a bigger problem in Poland. For a few reasons, but not all of them, because I'm not a specialist... I would like to add that during the previous term, if not earlier, I took the initiative, rejected, to fight not so much with PETs as with drinks served abundantly in Poland. And it was not those mineral water drinks or even a variety of certified orange drinks or some, only with counterfeits of this type, which destroyed the diet of young people especially, which influenced its metabolic protection, and above all caused expenses, to the delight of huge Polish and foreign companies. Unfortunately, the liberal lobby then began a general attack, that here are the Poles dictating what to drink. And that was summer. The money was meant for medicine, for treatment. I've lost this battle, even though the whole world has fought in victory. E.g. In the liberal United States, an additional $3.5 was paid for dilithium PETs. The problem hasn't been solved. In many countries, yes. In Germany, in a simple way, it didn't fit into the technical way that, so to speak, the nation that invented the Volkswagen and some other... x-rays in luxury markets in front of my eyes were packing these PET bags into hideous bags. So I don't know if the system has been corrected. These PETs are mass... They're light, but they weigh more than those bags. PETs cause extra costs that Senator Rotnicka has already mentioned, because you need even extra containers... I don't know exactly, but I've heard that PETs today account for 10% of the waste. It's good for the companies that collect them. I don't know what recycling is like. Although near my town, in a nearby and small town called Toruń, a man has made a career of it. And that's very good, because he's processing these PETs. PETs have one more flaw because they're triggering... It's about these unfortunate drinks, these pseudosofts and others, which I am probably the only opponent in Poland. But PETs also have an advantage. They can be processed. Unfortunately, Engineer Rulewski did not solve this, because he still has to fight PiS, which destroys Poland... Since PETs can be successfully used for the production of film, which is placed in flood shafts. There color is not important, even quality is not particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, PETs involve a lot of spending in Polish families' budgets, which is what interests me most. And I appeal to the Minister to say whether he is going to give war to these PETs, read: pseudonappies, and whether we can count on Poland to litter, cleanse from this Libertine growth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u170	Senator Pup's voice is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I was hoping that when we discuss a matter as important and important as environmental protection in the context of the use of foil packaging, it would be a subject, I would say, very simple and very easy. Taking care of the environment, protecting our environment, nature, removing this unpleasant view... As the Minister put it, commercials hang in trees instead of leaves, especially in the spring or late autumn. I was hoping for some understanding of the situation connected with the fact that we are introducing a directive of the European Union, whose introduction was also intended by the previous government of the government, I will remind you, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. I was hoping that this discussion would focus on the quick and efficient adoption of this law just because of environmental needs. I remind you that Senator Rotnicka mentioned this from this podium. That we have adopted a law on municipal waste charges for municipal waste. The debate started here, especially the opposition senators, that we are introducing a very heavy burden. In the form of 20 gr per bag, a commercial. After all, 10 or 20 gr are already paid for this, different shops pay for these bags. It has been said here that these burdens will be very high and will be a tax for the citizen. Let me remind you that the citizen has a choice. Government, parliament gives citizens a choice: if you want to litter the environment, act on it adversely, then you can buy such a bag 20 gr for it And if you don't want to, have a re-use bag with you and you won't pay those 20 gr. It's your choice. We make a citizen free because we give him a choice, a choice to make. Before the municipal fees came up, I paid 8 zlotys a month from my household. A car would come and pick up my waste. I was happy about that. Now, after the law on municipal waste collection enters into force, I pay about 30 PLN and also do not complain that I pay 30 PLN. It wasn't said at the time that it would be some kind of environmental tax. Now it's said that the price of this purse is supposed to be some big tax, a huge burden on the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not create tragedy, let's not create confusion. It seems to me that, since we live together in the same environment in our homeland, we should make sure that this environment is clean to be cared for. I think the citizens understand that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u172	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Mamytkow has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes and that the Senators Rotnicka and Stanisławek have submitted legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the room: Senator Ryszka gave a speech, and Mammy's motion...]] The other way around? Did he file a motion? Yeah, with that amendment. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? There you go, Minister... [[Has Mr Mammoth made an amendment?]] [[I put it together.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, may I ask?]] Yes? [[We do not want to be surprised, and we do not know what amendments you have made to Mammoths and what amendments you have made to Senator Ryszka. Because it's us...]] [[You'll find out at the committee meeting.]] [[Senator Richard's speech...]] [[And why shouldn't everyone find out? What is this, some kind of secret thing?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Thank you. To acknowledge you, Mr. Marshal, or...]] Excuse me, I've closed the discussion. Now is the time to speak to the Minister. The case will go back to the committee and be discussed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u173	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much for this discussion on environmental concerns, but also the necessity, mainly the need to implement and implement European law. I would like to say that the role of Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment is to present the position of the government, and that I have the honour to do as to the design, shape of the bill and let it be my reference to most of the amendments that have emerged. I am sure that the discussion at the committee meeting will deliver the right results in terms of the effectiveness of this project. I just want to say one more thing. There's an accusation here that there's maximum stakes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that it is in connection with the law on order and cleanliness in the municipality that none other than the Constitutional Tribunal has obliged those who take such legislative action to prepare laws to introduce a maximum fee. It didn't come from our desire to point out the highest possible fees. This is what is required by the Constitutional Court, and at the same time it is some point of reference resulting from the analyses we have carried out. As we said, as it was said, I'll do it again. In the regulation, we will propose this amount, but the regulation adopted is a regulation that we can say is in some way definitive and effective. With regard to what appeared here, and those voices that concern the introduction, I understand, of solutions that will reduce the number of PET packages, it goes beyond this regulation. But because during our deliberations and debates in the Senate, there were articles that, as a rule, put pressure on us to... or even say that the government put bail... It seems to me that bail is a mechanism that would be worth introducing in terms of waste which is widely understood as a safeguard against those who carry tirami waste that they should not carry. But when it comes to this bail, different countries use it in different ways, and they use different models. The Government of the Republic of Poland, Minister of the Environment, cannot act under the influence of press articles in one of the newspapers or statements of one of the persons who represent the interests of certain groups. The Minister of the Environment must be guided by in-depth analysis, cross-cutting of data, so as to work as best as possible for citizens. And in this case too, an analysis is being prepared as to how to use which tools, so that the number of packages that are, simply decreases, so that they are better managed. We will look for the best solutions in other countries, but we will also adapt this model to Polish conditions, to the development of the Polish economy. Because, as we say in the negotiations on the waste package, we want to be a leader in the circular economy, because we believe that this is part of sustainable development and responsible development. But we want all these commitments that we have on the European side to be real and possible, because only then will they be effective. It is not about adopting some unrealistic goals and then facing the consequences of irresponsible decisions. Thank you so much for the senator's voice. Of course, concern for health is very important and the consumer should be informed of the dangers of eating food on the basis of GMOs or other food... But I say it can't be that we make decisions... There was an amendment or that voice on the committee, under the influence... And this system amendment, let us remember that we are talking about a system that we have in Poland. As far as African countries are concerned, Kenya has put this solution under prison sentence. Let's see that some countries even use such drastic elements... We are in the European Union, we have obligations arising from our presence in the Union, and we want to do what is best, to take initiatives on these issues, but always with concern for the citizen, for common sense, for what is really effective and what is just a vision that does not always work. Thank you again for all the votes. I think that the committee meeting will be the best place for us to be able to further clarify and clarify the elements that have emerged here. Thank you very much for this debate, Mr Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u174	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the law The text of the Act is contained in print No 583, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 583 A and 583 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u175	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! I am very pleased to be able to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, which took place on 20 September, a report on the Law amending the Law on the Code of Offences. The bill is the President's initiative. Inspired was the case of a citizen who applied to the Legal Assistance Intervention Office asking if there could be consequences for those who unduly call 112. The purpose of the bill submitted to the Senate on the amendment of the law is to introduce an amendment to the code of offences by amending the article. 66 in Chapter IX of the Act, i.e. in a group of offences against state, local and social institutions. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 66 in its current form laid down the responsibility of the perpetrator who triggered the false alarm. The essence of this act is to mislead an institution or a public body. The perpetrator presents false information to trigger unnecessary action. Resolutiond by the Sejm on the amendment of the article. 66 consists in dividing §1 into 2 points and adding in item 2 a new criminal offence. It will be punishable by deliberate blocking, without a legitimate reason, of a telephone emergency number, which will make it difficult for the emergency call centre to function properly. The new provision provides for criminal sanctions in the form of imprisonment, restrictions on freedom or fines of up to PLN 1 000 500. The need for a new regulation stems from the fact that blocking emergency numbers has been an important problem for years. It is estimated that in Poland, as in the whole of the European Union, on average 50% of applications are unfounded. In Poland e.g. In 2016 for 19 million 482 000 287 incoming applications as many as 9 million 84 000 595 were false, malicious or unfounded, as reported by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The organisation of the emergency notification system is governed by the Act of 22 November 2013 on the emergency notification system. The committee was attended by Minister Andrzej Dera of the President's Office, Minister Marcin Warchoł of the Ministry of Justice and a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Maria Skorzynska. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections of a legislative nature. The Sejm passed the bill on 15 September. 431 Members were in favour, 1 was against, 3 abstained. Following a discussion at a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the committee finally requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u176	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission, which, a few days ago, had examined the bill presented. Let me allow for some limitation and failure to provide the reasons already presented by the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions by the senator. I shall confine myself only to discussing the proceedings and voting of the committee. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections to the project. The discussion was quite turbulent. It was a two-hour discussion. The President's representative, Minister Dera, answered a number of senators' questions. Two amendments were tabled, as well as a proposal to adopt a law without amendments, which was supported by the High Commission. The Legislative Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u178	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to both senators. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. There you go. Which of the senators of the rapporteurs do you have a question for? [[Maybe both, because I wasn't at the committee meeting.]] Gentlemen, come in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u179	I would like to talk about one thing: making it difficult for emergency call centers to function properly and punish them with the penalty of imprisonment, restrictions on freedom, fines of up to PLN 1 000 500. The change in the code of offenses is actually very short. As the rapporteur said, it concerns only point 2 in Article. 66 §1. This is actually one sentence. But I'd like to know what kind of alarm number this record refers to. It's about punishment for deliberately blocking a number. Are we talking 112 here, or are we talking about other emergency numbers?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u180	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u181	Mr. Senator, as far as your question is concerned, this concerns emergency number 112. [[Just?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u182	I think the second senator's answer is redundant. Are there any further questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? No. I would like to thank both rapporteurs. The bill was introduced by the President of the Republic of Poland. Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the President's Office, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: No, thank you.]] You're resigning. Thank you very much. Would a government representative, Minister Piebiak, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Everything was said at the committee meeting.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to the representative of the government and to the representative of the President in connection with this item on the agenda. Senator Pociej came forward with a question. Which minister do you have a question for? [[To see Minister Piebiak.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u183	Minister! During the discussions at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, there was a rather serious gap between the President's representative and the Ministry's representative. Certain provisions of this law were described by the Minister representing the Ministry of Justice as inconspicuous, incompatible with a certain legislative technique. Could the Minister bring the House closer to what they are and where do these reservations come from, which were expressed during the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u184	You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Mr. Marshal, can I just...]] Maybe you're on the spot. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Indeed, there were some reservations about the precision of some of the concepts included in the President's draft. In particular, the idea of blocking was that it may not be sharp enough. But in the end... Firstly, there is no official government position, and secondly, we have accepted the explanations made by Minister Dera and we do not uphold these reservations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u186	Are there any further questions for the ladies and gentlemen of the senators? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Dera, I'm asking you this question. At the committee meeting, among others. I have expressed some concerns about the effectiveness of the application of this law, because as for the purposes, ideas and the need to introduce it, there is nothing to argue about. I don't think anyone in this room is in a position to question the purpose and necessity of this bill. It's two lines. The first issue concerns the conditions that must be met in order to punish a person who behaves reprehensibly. One of those reasons It's a condition, I'd say, functional. I don't know what her formal name is. The point is that a person will do something. And the second point relates to the outcome, namely that person must make the proper functioning of the emergency call centre difficult by doing so. I say that it will be difficult to prove through the prosecutor, generally public, that the person in question has hindered the operation of the centre. Because in the case of centers... the system is built so that it is not easy to block the possibility of calling these centers. That's one thing. The second point concerns some incompleteness. We're talking 112 here, but the emergency numbers, according to the bill and the regulation, are probably 14. Although we will have a bill in the case of 112 and here it will not be possible to block, but in the case of any other number, one that they know, for example. Older people know that to the police it's 997, to the emergency room it's 999... well, these numbers, I understand, this bill doesn't protect. Unless it's different. And that's why I have a question for the Minister. Don't you have any concerns about narrowing this law down to 112? Are the other numbers connected to the emergency call centers? Because this is a very important issue. It's gotta be blocked here... This is about the emergency call center, not the police station. Finally, the final question: will this law be effective because of the need to prove that the person in question has had some effect?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u188	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll begin my speech with the senator's questions, from a little correction. The emergency call centre shall include the following emergency numbers: 112 s, as we know, is the general number; 984s, that's the number for WOPR; 985s, that's the emergency number for GOPR; 986s, that's the City Guard. And then there's this classic alarm number, which is 997, 998 and 999. I don't think I have to explain here. Our generation remembers exactly whose phone numbers they are. Everyone calls this number and calls the emergency call center, which is very important, automatically. And now the grounds for misdemeanor. Well, these conditions, as the senator rightly pointed out, are 2. First of all, it's about the situation of blocking the alarm number. Blocking, as we explained at the committee meeting, is a continuous failure. Most of the time, it's that someone... and that's the practice, unfortunately. Like the senator said, about 6.5 million phone calls had a mark of blocking the phone number. Of course, this is done with varying intensity, but the essence is that someone is calling the emergency call center and when the on-call picks up the phone or pushes the button... As we agreed, it depends on how the unit is equipped, but most often it is headphones. So, in short, the dispatcher of this emergency call center is reporting, and the other person is reporting. The one who's on the phone hangs up or hangs up. In short, it does not continue this connection and repeats it persistently. In the explanatory memorandum, you read about extreme cases where the number of calls was even several thousand, and several hundred calls were a daily standard. And that's the kind of thing that makes it harder for people to connect. Of course, there are different centers, which we have already explained. The centers in big cities have a lot of positions, so there's no big problem there. The problem concerns small towns, where there are few jobs. Sometimes there's one on duty and you just call him. This is due to the number of applications in these places. And the system is so designed that if someone calls that way, it can't be blocked. The problem is that it automatically redirects itself to the nearest free number 112, to another county. And that's where the problems start, because, for example, establishing a place and other things is beginning to be a problem, and more importantly, And that's what you need to know, too. This switch occurs after 60 seconds. It takes 60 and 90 seconds, and we all know that in the case of 112, it's time to decide whether or not someone will be rescued. And the second condition is obstruction. And this is where I want to reassure you, because the authority that's going to report this to law enforcement is the emergency call center itself. It's gonna determine if this kind of... I'll even tell you why it's gonna look like this. The institution authorised to do so will only be the emergency call centre, as it must itself determine whether the number of these unjustified calls, attempts to connect and hang up, will disorganize the work of the centre. In the case of minor cases, such requests will be addressed. And let me tell you that the practice so far was that the perpetrators were directed to law enforcement, only that the problem was that the same act was convicted of various paragraphs, including the criminal code. Well, then we had to prove that someone couldn't get through and that his life was compromised. It was also tried to draw this up under the appropriate article of the Code of Offences, looking for such solutions, but to end this kind of practice. The paramedics themselves reported at a meeting with the president in spring this year that this is a very serious problem, and they asked me to do something about it. However, their workload is very high. Every decision they make is very important because it can save lives, and all these conversations are recorded. Today, this system is so designed that anyone who calls the emergency number is identified, so the dispatcher knows exactly who he's talking to. That's what it takes, for example, to send an ambulance, a fire department, or other servants. There's a name, there's a name, there's a location. This is very important because it is often the case that someone calls from a portable camera and the nearest relay station is given. And at this point, this on-call guy already knows where the caller is. If someone calls such an emergency number and does so in a cumbersome way that makes it difficult for the emergency call centre to function, the dispatcher knows exactly who owns the phone number and where it's calling from. And as for the question of finding the perpetrator, it has to be determined by law enforcement authorities, because the owner and the perpetrator may be someone completely different. Well, they're gonna have to set up law enforcement. And that's how you press charges. Further proceedings have already taken place before a court which determines whether or not there has been an offence. That's the kind of proof I'm saying by calming the senator down. It will not be difficult, because it will all prove the representatives of the emergency call center. Believe me, this is going to be very objective. I assure you that someone who calls twice or three times there will not be punished because it will be difficult to prove that this has made work difficult in some way. It often happens that we're kind of on the phone line and we're trying to reach you, but we're breaking up. That's why it's hard to punish someone. I'm sure with the record we're proposing here... It's going to be a very important record. The point is to close a certain educational issue, which is very important in the case of 112. There are many beautiful examples here. It's practically not a week since we've heard in the media that some girl or boy saved, I don't know, mom or grandma, because he could call 112. In fact, last week was such a coincidence that a 10-year-old girl instructed by the dispatcher at the emergency call center was saving the mother who was giving birth. There are many such examples. There's a beautiful program in Polsat for the rescue of 112, showing and informing how it all looks like. In order to close the educational agenda, we need to make it clear that the system of offences is speaking today: if you are reporting an incident that has not occurred, you are guilty of a crime, but if you are obstructing someone's access to help. And such cases, as the senator said here, are counted in millions. You're actually okay. In order to close this case, it must be stated that those who inform the emergency call centre about events that did not happen, as well as those who are making fun of it... It's hard to even tell why they're doing this, why they're calling. We're not here to make this clear about people who are mentally ill because a person who is mentally ill doesn't have criminal responsibility. In order to be clear, once again, I stress that we are not talking about this type of case. We're talking about people who play consciously, intentionally, for reasons that are hard to imagine. When we accept this bill, any educator at school will be able to say among the children: number 112 saves lives and you must not call there without need, you must not play by calling this number, and also falsely inform about events that did not happen. It'll close the whole thing down. In our opinion, in the opinion of the President, these really bad statistics should decrease, because what else... I'll say one word. Every year, the problem is getting worse. It's not like there was a one-time dump of that kind of phone. When you look at the statistics in recent years, you can see that every year there's about a few percent or a fraction of the percentage more. So the problem is getting worse. He's not getting smaller, he's getting bigger. Therefore, on the one hand, there is a need for a clear directive in the code of offences that says that it must not be done, and on the other hand, very specific measures are needed, also taken by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, indicating that number 112 saves lives and does not call there without need, only when something is actually happening. There might even be a subjective feeling, because the caller doesn't need to know. if you have a disease or a symptom. If he thinks something dangerous is going on, although objectively it won't be true... No one will be punished then, of course, because there were subjective reasons to call this number and ask for help. But people who call, and so on. They're ordering pizza or a cab, I'm sure they'll treat each other differently. It is a draft law very short, very simple and very much needed today in the Polish emergency notification system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u190	The question is Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! I'd like to be more specific. During the committee's work, the senators were informed that number 112 was the only number that would be protected. We are expanding legal protection here, and therefore proposals have been made to extend this protection to all the numbers in the emergency notification system. And now I have a question. Are these numbers in the notification centre identical to the emergency call system numbers? And now the second question. If the citizens are calling 911, is the call received by an emergency caller or a police officer?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u192	Just so there's no doubt about it... That's what the bill says. This is where the emergency numbers are exchanged, which are part of the emergency call centre. And we have an alternative. We can either call 112, which is where... Because not everywhere in Poland such centres exist, so that the matter is clear. In those places where they exist, when they call the emergency call number, the emergency call center picks up the phone, asks questions and steers forward. If someone says he's a witness, I don't know, a car accident, then the duty officer immediately informs the fire department and the police; you don't have to call several times. That was the idea. The officer's calling the fire department because he needs to secure the police that need to be secured, and the ambulance he needs to come if he finds out there's someone hurt. That's how this system works. And if the center is gone, then the alarm numbers of the guards, the police, etc. continue to function. There's an I.D. in this case, too, but then the manager will be... I mean, there's a recipe here that says that the emergency call center... He will only deal with situations where the number 112 is currently selected and there is a functioning emergency call center. This record, which we have presented here, no longer applies directly to the police, the guards and the ambulances where there is no centre. But the essence of this system is that the emergency call center is to be all over Poland. That is the essence of these changes. I don't know... There is no representative of the MSWiA here, and he could say in what percentage of powiats all over Poland operate these centers today, because I do not have this information. But the vast majority of counties already have emergency call centers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u193	The question you're asking is the Marshal of the Lady below. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u194	Thank you very much. I just want to ask you something, Minister, 'cause I don't know if I got it right, even though you explained it. Let's say someone's calling 112 in good faith, for example. He saw a man lying down on the street, and he thinks something happened to him, and then he turns out he's drunk. I take it he's not gonna be responsible because he just did his civic duty, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u195	That's right, Senator. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podzi: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u196	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was a little worried about your response, because we already talked about it at the committee meeting, and now we're starting to get back to the same topic. Number 112, clear. Emergency call center, three or four of your emergency numbers, 997, 998, 999 and a few more, but not all of them, because there are 14 numbers... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Right. I'm talking about the ones in the system. That's what the bill says...]] Yeah, that's right. They're in the bill, they're in the system, but they're actually gonna be connected for a while not to the center, but to the police, the emergency room dispatcher, the fire department. So the numbers connected to the center will be protected by this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes.]] See that these unconnected to the center will not be protected. Why? Well, calling these numbers doesn't lock down the center because we don't call downtown. Some of the numbers are still pretty specific, but... well, maybe just once limit a guy who behaves that way? This is very important. I agree with the Minister here. It goes on for example. about special ambulances for children being kidnapped, etc., which are definitely not connected to the center for now, will be connected in the last order. Those numbers aren't downtown yet, and they won't be around for long. And they probably won't be protected for a long time. And that's what we're talking about, to shut down the mall's lockdown. Then all we have is a binding recipe... It's gonna be easy to prove, 'cause if a man called a hundred times, it means he wasn't after some kind of accident, he was just trying to have fun. Please note that then we protect all the alarm numbers, all of them, all of them, those 14 numbers, in any case, if they are abused. And so we're going to have to prove the effect in a way. Maybe not so much... yeah, actually the result of blocking the number. And in addition, at least for now, in the present state, not all of these numbers will be protected. That's what we meant. Minister, is it clear why we want to make this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u198	Of course, Mr. Senator. The essence of this record is that... we're talking about a certain social effect that already exists. It was the emergency call centers that alerted and also informed the President that this was a serious problem for them. Because if you look statistically, you can see that 1/3 of all connections are blocking connections. I'm saying statistically. Because, of course, it looks different in different places. If someone calls a thousand times, the place is blocked at this point. But the essence was to react to it, not to do anything like that. And the essence of the changes that we proposed nice a few years ago was the introduction of a universal emergency number across Europe. So that Poles who are in France or French who are in Poland, when something happens, can call this number 112, knowing that they are calling an emergency number. And that's the essence. And since you said it was theoretically possible to do so that any emergency number... That's the question now. These emergency numbers are, contrary to appearances, a lot. And question one... someone's gonna write down that some number is an emergency number, but there's no legal basis, no legislative basis, that number isn't mentioned anywhere. Alarm numbers can have different institutions, different associations, and they can do it quite noblely, right? But we're talking about launching state institutions that serve citizens to save lives. And according to the article. 11... The Act on the Emergency Notification System states that emergency notification centres form a single system for handling notifications, which includes As if from the Act 112, 997, 998, 999. And those numbers I was just talking about can also be handled. So, where number 112 is created, the vending machine supports all those police emergency numbers, guards, and ambulances. Because that's the essence of entering this number. I therefore believe that it is no longer necessary to consider individual places in Poland, where this system has not yet been introduced. Because I can assure you Because we, as Poland, are obliged to introduce this emergency number 112, that if there are emergency call centers in all counties today, they will certainly be everywhere in the near future. And then we won't talk about any other emergency numbers at all. We have to try to establish one information in society, which slowly reaches many people: the emergency number So you don't remember a few of them, there's 112. And this will give us the full guarantee that any of us, being abroad or in Poland, being a citizen of Poland or being a foreigner, will actually get help by calling 112. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the President's representative. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Well, I am.]] Oh, that's already been done. No further questions? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Mr. Marshal, I do not know if there are any further questions.]] Are there any more questions? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: There is no.]] No more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 14.34. That's how I look at time... I'm taking the floor because I didn't participate... I am a member of the committee that has examined this bill, but during these statements I have heard, many untrue sentences have been uttered. After these speeches, after these questions, I am convinced that none of you know what you will vote for, absolutely. Only Senator Czerwiński knows what's going on, but he didn't get an answer to his questions about how it works. It just so happened that I was actively involved in the creation of this system, which is why it's much easier for me, and I can explain it all in a few words. On 9 February 2012, the first emergency notification centre was established, even before the Act on the emergency notification system entered into force. And in Poland there were established voivodship emergency call centers. There are them, Minister, excuse me, 17, because there is additional in Radom, in the Mazowieckie voivodeship there is an additional center of saying rescue. Maybe they'll still... I don't know what it looks like when it comes to these voivodships, where the Marshal's seat and the voivodeship are located separately. It's here, it's working. Those centers were created. I'll tell you how they work. The problem is, of course, that a lot of people are calling and these phones are unreasonable. Bottom line, I'm gonna be in favour of this bill that the President has filed, and rightly so, but I'm gonna explain that this only applies to number 112, not the other numbers. And why, I'll tell you right now. Just because it's not justified, we know. It doesn't change, it's more or less the same. In general, it looks like the Minister said that 50% of phone calls are unreasonable, twenty-seven percent are phones that hang up before picking up, so in total about 25 and 30% are phones that are legitimate. Emergency notification centres employ operators, not dispatchers, but dispatchers. There are operators in the emergency call centers. In the emergency notification centre in Poland the average waiting time is no longer than 10 seconds. I don't know what it looks like right now. So no more than 10 seconds we're waiting for the call. I can tell you that on average, the emergency call center is affected every 20 seconds. Yes? Those operators that work there... These conversations are recorded, as you often hear on TV and what the Minister said. They're all recorded. And, of course, you have to accept the application accordingly. The centers aren't quite... The target model isn't fully operational yet. We're all talking about 112, and we need to talk a lot about what this number is, what it's for, and so on. You have to educate, and that's the job. All of us. 112 is a European number and that is why we want to remember it. If we don't remember any other numbers, we'll call 911. For now, there are other emergency numbers in Poland, especially 997, 998 and 999. They're functioning, they're being picked up. The target will be that these numbers will be redirected to 112 in the future. The point is, we can use these numbers, but we'll be calling 112. It's not like that yet. Now in emergency call centers they are integrated, so sometimes there is such a situation that e.g. In addition to 112 operators, the medical rescue system dispatchers are 999 Poznań case. There are police officers or fire marshals, or they're gone. There could be a center that only picks up 112. The aim is to ensure that these centres function in a computerized system, where they are called. formats. The point is, if I call 112, it'll be identified, like the Minister said, who's calling from, where he's calling from. That's why it's a change to make it easier, even if someone forgets to tell us where they are, this place is identified. If someone calls 112, they're identified. And now it's a matter of admission depending on what service we're calling. There may be a road accident, there may be a need for fire department, police and in this IT system it is transferred to the appropriate services to take action. Therefore, where there are no integrated positions... And let me remind you that there are only 17 centers in Poland. It's not like we said here that they're different, small and bigger. There are no smaller ones, these centers are organized only in voivodship cities. And now that we're calling 112, and when we get through to a center like this, it's picking up 112. And now I'm going to quote... This amendment to the law is that Article. 66 §1 was, only covered point 1, and now is added point 2: Who intentionally, without a valid reason, blocks the telephone emergency number, obstructing the proper functioning of the emergency call centre. Mr. Czerwiński said that it is difficult to block this number because it is actually every 10 seconds or every dozen... and there are dozens of operators who are receiving calls to this phone number. Well, I'm sure it's hard to block, but the fact is that something like this is bothering you. And there's too much talk. But it is similar in Europe, and we are not unique in this respect when it comes to this call. But it's worth doing something about it. Of course, I think it would be easier to do this in the way it is being practiced at the moment, i.e. If someone calls, the police call, the police talk, and it's best if she punishes the ticket, because God forbid it's some kid... Because the code of offenses is working over the age of 16... But if somebody like that makes a phone call there and the parents have to pay for it, and so on... Therefore, it would certainly be easier to punish her only with a mandate, rather than immediately punish her as it was written. But okay, it's kind of a scarecrow, so no one calls there without need, which is a sign: you can get punished, you need to know that. You just have to talk about it so it's clear here. And that's when you're subject to that punishment. That's right! So I'm thinking I'm voting for this bill myself. Except I know what I'm voting for. Well, I will vote in favour of the fact that this law only applies to number 112. 'Cause if you call... it's written: 'Helping the proper functioning of the emergency call center.' So if you call 999, 997 or 998 and they pick it up in the fire department or the police, it's gonna be different, because it's not gonna be an emergency call center. Then it will also be obstruction, of course, but not with regard to the center. Although, by the way, as far as 112 is concerned, the calls to the emergency room and the police are about the same and are least redirected to the fire department, to the State Fire Department, it is less than 1%. All those calls to the guard are about 0.9.0.8% That's what happened in the statistics. I don't know, maybe something's changed recently. Anyway, in light of the above, if we call the emergency number and the dispatcher picks up these services, it will not be possible to punish us for this. This will be possible in the future if these numbers are background numbers, i.e. If I dial 999, I'll call 112. I'm not gonna know about this, because I'm gonna dial 999, but I'm gonna call 911. And then, of course, according to this law, this solution will work, but not today, because today it is not. I think it is also important, since we are discussing this, education, i.e. that we should all educate each other and talk about this European emergency issue as much as possible, because it really makes life easier. This number 112 was set up just so you wouldn't call me, like the Minister said: I'll call you... I'm at the county border and I'm gonna get through to one county or another, and I don't have a location, and I don't have service in foreign languages... And downtown, I've got everything. That's why we've been building an emergency call center so we can determine the location. There are two monitors... Maybe you've been downtown or you'll see how it works, what it looks like. Anyway, there's a kind of pre-arranged location, also for landlines, and we know who's calling. So this argument, which used to be used, that I here know best where in my town is the street anyway, and therefore it would be good if it were scattered... Okay, but what do you do in the event of a disaster when you have to send 20 ambulances? Now the emergency call center will do it quickly and efficiently. It used to call the district next door and say, "Listen, do you have an ambulance?" That's what happened. And I remember those people who were defending themselves so they wouldn't reform. But that was the reason for the changes that were made. It's different today. If a foreigner who does not speak Polish calls the centre, there is no problem, because there is service in many languages in the centre. And even if it's not what it's about, it's a person you can contact in a language the center doesn't support. So this is a very important undertaking. It's just that we need to know clearly what we're voting for. So we're voting not to abuse number 112, because if anyone calls number 112... He's not gonna block it, there's no way. The Minister was also talking about another county... No. Centers operate in such a way that if On the example of our Wielkopolska voivodship, Minister, someone will call the Wielkopolska voivodship... We have this storm that was recently, there are winds and so on. And we can't get through. Then these calls are automatically redirected to another emergency call center. The same thing works there, just not in our voivodship. Once, in my day, the Pomeranian Voivodeship had e.g. with Wielkopolska, and today to anyone else you can... So there's also some security to make sure that this phone call gets picked up in these situations. Once again, to recap, I'm going to say that this is actually happening very smoothly right now. The average waiting time in Poland is about 10 seconds, so it all works well. The system is not yet complete, it requires completion. So what we're saying is that these command support systems... I'm not going to further develop what the security system is all about, the police. It's just that after the information is passed on, all the services, and sometimes the police, and the fire department, and the paramedics need to leave... so that all of this is passed on in real time so that action can be taken. This target operating model is still ahead of us. We're doing this step by step, step by step, because it wasn't an easy task. It was a really difficult task and undertaking, but we did it well, it worked better and better. And since there are people blocking these numbers, they're disturbing... This isn't about someone calling again or twice, or passing on this false information, or whatever the senator said she was having doubts about, because she's gonna call, and it's not clear whether the ambulance should come for that person or not. That's not a problem. The problem is, there are people who call all the time because they don't have anything to do tonight. They sit by the phone and call downtown 50 times until that operator. I'm talking about the operator, because there are operators in the centers, and not the dispatchers, they're not gonna be able to make it on call and pick up 50 and 60 times, and then it turns out that one of these calls was legitimate. She will be recorded and then there will be a big problem that the operator has not taken action. Therefore, I'm very much in favour of this... Maybe it's too drastic, because I would go to the police first to punish the mandate, but it's a scarecrow, big. I think that such cases of punishment within a year will be counted on the fingers of one hand, because the people who will call there will already realize that they cannot call, and that these cases will not be much, but maybe this will result in these unreasonable, unfounded conversations with us much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u201	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm following Senator Flork's speech, who, as a former voivode, has shown us a great deal of knowledge, bringing us into what's already working, and into what's going to work. I am also following questions that expressed doubts asked by Senator Czerwiński, Minister Dera. Both of you, I assure you, Mr Florek, that there was a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject. Well, Senator Mikołajczyk was in a hurry, which is understandable, and he didn't give the timbre this discussion, but it was at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions that the discussion was held. on the formulation of the proper, precise and full of this legitimate presidential initiative. There was a discussion, Senator Florek. In fact, it has led to I'll talk about it in a minute. To be submitted, among others. by me, the corrections, but also signaled by Marshal Sewerinski. This discussion began with the fact that some senators believed that the wording that was in the middle of the text In fact, it weakens the right presidential initiative by forcing the court to conduct this procedure to prove that it was a obstruction of the proper functioning. Well, the question is, if anyone, let's assume, will call 10 times, but at that time there will be no serious situations... That won't make it harder for this center to function properly. I'm not talking about the fact that this could affect the amount of the penalty, which is to say that it would cause the absence of that penalty, because since this act didn't make it difficult to function, it was a small harm to the act... Senator Florek was talking about punishing such behavior with fines. Some senators thought it was, let's say, a lost cause, since it's the court's order to prove it. The second word about which... Here's the word that blocks it. Well, if he's blocking, that means he's completely preventing it. I'm not saying it's a little out of Polish. It's blocking the phone number. I think it's rather blocking the connection. That's how it would be in Polish. It's not a phone number and it's not a phone number. In the common language it is said that I made a phone call, meaning making a call. Block your phone by pressing on these forks, that's blocking your phone. But I'm already skipping those little things. The word "blocks" was not defended by a representative of the Minister of the Interior, who commanded Senator Florek even more to prove that it was impossible to block emergency phone numbers due to their number and the conditions under which these centres work. Even if there were a few individuals It's hard to call these people otherwise, it's tried to block it, it's these connections that will be transferred to other centers. So that the word blocks is not adequate because you cannot block this number. And it's very good that it is. There was also talk of education. I'm sorry, the coalition, support the President, and make this record effective and that all those who interfere with the work of these centers have no chance, as I call it, to save them. It could be a deliberate extension of the case, proving that it didn't make it difficult to function, etc. I'm proposing three kinds of amendments, optional, of course. The first option of 3 senators, as voted out, was in favour of this. The point is to leave this wretched phrase here blocking, but to delete words that make it unnecessary to function properly. Another option says that the word "blocks" is that the minister of administration claims that this blockage is impossible. - replace with the word "distortion." But what I like most is, what is understandable, an amendment in which I refer to this first section of the provision in which the general field of contacts with security, public policy or health units is described. I take this as a special case, a novelty that results from the universal availability of a phone and which was never there. That old record... At that time not everyone had phones, not everyone could, even in an unidentified way, use the network et cetera. I'm very shorthanded. Referring to this statement from the first passage, I suggest a record: in particular, it interferes with calls to telephone emergency numbers. And here I'm going to refer to the questions that both gentlemen, sort of on one line, were asking. Is this about one call downtown, one emergency call... the name of this center may change, so I wouldn't want to be here... The thing is, it's not that someone's calling downtown, it's that they're calling an emergency number. He has no idea where this center is. The important thing is that it's an emergency phone, and it's not just one phone call. I agree with that. Just a few phone calls. Today we are talking about four numbers, including 112, but there may be another emergency number. My dream was, for example. that there should be a telephone number to call when there is a massive hacking attack on the Internet in Poland, or what happened during the storm, some number to call an anti-crisis notification, which, as I heard from the senator, maybe will be developed. So let's not lock ourselves in this formula, that it has to be the center that it is, and that it has to have an extremely salvageable character... It could be of a different character... Hence this more general formula, in which everything fits, in particular disrupts calls to telephone emergency numbers. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u203	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. There are adjustments. Good. Does a representative of the Government or the President wish to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act The text of the Act is contained in print No. 595, and the report of the Commission In print No 595 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased and honoured to present the report of the Environment Committee, which took place on 21 September. The purpose of the Act on the amendment of the Environmental Law and certain other laws passed to the Senate is to transfer to the Polish legal order certain provisions of Directive 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, hereinafter referred to as the MCP Directive. This directive concerns the so-called. medium combustion sources, i.e. sources with a rated thermal input of not less than 1 MW and less than 50 MW. The MCP Directive requires medium-sized sources to be covered by a licence or registration system, emission limit values and emission monitoring obligations, as well as to keep a register of those sources. The register should contain the information listed in Annex I to the MCP Directive and should be publicly available. Dear Senate, the Sejm adopted an opinion at its forty-seventh meeting on 15 September 2017 on the basis of a government submission; Parliamentary printing No 1765. At the meeting of the Environment Committee, the amendments were unanimously voted in favour of the adoption of the Environmental Law. I ask the Senate to accept the proposed amendments... to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government... But the Minister isn't here. Therefore, I'm announcing a 20-minute break. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 00 to 15 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. We're back to the 19th. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was honoured to present the Act amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 15 September 2017 and examined by the Senate Environmental Commission on 21 September 2017. This Act is a transposition act aimed at transferring to Polish law certain provisions of Directive 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. I would like to point out that the deadline for transposition is set in the Directive as at 19 December 2017. This is an important directive with a view to achieving our objectives. The Senator rapporteur has fully presented the assumptions and scope of this regulation, which is why I will stop there. Thank you very much for presenting this project. I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u207	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I have a question for the Minister. What kind of charge does the Minister provide for the use of these plastic bags? [[That's not the bill.]] That's not the bill, is it? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: No, no, Mr. Marshal. This one concerns, as I said, air.]] I'm sorry. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: Yes, but...]] Thank you. No questions... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: But I don't predict... If the marshal wants, I can answer...]] No, no. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: No?]] Thank you very much. So there are no questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 16 of the agenda: the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. The text of the Act is contained in print No 588 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 588 A and 588 B. Is there a minister in the courtroom? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I'm declaring a recess. 15 minutes. [[Is this even gonna be the downtown bill?]] Yeah, we're at that point right now. [[But maybe it won't be at all?]] [[Voice from the room: What if it doesn't?]] Time out... [[Voice from the room: Up to fifteen.]] ...until 3:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 26 to 15 minutes 45]] I'm reopening the session. Since the minister isn't here, we're waiting for the minister, I'm running another 15 minutes' break. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 45 to 16 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u208	I'm reopening the session. We begin to consider item 16 of the agenda: the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. The text of the Act is contained in print No 588 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 588 A and 588 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the National Freedom Institute Act The Center for Civil Society Development. The Commission has discussed this legislation very closely. He was present at the committee meeting, Minister Lipiński, who explained to the committee members. There were also invited representatives of non-governmental organisations who had the opportunity to express their views on the law. The purpose of this Act is to improve the coordination of state policies in support of civil society development and to prepare organisational arrangements for the implementation of government programmes in this field. So it is one of the laws that is to build civil society in a crucial way, because the development of human resources, organizational development is what can ensure the welfare of the Polish state. With regard to the specific arrangements which this legislation brings, it should be said that under this act a Committee on Public Use will be set up, headed by the chairman of the Committee. The Committee will coordinate and monitor the cooperation of government administrations with the non-governmental sector and other organised forms of civil society, prepare and consult civil society development programmes with civil society organisations and monitor their implementation and draft legislation on civil society development. These functions are to some extent currently carried out by the minister responsible for social security, but there have been allegations that the Ministry, as if it were too much concerned with social organisations, the social sphere, and to a lesser extent draws attention to the development of civil and social organisations which deal with the wider sphere of non-governmental organisations. In view of its composition, this committee will have a much broader view of this issue, as the committee will include a chairman, who will be a member of the Council of Ministers, a vice-president in the rank of Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, and secretaries or Undersecretaries of State representing ministers in the various ministries. The National Freedom Institute itself will operate under this Act and its tasks will be to support the involvement of citizens, NGOs and other organised forms of civil society. It will support civic control over the functioning of public institutions and public trust institutions, support grassroots civic activity, sustain and disseminate culture and national and local traditions. It will promote respect for and protection of human rights and civil rights, address issues related to civic education and the formation of citizenship, and carry out environmental and animal rights promotion tasks where NGOs in this area They're working. The bodies of the National Institute will be the Director of the National Institute and the Council, which will be of an advisory nature and will support the Director. It should be noted that the criteria for assessing the substance of applications submitted in open competitions also appear in this Act. This is a very important novel, because for the first time we are dealing with such a situation that the legislator gives the criteria a substantive assessment of the projects of NGOs the rank of statutory registration. It's been different around here so far. This was determined at the level of the rules of competitions, sometimes regulations. At the moment it is regulated at the level of the law. It is also worth mentioning that the public benefit council continues to function and becomes an advisory body of the Committee president. Her powers don't change. It must be said that the draft of this Act has been consulted with NGOs. As the government's representative informed us, Civil society, 23 consultation conferences have been organised in all regions of the country. More than 1,000 people representing several hundred NGOs took part. There were also comments. These comments have been partially implemented within the framework of this act. The committee was attended by representatives of a dozen non-governmental organisations. The representatives of all these organisations spoke, drawing attention to the existing, in their view, certain disadvantages and shortcomings of this act. There were also representatives of non-governmental organisations who said that the solutions that the project brings are the solutions expected and welcome by the non-governmental community. In particular, these are solutions for the institutional development of non-governmental organisations. So far, most of the competitions that have been organised, whether under the Civil Initiative Fund or under other projects, have been linked to funds that have been allocated to specific programmes. The representatives of NGOs complained that they were unable to function outside the programmes, unable to come to delegations, unable to educate, unable to pay their accountants in the organisation. And here, as part of this legal act, as part of the National Institute of Freedom records, there is an opportunity to run institution-building programmes for the organisation. The representatives of non-governmental organisations who took part in the meeting drew attention to this and praised this solution. Senators who participated in the discussion, among others. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Mr. Senator Libicki, Mr. Senator Augustyn and Mrs. Senator Zdrojewska paid attention to the shape of the bill and the speed of its procession. It has been noted that it is created too quickly. The Senators also highlighted the shortcomings in the consultation process. A lot of controversy was raised by the preamble to this act itself. It has been claimed that the preamble is not necessary in this type of legislation. Finally, the committee adopted this draft legislative act without amendment by a majority and recommends that the High Senate adopt it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u210	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, any action to strengthen civil society's strength would deserve support. This is a real school of sensitivity and civil engagement, this is a school of democracy. We could say that civil society is in its infancy, judging by the extent of our commitment to the involvement of citizens of other countries. But it's waking up. We see this, for example, after numerous demonstrations, where it is society under the direction of non-governmental organisations that has been gathering and encouraging public affairs recently. That's a good signal. Ladies and gentlemen, however, as an applicant, we do not accept this law as described in the explanatory memorandum, above all because the preamble, which from a legal point of view is actually, one could say, a legislative error, has unfortunately been formulated as such. Although it has already been corrected That it is of a non-discriminatory nature. Well, for example. There's no liberal tradition at all. Moreover, some records could be considered to be very dangerous by their ambiguity. Well, let's just take the demonstrations I mentioned. I would probably disagree with the Minister about whether they are pro- or anti-state, and the preamble says that only pro-state ones will be supported. Who's gonna decide that? Ladies and gentlemen, if this were about, as Senator Majer said here, that the organisations were added to the former Civil Initiative Fund for 40 million, it could be applauded. The problem is that in the article. 30 changes in the way these measures are managed. Yes, the rules of the competition are included here, but at the same time it is noted that the director of the institute can manage these funds alone and divide them without any competition. And it is not as it was explained at the committee meeting, suggesting that this concerns only the internal competence of the Institute's director. That's not true, because the legislator refers to the article there. 23, which refers cascadingly to Article. 24, and these are absolutely fundamental rules that talk about the tasks arising from the entire bill. My doubts were not answered precisely during the committee meeting. I want to tell you that this bill is in the belief of the many organizations I've been meeting with. They were mostly at a committee meeting. In fact, instead of adding influence to these organisations, it robs them of the influence that has so far had on the Civil Initiative Fund. Even though the minister had been able to have, under certain conditions and with transparency, 10% Of those 60 million, but now he can own the whole thing if he wants to. If there were not so many signals that the availability of public funds for NGOs is enormous and raises public opposition... I'll even give you an example from today. The next money transferred to the Foundation is very emotional. Some joke that this geothermal is working well, because every time money is pumped in there, everyone gets a temperature up. Maybe it is. In any case, there are many signals that under the pretence of strengthening the third sector is really trying to control it. The Senator rapporteur has said so beautifully here that it will be a council which will only have an opinional role. Come on, let's do it. She's not gonna have any real impact on any decision? It is written here that it will have an impact on some decisions, but on my question at the committee meeting, what particular decisions it will have a binding impact on, again no answer has been given, because such an impact cannot be invented, cannot be identified. Not to mention that the powers of the Council and the powers of the Council of Public Use Activities overlap. That advice stays, the new one is called. So these are very serious shortcomings, which absolutely do not allow such a law to support. Besides, we know that the new institution will employ 60 people and only a part will pass from the Public Use Department. So in fact, in this whole area, employment will increase without significant benefit. Therefore, taking into account also what is happening, how the Women's Rights Centre is treated, how the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid is treated, how you are treated by Judge Bogucka-Skowrońska, who, as a participant of the CODE assembly, was interrogated a moment ago It may be thought that the preamble and the provisions of this law will be used biasingly only in order to move this money into a comfortable direction for itself, to transfer to organisations which correspond to the powers that are vulnerable to power. Ladies and gentlemen, some hoped that if a separate position was created in the Ministry, or actually at the Council of Ministers meeting, which would coordinate activities in the field of the third sector, it would be beneficial for the organisation. But I'm sure no one expected it to be the idea from the previous system. I'll tell you honestly, it didn't turn out so good that this place was called a committee. Because indeed, this council and the entire institute will be subject to the head of the committee, and this council will have no influence, even if it is 100% there. they were representatives of the organization, not even half of them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say so. Putting forward: the committee will rise, but the public benefit will not be at all, and the functions that will be exercised by the committee president, as well as the institute director, will be so huge and so spoiled that they will actually be almost the same as those who once had the committees. They were usually referred to as "secretaries" or "first secretaries." This is how it can be and, I suspect, it will be, judging by the examples that I have mentioned here, and which could be multiplied, how some organizations are treated today, judging from honor and faith, denying credibility, and prefers others, although their credibility is at least questionable. That is why I absolutely believe, in the footsteps of the organisations with which I have consulted And an extremely large number of representatives of these organizations have arrived. That I have to represent their voice and strongly reject this law as a completely unsuccessful attempt which leads to a greater dependence of the organisation on the political centre. Organizations to be, ladies and gentlemen, non-governmental. This is an absolutely opposite step. This is why it cannot find the support of the High House, which has for years considered itself the patron of civil society. The Marshal was at the head of a team that encouraged organisations and sought step by step instruments to enable organisations to function better. We have had and as a Senate we have considerable achievements in this area. This is a whole set of laws that can be replaced, and I'll probably do it in the speech. One law, which was raised here as a special achievement of the Senate, increasing the impact of civil society on the functioning of public authorities everywhere, the petition law, was adopted with inspiration and at the request of NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, something like this band has been recreated in this term of office. And what was the consultation like there? Even worse than a field meeting. It was there that organizations went, heard information about assumptions, mostly assumptions, and often did not even have the opportunity to express themselves. And here, ladies and gentlemen, they've moved on. The team, which aims to cooperate with the organisations, did not invite these organisations to a meeting on this law at all. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is an image of how every word can warp, every institution, if you have bad intentions. I express such conviction on behalf of the minority. But I hope I can convince most of them, too. It is worth it to do this, which is important, because it is about how to support civil society, how to provide them with more resources, to return seriously, perhaps to come back here in the Senate. It's always been a good place, it was a breeding ground for good ideas for NGOs. And that's what I'm calling for. Let us reject this law and immediately, but together with the organisations, let us work on what could raise their profile, which would allow them to coordinate their actions, which would actually influence their decisions. Let's not warp it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u212	I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u213	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The minority proposal, which I am pleased to present to you, concerns the deletion of the preamble to the Act presented to us. He appeared at the moment when our motion to reject this law was rejected in its entirety. We consider it a bad bill, but if you're missing the motion to reject the whole thing, we're trying to save something. And we believe that such a rescue is the deletion of the preamble to this law. This is a very broad preamble, actually containing many internally contradictory records. If we have a preamble that basically contains everything, then the question arises as to why this preamble was written. Especially since Minister Lipiński spoke at the committee meeting all the time about the fact that this project is in principle a technical change, which concerns a small part of the measures for NGOs. The question arises: if the author of this law says that this is a technical law, then why in the technical law so extensive a preamble? We believe that this is because, in fact, this preamble is intended for the performers of this law to be a tool for directing financial transfers to specific organisations and specific environments. Surprisingly, there are many elements mentioned there, because there is also a socialist tradition, there is also a tradition of independence, there is also a patriotic tradition, there are Christian values, there is everything, but there is nothing there that is written even in our constitution, i.e. No one of the authors of this law speaks in the preamble about the fact that e.g. organisations which promote the functioning of a democratic rule of law will also be able to apply for funds on the basis of this preamble. In this connection, it seems logical that, since this is not mentioned in this preamble, organisations which, on the basis of democratic principles of the rule of law, want to promote these ideals, could not apply for such funding, because this preamble would give the decision-makers such a tool. That is why, by trying, if this law can no longer be rejected, although slightly improved, we are proposing to delete this recital. At the meeting of our committee discussing this proposal and reporting it was Marshal Borusewicz, but since Marshal Borusewicz is not unfortunately a member of our committee, I was given the privilege of making some more or less successful attempt to report what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about at the meeting of our committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u214	I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions on the National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. Minister Adam Lipiński was present at the committee meeting, former representatives of foundations and NGOs and a lobbyist representing one of the foundations. The bill is a government project. The main objective of the Act is to create the legal and institutional conditions necessary for the establishment of the National Institute of Freedom The Centre for the Development of Civil Society, which will be responsible for implementing programmes to support the development of civil society, as well as public benefit and voluntary activities. National Institute As an executive agency, it is intended to implement state policy on the development of civil society, based on the principles of openness, competitiveness and volunteering. Maybe I wouldn't be discussing the tasks that the institute will perform, because Senator Majer put it in such detail that we can probably let it go. Let me just say that a lively discussion was held on this bill at the committee meeting. The discussion lasted 2.5 hours. It was attended by representatives of the Ministry, NGOs and foundations. As regards the comments made by the Legislative Bureau during the discussion, these were technical comments. The Minister had a negative reaction to them. Two proposals were made: the first was a motion to reject the law in its entirety and the second was a proposal to adopt the law without amendments. The first vote was a motion to reject the law in its entirety. 2 senators voted in favour of the proposal, 5 against, i.e. the proposal was rejected. In the vote in favour of the bill without amendments 5 senators were in favour and 2 against. The Commission asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u216	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've filed a motion to reject the bill. Why? The draft law raises a number of doubts because of its unclear, vague rules, leads to the submission of the National Institute of Freedom of Executive Authority, because the solutions contained in the draft concerning the organisation of the National Institute of Freedom give the executive authority, in this case the Council of Ministers, broad competence to shape and control the work of this national institute, which contradicts the idea of building civil society. Because this society can't be built from the top. In fact, reverse solutions are built from the top. So this will, in my opinion, lead to a reduction in the activities of NGOs, of course, especially those who may not agree with the government in any area. And here's what I'm going to say: no matter what government it is. For if this solution continues, it continues, they will be subject to every authority. There are many charges that Senator Augustine mentioned earlier. You have to ask yourself: what is the current power in previous solutions that makes this kind of project so difficult? After all, in the last term of office, those colleagues who were here and worked in committees must remember that they were very happy to benefit from it. It's these guys, then from the opposition. From the presence of those organizations that opposed the government. They were invited, their opinion was used by the opposition and their opinion was very often taken into account. Can we therefore talk about any reduction in this field, narrowing down the field of civil society? Of course not. The question has to be asked: is it after the Constitutional Court, after the public media, after the courts, after the prosecutor's office, that the government takes up a sector that, in order to be able to work in the way to which it is predisposed, should it be independent? So, what, we're gonna subdue everything one rule, one government at a time? They're gonna be here in a minute because they're already getting ready for the harvest of the Supreme Court and the National Courthouse Council. We can already see this from the projects that have been reported. And then what? Private media, Internet, Facebook? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes, everything.]] I'd like to... Because probably the Ministry representative will come out and talk about the details in a moment, but it'll be a little bit like in this poem by Tuwim, scary township, that they see everything separately, only in detail. And here you have to look a little wider. Because you have to answer the question of where all these changes are going. They're real. What's about to happen now? . Solutions taken from Russia. In Kazakhstan, in Azerbaijan... We in the Council of Europe say practically every committee meeting, every meeting. And there are representatives of power, like the Minister, smiling at us, and they think everything is okay. Well, technically, that's okay, right? But what will you leave behind? It's ruined. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Look at Turkey. After all, there are notorious violations of all possible human rights. And where did it start? They started with the courts. And NGOs immediately followed it. I do not want you to have the impression that today I compare Turkey's situation to Poland's situation. Of course not. Of course not. [[Not yet.]] But if the steps you're taking and the ones you're gonna promote here are going to be taken, you're gonna put us in such a space that you just have to push your finger. This threatens certain values, behind which, among others. The Poles voted in the accession referendum. There is no doubt that you will start another war with the European institutions. He spoke here, not so long ago, last week one of the senators of the ruling majority, Senator Stanisławek, who appealed to his own colleagues: do not open in every... field of criticism and collision, because if you have so many open fields, how will you get along with the European Union? And let me remind you that this is the decision of the sovereign you so like to invoke. This is not an annexation. Finally, dear colleagues, apart from everything, there is this Herbertian matter of taste. Yeah, I'm gonna talk about the taste, 'cause I'm gonna talk about the constitution. I see reactions, honest and spontaneous, Minister It's hard to talk to you guys. Well, this way of doing all of this is disgusting. This disgusting taste is getting it done in an hour, throwups, etc., etc., without public consultation, without anything. It all resulted in a presidential veto to 2 laws. And I will admit to you, gentlemen, that in this respect, concerning this law, you have indeed conducted a consultation. This was, indeed, contested because the project that was consulted was different at first and then changed a lot, and there was a call from NGOs to you at the committee meeting to consult again, because this is a different project than the one that was consulted. But I'll admit that you actually talked to someone about it. However, in this matter of taste I have a very different charge against you at the moment: it is a facade empathy with great words, because this whole preamble is puffed up. I mean. You want to talk about something, you want to talk about the text of the bill. Just like when public media authorities changed: national council, patriotism. I would like to read to you something that Hemar wrote 50 years ago and that was played on Free Europe Radio at that time, because the national public media obviously did not play it in any way. Hemar, not me, so don't blame me. In the simplicity of the village, I cannot be surprised to see why the Englishman writes differently, otherwise he reads it. Ironically, though friendly, I am still playing with the rift between English spelling and pronunciation. Not a place for a lecture here, but a few difficulties count: knowledge writes, for example, and they pronounce the word "no". In the pitfalls of such a golden man, even Pericles will be lost when they write ridiculous, and they tell them to read Ridikjeles. And in such reflections of the result with gratitude you welcome the Polish text, because nevertheless in our language as you write it, you read it. You write, you read, you say the same thing, but you suddenly wonder whether it's the same or constant. Because the tongue is still changing. Recently, in many words a strange variety is noted in spelling, or pronunciation. From board to board the same thing, and you wonder wildly, because you write "Modzelewski," and you have to read "Gromyko." Time and again the consternation of the eternal spelling of delusion is raging because democracy is written, and you hear the party pipes. [[Applause]] Someone snuck into our language like a signal from Mars because you're still writing Patriotism, and you're reading an ordinary farce. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u218	I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite many statements by the authors of minority proposals supported by other senators, and given how barren the reports of the committee's positions were Read: Government position or even the PiS coalition seems to me not enough silence... During the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the senators unanimously said no to any proposals. The ones you just introduced to Senator Pociej, and those whose creators seemed to be trying to apply philosophy, tactics, a strategy of lesser evil, or a strategy of correction, as part of the Senate's mandate. It sounded unanimous. This is not only for the authors of the proposals, but also for the gathered representatives of non-governmental organisations, all or almost all. I'm looking at a representative of the rescue network here... civil television... I'm sorry I didn't mention the full name. Even he, who was so friendly to the government, did not rule out that this law was acceptable, but pointed out that it would eventually be corrected. It was the best opinion heard by Minister Lipinski, who presented the bill. It wasn't anymore. Previously Members, and even the biggest friend of the PiS, the parliamentary club Kukiz,15, who, I believe, presented the most basic and concrete position refusing to support this law... Also, the opinion of the OSCE representatives did not come to the attention of the Commission. It may not sound to individuals, but to all the principles of the European Union which require the management of public funds, including from the European Union, to be conducted on a dialogue basis, as the Constitution says. The word "not," as the Caucasian nations say, precedes the use of a dagger. It is worth considering whether this statement is too harsh. What is it about? At what point does this law arise? Senator Pociej has already said here that it arises after the public institutions, public authorities and economic institutions have passed through the so-called wind. It's a good change. It was Irma's good change in the Polish edition. Less effectively, Irma ran over or flew through justice institutions. We meet at the moment when Polish Irma tries to own civil institutions. One has already taken over and conflicts have arisen, which we have warned against. It's about public gatherings. The Public Assembly Act was an attack on civil society. Today we are standing at an even more sensitive moment. It is about the heart rate of society, about NGOs, about a nerve or a sensitive element where citizens, without any instruction, on their own responsibility, and this great responsibility, undertake to carry out actions wherever the good and the need for a second person or group of people so requires. And this is the power that decided, after all this was going well, that we need to add a steering wheel here. The decision of the PiS authorities and the government to interfere with this very sensitive element is very brave. In my speech at the committee meeting, I felt that the power of power could not be denied to improve something, to do something even better, even if it were, I would say, management. However, that was not the case. Contrary to what was preached, it was proclaimed to be further and even greater support for what is already Even if not precise, even with the wrong proportions, this proved to be a full interference in the sector, i.e. the creation of a certain steering wheel. This is against what NGOs probably expect, and against what they are capable of. It was said here that this bill was different from the previous one. From 1993, if I'm not mistaken. It was not created with the participation of these organisations, but with a limp consultation process. [[Voice from the room: In 2003 it was created.]] In 2003, the Council Thank you, Senator. It was created spontaneously, in the minister's office, contrary to various consultations which were carried out, but they were at least lame. If we don't agree... Because I do not agree to such a built law, in which the subjectivity of those organizations, which are really the noble blood of the Polish state, is taken away. These amendments, which I was driving under the Senator's mandate, were aimed at removing this evil. I've already reported them. Surprisingly in this sloppy and intertwining many conflicting or incomprehensible threads of the bill was written... or rather the hejna was played in the form of a recital. This preamble is a collection of all the threads that accompany the Polish state, although they are not always adequate for what this law is intended to serve. It was said here. Minister Lipiński assured this. That this is a merely competent, technical law that only changes certain competences and to the comfort of these organizations moves one of the institutions from a subordinate position towards the Ministry to a subordinate position towards the Prime Minister. Well, this is a procedure: practically all institutions of public life demand to be very close to the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, so there is nothing interesting about it. In other words, the public believes that Poland is not a democratic state because it demands the intervention of an individual, namely the Prime Minister or, as was the case, the first secretary. But let's just assume that power can't be denied the right to improve her relationship with... because it's not about managing these organizations. I would also remind you that this preamble is in fact a collection of such Tromtadratic slogans indicating that NGOs exist thanks to the government, thanks to various institutions, including the National Institute of Freedom. I would like to remind you that the essence of NGOs is not promised PLN 100 million, but that they were promised 60 million, but their initiative, their commitment. Different authorities count on it to be worth up to PLN 3 billion. I'm saying that all the results haven't been counted because they can't be counted. And in this matter, power puts its hand in it. Prime Minister Szydło's government wants to get these non-governmental organizations in a bunch of pebbles. It begins with the Tromtadraque preamble, in which, I must admit, there are many questionable elements, although the greatest interest was aroused by the fact that the authorities go beyond the preamble of the Constitution, indicating preferences regarding religion or the size of the organization. It is completely different from that of the constitution, which was created as a result of a consensus when it talks about believers and non-believers. And that's the way it's gonna be. And Minister Lipiński, which I regret to state, decrees that what is to distinguish the government's activities or determine its axiology is Christian religion. Maybe I'm not such an honest Christian, but I'm very appreciative of myself or my family, or I'm looking for all these values. However, I must say that the decree of a state church in the sense of the activities of NGOs does not offend non-believers, it offends all those who do not want to belong to the state church, does not want to confess the state religion and, all the more so, do not want to receive subsidies for it. On the contrary, Christians make up their churches and so see their role. In short, this entry in conjunction with the implementing provision, which is contained on the site where it is written, as to the tasks of the Institute, is the corruption of the Church, the political corruption of the Church. I would expect, however, as a man who is emotionally involved and not only with the Church, that he will protest against it or will not accept this bribe. [[Applause]] That's why the amendment, if there's gonna be a preamble... The point is to give away not so much as what Poland is supposed to look like, what preferences are to be... This amendment aimed at really focusing on what the government is proposing Support, assistance, coordination, implementation of initiatives. Not that kind of steering wheel. Further, since we are talking about this human energy calculated as billions, it would be advisable for those who are so-called. coordination would at least watch if they didn't control or even supervise... I think there's been a breach of all proportions. The council of the institute was established, which is probably the root of the Prime Minister's three executive decisions, because first there is a committee composed of... Actually, it's a principality, because it's hard to call it a committee. Mr. Senator, the committee had the impression that it was a party organization with some kind of parity of democracy, of course, democratic centralism. Here, the committee consists exclusively of ministers and no rules apply. How are decisions to be made? The Committee, of course, appoints a director and of course a chairman of the Council, but let us assume that someone must rule. It's still going on in this operation. This is the fifth degree of pressure or pressure, because the council also creates this president in such a way that he was assigned the right to appoint three members, perhaps eight. So this is the fourth degree of centralization. And this is where non-governmental organisations appear, of course, in minorities. And to this local government, within which there are a lot of organizations and which is actually a citizens' initiative, it turns out that a minority or at most a balance is given... I'm sorry, you only give him one place. However, the local government in the joint committee itself has at least 3 members of the local government, according to its initiatives and importance. There's only one place here, so there's a total dictation of the president. Moreover, the chairman of this council, who is unexpectedly appointed from the outside, is also entitled to a directorial empire in the form of decision-making on many matters. The amendment seeks to remove this rudeness towards the Council, to show respect, Mr President, Mr President. It is a matter of advice, even in this expression of opinion... that this opinion should be of a social character, not a ministerial nature. Righteously in the Seym And more than that, also in the Helsinki Foundation, which was said: no It has been noted that the institution that arises from the government, counter-acts on the basis of its own rules of procedure, manages the whole institute on the basis of self-nomination, controls itself and still carries out on its own behalf the tasks of which I have spoken, tasks assigned to the law. And here's a set of different tasks. He's here, of course. coordination or assistance, as rightly as possible. But there is unexpectedly a seventh task in this list of tasks: to promote the protection of the environment and animal rights. So she will directly support the protection of the environment and animal rights, not the NGOs that do it, but she will directly do it, direkt, as the Germans say. You didn't hear... What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? I think that no one has answered this question, why such an exception, since elsewhere there is only support, popularization, the execution of tasks commissioned by your president, education. Who is the biggest recipient in the field of environmental protection in Poland at the moment? [[Voice from the room: Father Rydzyk.]] My neighbor, and I'm not gonna talk bad about him. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. And that's why here it's a clean practical transfer... I don't mind supporting Father Rydzyk in his various initiatives, not only because I'm his neighbor, but because... I'm afraid that this isn't the best thing to do, as this proves that there have been trials around these cases. Of course, he's among those tasks. I will no longer quote the whole fourth task: to maintain and promote culture and rooted in the Christian heritage of national tradition... I would, of course, like it to be: spreading europeanity. We live in Europe, so spreading europeanity is a vision... [[The voice from the room: Where is it? Stop it!]] I'm asking too much, aren't I? I'm sorry. That's what I limit my demands. I'd like that to happen, too, because this is the right state, these are contacts. not only on the Merkel line Kaczyński, but this is the program Erasmus, these are programmes of scientific and cultural exchange, this is European television, this is even a deal with Hungary, a deal, let's say, territorial. In these tasks whether it is not in the content, but there is, of course, the management of European money. Finally, I am proposing amendments in which I generally grant the right, for example, to greater participation of non-governmental organisations. I'm also reporting, Mr. Senator, and I think you're... The legislative department, which was also told not to do so, proposed that, in this case, in the amendment concerning the deadline for implementing the law, this time limit should be fixed longer than standard, i.e. 2 weeks. Because in fact it is an expression of ignorance, if such a large bill, a law so much changing... if the setting of these organizations on a completely different ladder of hierarchy should be accomplished within 2 weeks. You'll admit it's... [[Mr. Senator, you've been reporting for 20 minutes. Time's up.]] Yes. Thank you very much, Marshal. Therefore, I request that the implementation of this law should not take place in the same way as usual, because it is 150 thousand organizations Only in 3-month mode. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u220	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Mr. Senator, until then... you've surprised me with your report I've heard here. What you have said indicates that these long-term deliberations of our committee, in which we have participated, in our thread of the most important... There were representatives of non-governmental organisations who, in my understanding, were present at the meeting of this committee. 99 per cent Or 98% were absolutely against this solution. And you said in your report that those were the voices that... Well, you're very upset to hear me say that, sir. He slipped over the subject. I would ask you to make this clear, because what you said is, in my opinion, arguing with what happened at the committee meeting. If your marshal will allow me, a brief second question. [[Yes, please.]] I would also ask you to correct what... It is about what was withdrawn by Minister Lipinski, namely that the FIO are mainly social projects. You know as well as I do that there were many segments... They're not social projects, and you said there were charges... and they're social projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u222	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u223	I'm here to see the second rapporteur, Mr... [[It's okay. Ask me a question.]] ...Senator Mioduszewski. I'd like the senator to explain a few concepts that are in the preamble. Please, Senator, tell me what mature patriotism means. [[That's what I don't even know.]] Tell me if there is any contradiction between Christian ideas and religious traditions. 'Cause that's where it goes... [[Voice from the room: The replacement is.]] Does this apply interchangeably? Is this about Christian ideas and other religions? Please tell me why in this preamble it is written that the Polish state supports the free and Christian ideals of citizens. This is a conjunction, i.e. there must be 2 premises for these ideals to be both free and Christian. And if they are free and unchristian, will the state not support them? [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] I'm just trying to explain a few concepts here, define them. This preamble matters, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Now Mr. Bogdan Klich. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u225	I'm here to see the Senator... [[Which Senator rapporteur?]] Senator of the family committee. [[Mr. Richard Majer. There you go.]] Senator, you are using, like many others, the term "consultation" to identify those meetings that took place in the various regions. Here I have an overview of how most of the 16 voivodships were held. In all these reports I repeat: there is a reservation for the term "consultation" in all of them. These meetings weren't any consultations. These meetings were discussion meetings of a more informative nature. They certainly weren't consultations, because these meetings didn't discuss the principles of the bill... [[Question, Mr. Senator, please.]] I'll ask the one-time question at the end. ... Or her specific records. Even the representatives of the organizers finally admitted that these were information meetings. Was the committee informed that there was no public consultation with NGOs on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u226	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To answer Mr Duda's question, I would say that, of course, the social element that appears in the FIO is also a kind of common concept. This element also appeared at the committee meeting and appeared from NGOs. In fact, Minister Lipiński said that this was not the only factor that determined the transfer of these funds. However, I also met with non-governmental organisations that did not even apply to the FIO just because they were aware that it was running the Ministry of Social Policy, so it is probably for social action. Perhaps there was a conceptual constellation, that's what they thought. Indeed, Minister Lipiński explained that this was not the only factor that determined the change in the location of this fund. Non-governmental organisations at committee meeting. Indeed, there were dozens of NGOs at our family committee. Their representatives spoke. These voices, ladies and gentlemen, were at different levels of detail. That's how I'm gonna say it. So the organizations were largely referring to the specific provisions of the law that they questioned. E.g. In one of the statements, the position of the Director, his position in the legal sense, was questioned. There were allegations from some NGOs to the preamble and the Christian dimension. A representative of one of the non-governmental organizations, the National Women's Strike, said that joining organisations whose representatives were not allowed into the room came out of our meeting. A representative of the public benefit council thought that this change would not benefit small non-governmental organisations, of which much is said in this law, that they would achieve an investment, because they are often overlooked. In turn, the Confederation of Non-Government Initiatives indicated that this law would increase the professionalisation of NGOs in small cities, small towns, because they would be able to receive funds for institutional development. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. Mr. Senator, I just wanted to know what proportion of the votes against this bill and behind this bill were. I'm not asking for details. Just let the High House know what the proportions were.]] I'd say 75:25. [[But which way?]] These critical assessments... [[98 against...]] [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone.]] But I didn't sit where you were sitting, and I couldn't see everything. [[Okay, thank you. Please don't get into the discussion. Do you have anything else to add, Senator?]] Maybe I'll tell Senator Klich, Mrs. Marshal, right away, and I'll leave the podium. [[There you go. Yes, of course.]] Senator Klich... [[Voice from the room: And then?]] [[Senator Mioduszewski will answer.]] Senator Klich asked me about the consultation procedure. We were informed about the consultation procedure during the meeting that they were conducted, that more than 800 people participated in them and were held in all voivodships in our country. That was the information. [[But just read the report of these meetings, in which you can see that they are not consultative, but informative, i.e....]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u228	Thank you very much... [[...no consultation.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mioduszewski. Please answer the questions of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! Well, I'm not the author of the recitals and the words used there. As for the definition of mature patriotism... Well, everyone can have their own definition. I probably have my own, Mr. Marshal has his own. I don't think we're gonna be here... Just like there's 100 of us or almost 100... well, these definitions are probably gonna be different. Let's not argue about the definition. [[That's why it's a problem. 'Cause there's got to be precise definitions here.]] [[Because there can't be anything in the bill that...]] [[Gentlemen, please be quiet. You will be able to speak in the discussion.]] [[But not just...]] That is my position, but I understand that it is unacceptable for you. As for contradictions: Christian values, religious traditions... Well, I don't see any contradiction here. Those two adjectives, well... [[Traditions...]] These adjectives are free and Christian... But maybe about these values. Well, Christian values accompany us from Living I, we put them on the banners, we have a constitution, so I don't know why such an adjective can cause controversy here. And religious traditions... We know well that religious traditions are different in our nation. We have reform traditions, Orthodox traditions, Catholic traditions, and I don't want to name everyone here anymore. So that this religion is justified in relation to the Christian record. As far as freedom is concerned, Christianity, whether or not it is connected, does not rule out... Well, these are two different adjectives. On the one hand, they do not exclude themselves, but on the other hand... Christians have clarity, and freedom... may not involve any religion, any religion, and so I read it. It's a supplement to a certain... I don't know if I've forgotten something, but I think it's all about questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Rybicki a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the minority rapporteur Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Senator, the bill, although called technical, organisational, is preceded by a preamble that is clearly ideologically motivated. These passages have already been cited, which point to such an ideological character: the maintenance and dissemination of culture and rooted in the Christian heritage of national and local traditions, the maintenance of Polishness and the development of national, civic and cultural awareness. I am okay with that provided that other values are also respected and supported by the Institute. And I would like to ask whether during the debate the Senators of Law and Justice, but also representatives of non-governmental organisations, such opinions, filled with concern that the Institute will support such issues and organisations that deal with social inequalities and discrimination based on sex, age, disability, sexual orientation, or will support such organisations which are open to tolerance, diversity or environmental issues. Was this sensitivity presented by the Senators of Law and Justice during the committee's work, and did the representatives of the invited organizations talk about these dilemmas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u232	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Waldemar Slugocki. Please. [[Me, too?]] I don't know who, we're about to find out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u233	Yes, to the minority rapporteur, to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, if I may. Mr. Senator, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, my club friend mentioned a process of public consultation, which raises a lot of doubts, not only because it took place when there was no bill draft, but, little of it, there were not even assumptions of the bill, but also during the time when most Poles were working, until 3:30 p.m. 23 meetings took place, including regional meetings in cities such as Rzeszów, Zielona Góra, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Łódź, Bydgoszcz, Toruń and Radom, but unfortunately they did not take place on the subject, because the participants of these public consultations were not passed on either the principles of the law or the content of the law itself. So, Senator, didn't this happen during the committee's deliberations with the surprise and lack of acceptance of such public consultations among the senators, the members of the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u234	Thank you. And your Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podzier. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal. Which senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Mioduszewski. [[Ask them, the senator will answer them later.]] Mr. Senator, there is a very wide range of responsibilities and possibilities for the influence of the National Institute of Freedom, or the Centre for Civil Society Development, included in the preamble, which we are talking about here today, because from social matters to animals, etc. Is it therefore envisaged that the work of this centre will be spread over some branches or branches? Because matter is enormous. How many employees will be employed in this regard? Is that number 60 that Senator Augustine was talking about here, closed and targeted, or can it be liquid? And further: how many of them will be in the rank of ministers, directors, at all - Functions? - Mm-hmm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Please, Mr. Senator. Later, Senator Mioduszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u237	I'll answer Senator Rybicki first. Thank you for that question, because you point to... Firstly, I would like to say that this issue was raised here. Because it's not that this bill talks about 100 million and there's a small percentage of the resources that the institute will be running. There is an open gateway to taking over the EU's resources. And this is a huge, really huge pool, which is addressed by NGOs. There's the possibility of taking over... the management of the means that come from, for example. from the Norwegian Fund. The Norwegian government, as far as I know, is protesting and saying that it will never agree that NGOs do not share these resources. But it's still in the bill. So it's not like this bill ends... Moreover, the minister emphasized that programmes would only be set up and, according to the law, money would be spent on them. Not necessarily from the resources that have been written down here. So this is the opening of the gateway to the ownership of most of the funds that NGOs have today, which win in competitions, the result of which is anonymously decided by experts... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] ...whose names can't even be known. It's about to change. On this occasion it was said, Mr Senator, that, since this possibility is already in place, the values on the basis of which the European Union allows such resources to be available should be entered. And that's where all kinds of equality issues are written, including gender equality. In fact, such a range was not indicated. This has been pointed out as a threat that this means that these values will not need to be taken into account in the management of these measures now. And here's my thanks, Senator, because you're making a very important point. Non-governmental sector in the context of subsequent amendments to the Public Benefit Act He cared very much to include all areas of NGO activity in this law. And over the years, the catalogue of these tasks has been constantly expanded to include what NGOs have requested, what has brought life and what has been omitted at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know that this law does not apply to all the tasks that have been included there. Absolutely not. That's why we say it's an exclusionary character. Not only from an ideal point of view, but also from the point of view of the scope of the tasks. Moreover, in the article. Paragraph 24 3 in point 12, it is stated that the National Institute will be able, on the basis of this law, to carry out other tasks commissioned by the National Institute as we already know The political chairman of the committee. At the same time, funds will be provided for their implementation. Thus, it can be said that also tasks which, at all, with no catalogue, nor with this, nor in the Act on Public Use, are not in place, can be freely commissioned, it could be said, because it is stated here that, on behalf of the chairman of the committee, they are undertaken and carried out. So, on the one hand, we have situations where even when it comes to EU funds, certain requirements in terms of, let's call it, an ideological not You have to follow it, and on the other hand there's a whole directory of tasks... As far as I remember, there are probably thirty-seven of them in the Public Benefit Act, and here we have 11 of them, and in item 12 it is written that it is quite agreeable, i.e.. If money is given, then what you want will be realized by this way. This is one of the reasons why we objected at the committee meeting, listening to the voice of non-governmental organisations. To answer the question of Senator Slugocki, I would like to say that there was talk about what these consultations looked like or so called. Consultation Because it was a parody of consultation. The organizations that came to me for consultations, and there were seventy few of them, I was surprised by such great interest, and even, I will tell you honestly, not prepared for the reception of so many guests. they informed me about what the consultations in Wielkopolska looked like. Well, this meeting, because not consultation, was devoted to hearing a communication on the subject, well, not even details of the bill, but, you might say, the ideal assumptions of this law, was not given a chance for a fair debate, a fair discussion. That is why I was thanked that at the meeting there was finally an article after the article, writing after writing this project read it, calmly analyze it and express itself. I informed during the committee meeting that I had been authorized by these organizations to say this proposal decisively. This is important, because although the justification of the project is that the law is intended to serve small organisations, it is these small organisations, really small Most of them came to the meeting I had about this presentation: we do not want it, we see it as a threat to ourselves. I was informed that no representatives have yet been appointed for the implementation of this law in the voivodship, and already the voivode has sent a letter to some organizations in which he asks for the application, among others. very sensitive information on whether the organisation works, how it works, what it does, what the authorities are, what resources it has at its disposal, etc. Why would he do that? And why is that necessary? You really don't know. Organizations have been looking at it with a very suspicious eye, because no one's asked it so far. These data that you need to have and which are important are contained in the national register, but it goes deeper here. Many organizations have informed me that they have not provided such information to the voivodeship. So, Mr. Senator, these consultations were presented by organizations in a very bad light.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u238	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Mioduszewski to answer your Marshal's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u239	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, there was no talk at the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions about the branch and how many people would work there. There was only mention of the number of members of the board, the number of directors, deputies. I came across this, but not at the committee meeting, just the number of jobs, just 60 jobs. [[60? More...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u240	Thank you very much. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: 60 people, employees. And how many functions?]] [[No, I've only heard about 60 jobs.]] I see. Perhaps that question could be addressed to the Minister. [[Yes, perhaps the Minister will have more information.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. Now you ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm here to see the Senator of the rapporteur. [[Which one?]] Senator Mioduszewski. [[Please.]] My first question is this: who will specifically make the award decisions? Two: why should the director of the institute be selected without a competition? Why is there such a record here, Senator? Very interesting and interesting is another issue concerning this National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. I'm asking you more as an entrepreneur. It is a way of supervising and controlling this institution, because according to my analysis there is actually no social control over it. Because isn't it that all the bodies mentioned in the Act, from the President of the Council of Ministers to the President of the Committee for Public Use, the Director of the Institute and the Council of this Centre, come from the same broadcast? And they're supposed to control each other? After all, the government is calling, the government is in charge and the government is in control. When I worked for 25 years in the trade code structures, I did not see such a situation. Should this be the case for institutions supporting the development of civil society? And why is there no control on behalf of non-governmental organisations that this law is supposed to serve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u242	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Do you want to ask a question, Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u243	Yes, I'd like to ask the senator what I mentioned in my reply. Perhaps you have been told what lies behind this competence, according to which the National Institute of Freedom will be able to carry out other tasks commissioned by the Chairman of the Committee, the Minister. Did they talk about what that would mean exactly? That's one thing. The second concerns the preamble. Mr. Marshal asked about another matter, and I would like to know if it was explained how it should be understood that, at the same time, it would have to be taken into account whether the applicant, as I understand it, was using the services of these new institutions. They are driven by pro-social motivations and have pro-state attitudes. What does that mean? Because it's a "i" and not a "or." At the same time, we need to be pro-social and pro-state. Who's gonna decide that? [[Thank you, Senator.]] Take, for example. demonstrators. Are they pro-state and pro-social or the other way around? Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u244	Well, I don't know if that was mentioned at the committee meeting. The senator will speak, but Senator Waldemar Slugocki has a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I will refer to a colleague sitting next to me, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, so to the point public consultation. Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that on 20 January 2017 such consultation, actually pseudo consultation, took place in Zielona Góra. They were attended by a group of NGOs. In total, there were 27 people from 21 organizations. After the whole discussion there was a vote, a vote on the evaluation of the document submitted, or actually general assumptions, because there was no document in paper form at the time. There was also no bill at that meeting. And imagine that during this vote 12 people were against, 6 abstentions and no one voted in favour. Mr. Senator, is this your view of taking the views of non-governmental organisations into account? I mean, this is devastating. How, then, does the Government of Law and Justice treat the voice of its citizens? Is this serious treatment of NGOs and Poles activity down there, in local Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u246	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u247	Maybe I'll refer to this lack of control over the institute. This institute seems to have the proper control. First of all, it has a statute that says it's going to work, second, 11 people from the president enter the board, 5 from non-governmental organizations, a representative of the local government, so there's some kind of control. And the Director, as the executing authority, is subject to all public finance rigors. So I think there's control here. I don't know what the senator's control is about, but... This is not an independent being who is not under any control.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u248	Dear Senator, there cannot be such a situation as to control himself. And here they all come from one trunk. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Take it easy, I'm really asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u249	The National Freedom Institute implements programmes adopted by the Council of Ministers. They will be prepared by the Committee on Public Use. Government programmes will be subject to extensive public consultation. So transparency and transparency are kind of preserved. [[It will be that people say no, and the government says yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay, thank you very much. I'm still asking you to answer another question, Senator.]] I'm sorry, I wrote so ugly that... who's gonna make decisions about... I'm sorry, I didn't get it. Mr. Senator... That's the senator's question... [[Komarnicki.]] Who's gonna make the decisions... the principal? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I mean. About the principal? Well, he's calling and dismissing the president... [[Maybe I'll say it again. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll do it again. Why should the director of the institute be selected without a competition, and why is there such a record? That's, I think, a logical question.]] I mean, you could have accepted... There were two versions, it's accepted. I... well, I don't know, but since he's called in, I think it's easier to call him off by those who call him in. For me, it's... [[The voice from the room: Oh, yeah.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't see any discrepancies here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please!]] Well, you can take another version, but it was accepted and, I'm very sorry, the committee voted in favour of this solution. [[Voices from the hall: Well, you know... there's no way...]] And as for Senator Augustine's questions... Other tasks were not discussed in detail at the committee meeting. As for the recitals and the terms "prostateism" and "prosociality," I think those terms are quite clear, so... And the assessment of this... Well, like I said here about... these competitions and consultations are gonna be transparent, so I don't think there should be any discrepancies here, what is pro-stateism, pro-sociality. [[And the senator's question...]] But, as I said, this was not the case at the committee meeting, it was not analysed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u250	What about Senator Slugocki's question? Senator Slugocki... [[But now... now Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.]] Oh, now Mr. Mieczysław Augustyn. Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u251	Senator, as Mr Senator Klich said, as I said in the report... I confirm that in many cases And this was pointed out by non-governmental organisations at the committee's meeting. The consultations were seemingly facaded, and where they were conducted such that they were eventually discussed and asked for opinions, the opinion of the organization was, as the senator said, contrary to the expectation of the authors of this law, i.e. organisations were mostly against it. So... well, what do I say? We are dealing with the situation that the organizations were not applicants, they were not creators, they spoke in these apparent consultations against the majority, at the committee meeting they voted against, and the government says: we will still make you happy, although you think it is dangerous for you. [[Can I ask you a question, Mrs. Marshal? One brief question for you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u252	Please, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u253	Thank you. Mr. Senator, don't you think... After all, these excursions of officials cost something, delegations on the route Warsaw Green Mountain or Gorzów, Bydgoszcz, etc., etc. These are long distances. Isn't it a shame to waste public money on such a pseudo consult? What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u254	That's my personal opinion. Consultations that are badly organised and which are apparent in nature are the throwing away of public money. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u255	Thank you. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u256	Question for the Senator of the family committee, Senator Majer. We've settled this, Senator. Thank you for your honesty in response. That there was no consultation. Now I would like to ask you why at the committee meeting you are reporting I wasn't at the committee meeting. Some citizens who were representatives of non-governmental organisations were not allowed in. Us, i.e. A dozen senators of the Civic Platform, today we have made a statement to the Senate Marshal in which we protest against such a crime. As I hear, they weren't allowed in because they were banned by the Marshal of the Sejm. But the Senate isn't the Sejm. Until now, the Marshal of the Seym was equal to the Marshal of the Senate. The jurisdiction of the Marshal of the Sejm does not apply to the Senate building. So what right have these citizens not been allowed to attend your committee when she was sitting, since the Senate Marshal did not issue such a ban? I'd like to know if I could correct the statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u257	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u258	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Majer. Mr. Senator, in the course of the debate, we have already established the matter of pseudo-consultation. I have a question for you. Are the representatives of the committee or you personally familiar with the document of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights? If you are familiar with it, I would like you, as chairman of the committee, to speak on behalf of the committee or your committee, which has a bit more power than a member of the committee. Let me quote the last sentence of this document. According to the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the adoption of the bill in its current form will be a departure from the idea of supporting the development of civil society in Poland and will introduce a systemic threat to the independent functioning of NGOs in Poland. Or, as with all the other undemocratic principles that you've put in place in various kinds of laws... Do you think this is just an opinion you can read and reject? Was she the subject of the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u259	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u260	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Of course, it is clear that I am in favour of an absolute rejection of the bill, because it has nothing to do with freedom, and freedom reminds me of the purity of the rules. Mr. Senator, mostly when you write the bill, I have ten years of experience in the Sejm. It's written as if you're in opposition. Did you talk at the committee meeting about the fact that this bill, if it passes in its shape, which I don't believe, is going to hit the individual... will be turned against a possible 2% so-called. non-governmental institutions that have supported... As you said, they only supported 2% and 98% It didn't. Can you tell me if the committee meeting gave, I don't know, the names of the institutions or any groups that support this bill? If that was the case, I'd ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u261	You're welcome. Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u262	I understand that Senator Fedorovich also asked me this last question, or was it Senator Mioduszewski? [[Yes, Mr. Senator. Because we know each other very well, and I'd like to hear...]] [[All three questions for you.]] Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I answer to Senator Klich. I made it clear that at the meeting of our committee, Minister Lipiński informed that consultations were taking place. There was no longer discussion on the quality of these consultations, but consultations took place. And that is what I would like to stress with all my might. Senator Klich asked why representatives of certain NGOs were not allowed in. They were not allowed in at the command of the Marshal's Guard. President Duda is to ask for clarification, and we also expect this information at the committee meeting, why this has happened. I'm answering Senator Blackbay's question. Representatives of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights were present at the meeting of our family committee and took the position. I don't even... Unfortunately, I haven't read what you have, so I can't say exactly... But I would like to stress that the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights is one of the 120,000 NGOs in our country. It is a large organisation, serious, but it is one of the 120 000 organisations that operate in our country, and as such it can formulate opinions for legal acts, it can express these opinions. We, as parliamentarians, are always very keen to get acquainted with opinions, but in the course of the political process, part of the opinion is taken into account, part of the opinion is taken into account to a lesser extent. And last question, Senator Fedorovich's question. The senator asked... It's not like that either. I have to go back to how many organizations were supporters of this decision and how many were not. In my opinion, as it was said at the committee meeting That's what you asked Senator Duda in one of his first questions. It appears that these organisations did not directly condemn the law as a whole, but that there were allegations of very specific articles in the course of their work. But we can't tell you that it was 2% when it came to those who were in favour of the bill, because they would have to be 100 here in the courtroom. [[I'm talking 100%...]] No, it was more... Let us not demonize the situation at the moment that almost no one was in favour of this law, because there was a group of NGOs that supported it. Mr. Senator Fedorovich "Thank you very much for this question,'he asked about the most vulnerable organisations that could be harmed. It is this law that aims to strengthen the weakest. And there was a discussion about it. There was also a discussion at the committee meeting about the fact that there are many organisations that operate in a rural environment that do not have access to EU funds, to structural funds, and many organisations that cannot develop. The institutional development that we are talking about in this law will also be a formula that will enable them to function normally, give them the opportunity to train, develop, arrive, travel by delegation, learn about, gain new experiences. This law on the National Institute of Freedom is a law designed to strengthen small NGOs. It is addressed to them and addressed to them. It is designed to create such infrastructure conditions that these small organisations, this simplest social activity, can develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u263	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I think we should take a break so we can give the senators a chance to get a normal job, because there is an intervention by the Marshal's Guard at the moment that interferes with normal work. [[Voice from the room: It's all yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u265	Excuse me. Excuse me. [[It's your marshal who has absolute power to cut this case, isn't it?]] [[What is it?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] What happened? [[Mrs. Marshal, the situation is quite unusual.]] [[Voice from the room: Into the microphone.]] But what about the microphone? Well, come to me, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u266	Mrs. Marshal, the situation is curial... [[You're welcome. Come here.]] ...is extraordinary completely. Namely, there are representatives of non-governmental organizations which the Marszałkowska Guard wants to remove from this meeting. Well, then it's completely incomprehensible to us. [[Voice from the room: The Institute of Freedom works.]] When we were just asking why representatives of non-governmental organisations were not allowed to attend the committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u267	I'm sorry, I'm in charge... [[...though there is no such ban on the Senate Marshal. Well, it's kind of a curiosity situation. We talk about them, among other things...]] [[We're talking about the Freedom Institute.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. I'm ordering a minute's break... [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 50 to 17 minutes 52]] Wait a minute. It is only now that I resume the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I address your senators. If you are inviting guests, I ask that you observe such a principle that guests should have passes so that they can know who is who and who is entering the sitting room. I allow this exception that you came in here, invited by Marshal Borusewicz; the state will listen in peace and stay in this gallery. But if there's any other guys who don't have clearances, I'm not letting these people go to the gallery anymore. [[Applause]] And we proceed with further deliberations. Please, in terms of formality. But briefly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u268	Mrs. Marshal, if you wanted to allow this exception, you might also want to intervene on the rule, because from what I hear, there are representatives of other non-governmental organisations who have passes before entering the building, and are not allowed into the building. If you... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...she also wanted to intervene in the matter of not exception, just rules, that would be great. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u269	Mr. Senator, thank you for your attention. I'm in session. I beg you, please, that we proceed with the further... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for further deliberations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u270	About the formal issue. I would like to thank your Marshal for this decision, the right decision, because my guests, invited guests, did not come here to disturb or brawl, just to listen to the Senate's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u271	Yes, I do, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. And let's get back to it, ladies and gentlemen. Another round of questions. Senator Rybicki, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, for letting me... [[Which of the Senators of the rapporteurs?]] Thank you for letting me ask you a question in a normal, undisturbed atmosphere. I have a question for Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, who represents the request of a minority. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'll wait for the senator to show up at the podium. [[Ask a question, sir. The senator hears it.]] And don't count my time... [[There you go.]] Mr Senator, I would like to ask if during the work of the applicant's committee, speaking of these organisational and financial issues, they indicated the total annual amount of the Institute's maintenance? What's the amount? And how does it relate to the resources that the Institute will have for statutory purposes? I would also like to ask whether during the debate there were arguments that the tasks to be carried out by the Institute could be freely entrusted by means of a competition of a non-governmental institution which could pursue the objectives of the Institute's Statute equally well and certainly cheaper. In this context were there also any comparisons concerning the existing Polish National Foundation, which received PLN 100 million from state institutions? Wasn't there a vote during the debate that, after all, these funds could also be issued by the third sector, which would perform the same tasks that were assigned to the Polish National Foundation more competently and certainly more cost-effectively?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] And Senator Waldemar Slugocki. Which of the Senators are you addressing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u274	My first question is, Mrs Marshal, to the minority rapporteur, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, and the second question, if I may, to Senator Majer. Mr. Senator, don't you think the National Freedom Institute? The Centre for the Development of Civil Society will be a kind of regulatory body restricting the freedom of non-governmental organisations? This is because there will be such relations between these entities, that by creating among others. financial policy, the institute will be a kind of donor, rewarding obedient NGOs, who will join the government line and at the same time marginalize, ignore those organizations that will act in accordance with the expectations of the public, pursuing their passions and wishing to activate the Polish society. That's a question for Senator Augustine. And now the question for Senator Richard Majer. Mr. Senator, imagine that the Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Gliński, the civil society representative, justifying the establishment of this institution, says this: the establishment of the National Institute of Freedom The Centre for Civil Society Development is part of the PiS programme. I ask you very much on your own behalf, but also on behalf of your constituents, to point out these elements of the Law and Justice programme, which aim directly at restricting the freedom of NGOs, restricting the civil liberties of Poles, restricting the determination, passion and willingness of Poles to act in non-governmental organisations. [[Thank you very much.]] Show such a record in the Law and Justice Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u275	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no senator? Good. This is Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u276	Mrs. Marshal, I have two questions for Senator Majer. Mr. Senator, you've said, quite rightly, perhaps, the principle of strengthening these small NGOs. Could you indicate in the bill the passage in which the instruments that these NGOs will strengthen are mentioned? That's the first question. And once again, I am returning to this consultation because you said that during the committee meeting you were informed that 800 people were involved in the consultation, and we are reading reports which contain completely different information. It wasn't a consultation, it was information: that's the way it's supposed to be, in short, and thank you very much. Shouldn't we ask the Minister again, ask government representatives to settle the question of consultation? Consultations on non-governmental organisations are the basis of legislation in this area. The confusion between consultation and information is a fundamental error in the legislative process, Senator, which is why I would like you, as chairman of this committee, to refer to this topic.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u277	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to answer the question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u278	To answer the first questions asked by Senator Rybicki, let me say this: the issue of costs was raised at the committee meeting. They're in the bill. Of course, those who believe that it is unnecessary to appoint this institute, council and committee, pointed out that it would be better to allocate this money to the organisation for grants, that it would be much more useful. Moreover, it was also pointed out that, in fact, adding the 40 million PLN to the 60 million FIO, but at the same time granting itself the right to freely dispose of this money And here I am going to answer you, as I understand it, the second question opens the way for the transfer of this money to those entities that are considered to be valuable by the management of this committee, i.e. by the members of the Council of Ministers. Of course, with regard to the Polish National Foundation, it was me who used this example in the discussion at the committee meeting, that this law allows for this kind of free grant of various types of entities without any competitions. I pointed out the case of the Polish National Foundation as an example of circumvention, in my opinion, laws and rules which should govern the management of public funds. So that these issues were very critical at the committee meeting. When it comes to the question of Senator Slugocki, it must be said that representatives of NGOs who were present, very well prepared in substance, spoke in detail about these threats to the freedom of functioning of NGOs. Starting with the exclusion of the preamble, through a list of tasks which is limited in relation to it from the Act on Public Use, finally by the way in which the money is divided, which escapes completely from the competitions or at least can escape by a free decision of the Director of the Institute, which in turn is freely appointed by the Minister and can be freely cancelled. This institute is freely entitled to a statute, and non-governmental organisations that are members of the Council can at best express an opinion that needs not be taken into account. Well, it's hard to talk about anything other than restricting the freedom of non-governmental organisations to access public funds, not a small amount of public funds. They were also informed and referred to those biased decisions, which also concerned the Foundation of.Lux Veritatis, but also vice versa, taking money e.g. The Center for Women's Rights or the slandering of certain organizations in public media, such as the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. So that these issues were presented as disturbing, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u279	Thank you. Senator Major. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer Senator Slugocki's question... There was no Prime Minister Gliński at our committee meeting, so that I cannot answer your question directly. However, when we read the Law and Justice programme with which we went to the elections, and the Law and Justice programme, which, unlike some of them, we are already pursuing two years after the elections... The conclusion is that for two years we have been giving Poland to Poles and restoring their dignity. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] That was by the way. [[Us, Poles?]] Because it wasn't the subject of our committee meeting. Senator Czarnobaj's question. Mr. Senator, in chapter 3, in article. In paragraph 24, the following paragraph is added: Point 3 states that it is also the task of the National Institute to promote grassroots civic activity, to strengthen the social ethos of citizens, to support and promote volunteering. This is a recipe that applies to these small organizations. Plus, it appears in the bill. I can't find it right now; I'm sure the Minister will answer that in detail. The record on institutional development, and this is really the most important for these small organisations. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I fill in?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u281	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Okay, I found it. Mr. Senator, could you explain any further support in this area... I understand that this support for grassroots civic activity, social issues, concerns small organisations, and not large ones. Yes? So the big ones aren't gonna be... [[That's discrimination.]] That's discrimination. Yes? The point is, let's be clear. Are we talking small or large organizations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u283	Do you have anything else to add, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u284	Only the word "also." [[What about the big ones?]] [[Thank you very much...]] Also. [[Oh, that's small and big.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u285	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u286	Thank you very much. Senator Richard Majer, I ask you to answer one more question of mine. You've provoked me before with such a statement that the National Freedom Institute The Centre for Civil Society Development will ensure that NGOs in Poland have, among others. access to European funds. I would kindly ask you not to mislead the public and us here in this courtroom. I would like to say to you that it is nobody other than the European Union that cares particularly about the position of NGOs, including as regards access to funds from the European Union budget. This was the case in the perspective of 2004 and 2006 and 2007 and 2013. And that is, I assure you, in the 2014-2020 perspective. Examples: The Operational Programme.Knowledge, education, development, among the beneficiaries, Mr. Senator, are non-governmental organisations; the Operational Programme.Infrastructure and the environment, among the beneficiaries are non-governmental organisations operating in the environmental sector. [[Question, Senator, question.]] Coming right up, Marshal. Non-governmental organisations are also among the categories of beneficiaries of regional operational programmes. So please don't mislead the public. And if you are misleading this, then my question would be: why are you fooling us and the rest of the Poles by misleading us? Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator, what's the word "hossing"? Well, weigh what you say a little bit.]] Mrs. Marshal, I take responsibility for what I said. Senator Majer said in his speech that NGOs do not have access to European funds, and therefore the National Institute of Freedom will be the guardian of so that NGOs can... [[Good. Senator Majer will be bringing that up in a minute.]] ...to use European money. That's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u287	Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome. And then you're Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u288	Mrs. Marshal, as you calculated Senator Duda, 98% the organisation is against and 2% is in favour of this solution, in favour of calling the so-called. The National Freedom Institute. I have a question for Senator Augustine. I quote: Non-governmental organisations have not requested such an institution, and the new rules do not improve civil society in Poland in any way, but allow the current governing party to take control of financial resources, including EU funds, which will be granted without reliable procedures. And further: there is a risk that organisations controlling authorities so as not to infringe civil rights will be ignored by the decision of the Institute when allocating funds for the activities of organisations, including funds originating in the European Union. End of quote. True or false?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u289	Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u290	I have a question for Senator Majer. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24 on the tasks of the National Institute is indicated in the manner in which the tasks will be carried out. They will be contracted to institutions or entities that will be selected by means of an open tender contest. But there is also a clause that allows the Institute to carry out its tasks on its own. How and who will determine which tasks the Institute will carry out on its own? What will be the parity, and what will decide that the Institute will be able to decide whether to perform the task itself or to order the task to third parties?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u291	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u292	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to Senator Slugocki's question. Well, to charge me with fraud in the Senate is pretty... That's a brave but hasty phrase, Senator. [[Why?]] Let me explain. If we look at social reality, we will see that we are dealing with different actors. There are actors with excellent staff who are able to apply for EU funds, but also very modest ones, consisting of socialists, which, although I stress, the potential availability of European Union funds cannot achieve this without enabling them to develop organisationally and institutionally. That's it. You know that very well, Mr. Senator. And to answer Senator Wcislo's question... [[Senator Vistula...]] [[It's tight.]] There was no such direct question at our committee meeting, it was not discussed. I propose that you address this question to the Minister present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u293	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj wants to ask you a question. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Excuse me, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u294	Mr. Senator, of course I know perfectly well. I know just as well, Mr Senator, that there are various sources of funding from the European Union budget, which affect gradation, on the access of non-governmental organisations with different potentials to these resources. Other requirements are, for example, in the case of the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and the environment, or Knowledge, education, development, and completely different in the case of the Rural Development Programme. There are other requirements for measures which are the subject of e.g. Euroregions. Small NGOs with very modest institutional potential are also preferred there. All I'm asking is that we don't tell and tell the public that without the National Freedom Institute The Centre for the Development of Civil Society anyone in Poland will forget about NGOs as an institution that can benefit from European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u295	Thank you, Senator. You are expressing your views, there will be time for this discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. [[Mrs. Marshal, the question is...]] Please. Which senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u296	Senator Majer, because, I see, the senator knows this bill very well, and he interprets it very nicely. I, too, would like to ask for an interpretation, Senator. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 1 states that the national institute carries out tasks in particular to improve the institutional efficiency of non-governmental organisations. I'd ask you to tell me what that's supposed to mean. If the organizations ask me, I'd like to answer them, and you, I see, are expert in these terms. That's the first question. And second question. Senator, this is about financial assistance and institutional assistance issues for small organisations. My question is this: in your opinion, is it just an institute of freedom? Was this discussed at the committee meeting? Could it be the institution that will help these small organisations, or maybe there are other forms of assistance for small non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u297	Thank you very much. Who here wants to ask you another question? Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u298	We forgot Senator Libicki. So the question for Senator Libicki. Mr. Senator was making a motion to delete the preamble. I'm not asking about the contents of this recital. I would like to know, because I have not met with such a thing, whether you have met with the law in the course of your parliamentary work, apart from the basic law in which the preamble is needed, justified, etc., any other ordinary law in which there would be a preamble. Did you come across the situation that suddenly, out of the blue, the preamble was needed? Everyone in this room knows about this situation. In the first version of the recital project there was no, and now the preamble is. Without going into the content of this preamble, I would like to ask what your parliamentary experience is telling you about the preamble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u299	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? No. So we're just finishing up a round of questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Majer and Senator Libicki from the scene, please. You're welcome... [[But so do I. There was a question for me.]] [[From the point of view.]] Was there a question for you? Okay, just a moment, sir, after Senator Major. Okay? And the senator from the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Czarnobaj compliments me, of course. I'm not a brilliant expert, an interpreter of this act. [[I'm just saying how I feel.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'm just trying to tell you what happened at the committee meeting. It was precisely this institutional development that was at the committee meeting. Institutional development is that we allow the organization to act e.g. in the inter-grant period when there are no grants. The organisation does not have to apply only for grants, for projects. Maybe. invest in an accountant, buy a computer, buy a printer, pay rent for the place. And that has to do with the second question that the senator was gracious to ask: who helps these little organizations? So there's a common complaint to these small organizations that they don't receive funds from anybody for their day-to-day maintenance. Because also grant competitions that organize local governments are special purpose contests for projects. If the organisation carries out the project, it is alive and may undertake certain activities within the project, but if the organisation ceases to carry out the project or e.g. She's got some kind of training trip, and she didn't include it in the project, and that's not an option anymore. This is about building the social capital of those who operate and operate in non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, to what you said to the senator, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u301	Do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u302	Again, Mr. Senator. If I may, Mrs. Marshal... Mr. Senator, I understand the state of things today, because this has been mentioned many times before. I'm just gonna repeat my question again: did the committee's meeting talk about this? And if you don't, what's your opinion? That the only panacea or maybe the only condition for the development of these small organisations is the State Institute of Freedom? [[So-called.]] So-called.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u303	Please, Mr. Senator. [[So is public television, which is transparent and objective.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the National Freedom Institute is a tool in the government's hands. The government has no other tools to create a policy of cooperation and development of social capital and non-governmental organisations, at least in this respect. So that if there are other tools on the local government side, then of course we can only applaud it. And this is one of the tools that can be used to strengthen social capital in NGOs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u305	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. [[That's not what I asked, but I'm...]] Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and then Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I answer: this is the shortcut, the point of this letter of open Małopolska NGOs. In short, I also agree with the opinion that this law does not improve civil society in any way. Mr. Senator, also in the area you were just talking about. Since these institutional support tasks were enshrined in the Civil Initiative Fund, they were implemented in the grant formula and this is nothing new. There was only one thing that wasn't there. There was no way that money could be used after being considered. This is new. [[It was, too.]] In the same quote that Senator Klich, Mr President, referred to, it was said that the organisations were concerned that the authorities could, with the help of these regulations, control the activities of those civil organisations in particular, which aim to ensure compliance with the law and civil liberties in Poland. Of course I do. First of all, because this kind of task, which is in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, is not listed here as a separate one. Secondly, because it can be interpreted on the basis of recitals, that e.g. The organization which receives external funds, from outside Poland, is not a pro-state organisation and should not receive money. There are many dangers. Of course, it's about the lack of certainty that everything will be done in competitions and transparently. And finally, of course, it is about politicising the whole structure. Well, if the Minister is able, by nature, to freely appoint and dismiss the Director of the Institute, give the Institute a statute, and NGOs will only be able to express an opinion on this subject, even negative, and this will have no impact on decisions, then, of course, organisations, especially those controlling authorities and respect for civil rights, have the right to feel threatened. And indeed, these associations, such as the 100 Years of Voice of Women, the Montescius Institute, the Foundation of the Women of Science, the Association of the Civic Works, the Association of the Women's Rights, the Foundation of the Women's Rights in the Region, the Association of the City of Function, the Association of the City of Good Returns, the Foundation of the Geoarcheology, the Committee for the Defence of Democracy, which signed up under this opinion, would find at the committee of many allies who expressed the same opinions, and many senators, including me, who share this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u307	Thank you. Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u308	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll let you answer from the spot. To answer Mr Klich's question, I would like to say that I do not really recall meeting the preamble outside our basic law. I also spoke during the presentation of the minority proposal about the fact that it seems to me that this preamble is to be a signpost to which transfers to NGOs will flow and that they are to go in one specific direction. I think so. But based on the discussion that was here... Senator Augustine reminded me. I do not remember that, I admit that in this Act on public media, such a preamble also existed. I don't remember that, but if that was the case, today we see the consequences of the introduction of that recital. I go to public media, the state, many colleagues, you watch them, you're their viewers, and we see what this preamble has done. And I think... Here was an example of the Polish National Foundation. Well, the foundation is a word that is clearly associated with non-governmental organisations. And I remind you that when this foundation was established, the records were equally noble, lofty and it was said that this existence would promote Poland abroad. What he promotes and whether abroad, we all see today. So I think this preamble is about the National Freedom Institute Act. The Centre for Civil Society Development will have similar effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u309	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. We have the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Paweł Szrot. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: Yes, Mrs Marshal.)]] If you'll excuse me, Minister, please come to the podium and please step forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, it's quite hot. Senator Libicki has just made a statement on the preamble. I would just like to present a sophisticated system after about 30 seconds, maybe a minute of legislation that has a recital: the education system law, the family support law and the foster care system, the anti-violence law in the family. These are just three examples I found in a minute of searching. I think this should be multiplied at least a dozen times, Mr. Senator. Excuse me. [[No, please... of course.]] Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Senator Pociej quoted Marian Hemar here. I'd like to thank you for that, because good poetry can never be too much. He also referred to Zbigniew Herbert, which in the context of the fact that Senator Augustine was willing to compare me to the secretary of the PZPR, is, let's agree, quite original. [[The author's dubious...]] [[To the secretary of the committee.]] [[It's a subtle difference.]] You were talking, Mr. Senator, about the past era and the secretary of the committee, and I did some thinking process. There was a lot of talk here about the preamble, ladies and gentlemen. Senator Augustine accused that there was no reference to liberal values in the preamble to liberalism. If the senator understands the values of liberalism as a certain current in practice and political theory, then I am personally pleased that there is no reference to this current, and if you understand... [[That's your personal opinion.]] [[The senator has every right to do that. There's no appeal to liberalism. And how is liberalism interpreted?]] If the senator interprets liberalism as a principle of freedom, I would like to mention here paragraphs from the preamble: the Polish state supports the free and Christian ideals of citizens, supports organizations contributing to the fulfilment of ideals of freedom. I don't understand what you didn't find here, Senator. Senator Pociej said I'd be talking about details here. I don't want to get too detailed. The Senators of the committee presented the details of the bill very well. I would like to emphasise one basic thing. Many times the opposition senators have said in this Chamber that the law and institutions introduced it, that is, the institute and the president of the committee will be... They said the bill was a threat to the independence of non-public organizations. I'd like to ask, where exactly? Where do you see the records on the discretionary decisions of the Institute's director? Everything will take place as part of a free competition, according to certain criteria. No authority will act arbitraryly here. [[Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of ……]] Art. 30. The National Institute implements the programs itself or through an open competition of offers. [[Or.]] He's doing only those programs on his own that the Council of Ministers will point out... [[That wasn't written down.]] [[But don't argue, Senator.]] [[It's not... you've said it once before.]] I present my position, Senator. [[And I'm talking about the bill.]] It implements only those programmes, which the Council of Ministers will indicate as programmes supporting civil society. [[That's what they say, and that's not what it's gonna be.]] Senator Pociej, who I don't see in the courtroom, talked about how much in the previous government the organizations that opposed his politics were appreciated. It's about NGOs. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the organizations that challenged the policies of the previous government, were not even in the database of the Ministry that cooperated with these organizations. [[Good.]] Okay? [[It's a good thing you don't have the data.]] Well... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please do not engage in polemics. In a moment, you will be able to ask questions to the Minister. Now the Minister has the right to speak freely, so please be quiet.]] I would like to stress once again that this law creates new institutions, creates a committee, creates a chair of the committee and establishes an institute, but the regulations of the law on public benefit activities and all the procedures set out there will continue to work, so there is virtually nothing or very little change here. We have talked a lot about public consultation here. I just want to point out one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Public consultation is not just a meeting, it is a whole process defined by law, it is an opportunity to make virtual comments. I would just like to say that, as part of these public consultations, which you did not think were available, 200 substantive comments were submitted, a significant part of which was taken into account in the draft. A significant part of these comments has been taken into account. Here are some questions directly addressed to me. As far as jobs are concerned, that's all I can confirm: there are up to 60 jobs planned in the OSR. As far as functions are concerned, this is the director of the institute and 2 deputies. This is justified by the need to extend the Institute's future activities to the newly planned programmes. As far as supporting small organisations is concerned, this instrument concerns Article. 31 Act on the possibility that the National Institute may finance the institutional development of NGOs and entities, including organisational and administrative costs of their activities. This is a measurable form of support for smaller NGOs. And now once again, ladies and gentlemen, what is to be done by the institute and the chairman of the committee, is currently the prime minister responsible for social security, the Minister for Family Affairs, Labour and Social Policy. And it's been going on for a long time. He's also a politician. It also conducts competitions, also on the basis of these competitions and certain criteria allocates funds. I do not really understand what the situation introduced by our new law is different from the current situation. [[It's different because it's there...]] [[Mr. Senator, in a moment.]] [[I'm so sorry.]] Mr. Senator... Dear Marshals, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I request that the Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you. [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u311	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here because I'll have questions for the Minister. I would just like to remind you that the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Jarosław Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u312	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in an absolute sense of solidarism, as a person who has been an official and co-chair of the Council for Public Use for eight years, I would like to ask you if you worked on this bill. Did you consult with the environment, or did you meet with the environment? Because today we're talking about the law and justice flagship in this area. A ship that seems to be drifting a little. Because the environment is, in my opinion, much of it. Of course, it's probably also pluralistic and diverse. It's unfavorable to these decisions and solutions. That's my experience. And in this discussion, which we have been having here for hours and which we have been conducting before, at committee meetings, that was the message. I'd like to ask if you worked on this. Because it will also allow us to determine what questions we can ask you about certain details. Because if you say you didn't work, maybe you'll have to answer in writing. All I'm saying is there's gonna be a lot of questions. And I'd like to know what level of detail we can count on in your answers. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u313	In a moment, Minister. Now the question will be asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, then Senator Jerzy Wcisła and then I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u314	Minister, I regret that Minister Lipinski is not with us. If you would like to explain the reasons for the Minister's absence, who cooperated with us in the work on this bill... Because out of respect and respect for the representatives of the organizations who came today, and out of respect for us... I think that since this is such an important project for you, it is worth that Minister Lipiński... He notabene deserves to build civil society in Poland because he founded the Association of Free Words, and it was one of the NGOs that formed long ago, in the 1990s, I do not know or even in the 1980s. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] So explain the Minister's absence. And the other thing. Please explain to us why you needed this preamble. And why, instead of simply stating that you will grant grants to allow all actors, are you listing the preferred areas in which these grants will be awarded? Why would you do that if you're gonna make your own rules, determine who's gonna get what? This has aroused such great concern. The introduction of this recital seems really unwise to me, although in the text of the law itself, in one more article, there is a speech Senator Rybicki spoke about it. Preferenced e.g. Christian values. I'm a believer, and I think it's... [[Question, Senator.]] ...exceptional. So again: why such a preamble, and why such exclusionary wording? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u316	Minister, I'd like to ask you a few things, too. By the way, I disagree with the senator that Christianity is an exclusionary formula, because we don't... [[Preamble, Senator, not Christianity.]] Preamble, right? Good. But this... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...was supposed to be so by the way. Minister, you have doubts about putting the word "liberal" in the preamble, because you explain it to yourself somehow. Then tell me: should you, as a minister proposing a law of national character, apply your own ideas about concepts or ideas that operate in Polish? And let me remind you that in the dictionary of the Polish language the word "liberalism" is translated as a political concept, according to which individual freedom is an overriding value. The second translation of this term: understanding attitude toward other people's views and attitudes, tolerance. So please tell me: what is so dangerous for the Polish state in this definition? Or maybe the authors of the dictionary are wrong and should apply your interpretation? What, according to your interpretation of the word, is so dangerous that it cannot be introduced into the preamble? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u317	Thank you. I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u318	Mr Senator, as regards my participation in the draft law on the national institute, I can honestly say that it was limited to the stage of the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers. But we have Director Kaczmarczyk here, Director of the Civil Affairs Department, so if I... It may be necessary, Mrs. Marshal, that I ask for his support on some specific issues. [[You can also always reply in writing, Minister.]] Yeah, of course, I know. As far as Minister Lipinski is concerned, all I can say is that he asked me to replace him for reasons he considered important. That's all I can say. The senator also asked about the pronunciation and the wording concerning... I will remind them: the freedom and Christian ideals of citizens This is the wording in the preamble. I do not understand how it would be of an exclusive nature. This is a supplement to a catalog of ideas that guide the authors of this law. In mode...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u319	If the Minister asks me, I'll answer right away. I'm sure you know the preamble to our constitution. There is a very good way out of this kind of situation, there is talk about people who share similar values. If you used this constitutional formula, we'd have a completely different situation. And when I talk about certain... I don't pick on particular terms, Minister. But if there's a situation where we mention one thing, and we don't mention other things, it's mutually exclusive. Hence, there are all these legitimate questions about why there is no liberalism and why there are no other religions there. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u320	Thank you, Senator. Please don't give yourself the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u321	Senator, let me disagree with you deeply. I cannot understand how the wording of the preamble would exclude anyone. It is one of the elements of a wide directory. The reference to the Christian heritage in the field of the Institute's tasks is also one of the elements of a broad catalogue that concerns the Institute's activities. Dear Senator, you have quoted the dictionary definition of liberalism. In this sense I, too, can be considered a liberal, but we know that political trends can be defined in many ways along with the whole tradition, the legacy that comes with them. That's why I used words like that, not words like that. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u322	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, aside from being a representative of the Government of Law and Justice, as you mentioned, you replace or represent the Prime Minister of Gliński. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Lipiński.]] Lipinski. But you are a representative of the government, whose Deputy Prime Minister is Minister Gliński, who at one of the rallies of the club of Gazeta Polskie, said such words, I quote: you are the true Polish civil society. And since there is a true civil society, there is also a false civil society. What kind of society would you qualify for those NGOs that would like to carry out and carry out tasks related to social inequalities and discrimination on grounds of age, disability or sexual orientation? How do you qualify them? Which society? True or false? I ask about non-governmental institutions that organise environmental projects, but also promote tolerance, diversity and openness. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u324	Senator Jan Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u325	Thank you very much. Minister, first of all, thank you for reminding me of the preamble. I'm sure I could use that for the future. Now, when I ask a question, I'd like to start with a quote. In an interview with Norwegian press agency, Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg said on 7 May: "We cannot allow the governments of Poland and Hungary to have control over money for social purposes. We need to be sure that these funds are distributed by independent organisations. I understand that the Norwegian Prime Minister here speaks of the Norwegian Fund. I'd like to ask you if the National Freedom Institute The Centre for Civil Society Development will manage the Norwegian Fund, and if so, how will you convince Norwegian Prime Minister that her concerns are unfounded. Wouldn't there be a risk that she would take action, e.g. limit the access of Poland and Poles to the Norwegian fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u326	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'm going back to what you started with. Senator Majer spoke about institutional support for the development of small NGOs. As chairman of the committee, reporting what he heard and what he knows... I commended the senator, and you come to the pulpit, and he says it's not about supporting... it's not about art. 24, only about Article. 31. Well, I know it doesn't make a difference to you. Seven in one or seven in that one makes no difference. My question is this. Shouldn't you call a break and set up with the committee, which article is it? I want us to know this as people who aren't in committees, and if we go to meetings with representatives of NGOs, we don't do what you do here. I'll say it's about art. 24, and then someone else gets up and says it's about art. 31. Maybe we should call a break. The committee will meet and you, Minister, will explain to Senator Majer and the members of the committee that this is not an article. 24, only art. 31. That's the first question. Wouldn't it be worth it? The second question is this. Tell me or tell me what it means in the article. 24 increase the institutional efficiency of NGOs. What did the author mean by increasing efficiency? I am to understand that this is not about physical fitness, it is about improving the efficiency of NGOs. I'd ask you to zoom in on that. And the third question, a brief one, Minister, because this is how I came up with your comments in the debate on liberalism and Christianity. To what the Minister has said... 'Cause maybe I'll report a project like this. I'm referring to what the Minister said, discussing with Senator Wcisla. Perhaps it would be worth writing that this is a draft law on the Christian-national institute? Don't you think that would sound better after what you presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u328	Thank you. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Rybicki drew attention to Mr Glinski's statement addressed to the club of the Polish Gazeta. I can say the same thing as Prime Minister Gliński. I believe that the Polish Gazeta clubs are real civil society. They organized themselves, without government support or any institution, financed themselves, were active alone. The Polish Gazeta Clubs are a real civic organization, as are many others on our right-hand side of the socio-political scene as well as on others. The fact that the words were used in one case is a true civic organization... Well, I don't understand why we have to create a dichotomy here: true and false. Mr. Senator... Senator Libicki... [[But, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you for an answer. I asked how to qualify organisations that deal with issues of equality, freedom, tolerance...]] I'm not gonna judge any organizations in general right now. You mentioned one in particular, and I confirmed it, Senator. [[Senator, you didn't let the minister finish... please, Minister.]] Senator Libicki asked the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway about the Norwegian Fund. I will say this: the institute and its institutions will have the funds of this fund if the donor, in this case the Kingdom of Norway, gives it accreditation. And we're gonna do everything we can to get such accreditation granted, Senator. Senator Czarnobij... [[Voice from the room: Blackbay!]] [[Blackhead.]] Blackhead. [[Minister, please... you have such a frivolous style...]] [[Yeah, it's a little bit like that.]] [[Concentrate. My name is Blackbay.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] Blackhead. Forgive me, it's my fault. [[I forgive you.]] Senator Blackbay. [[Czudowska: Lipinski was just confused with Gliński and was also good...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you asked me to say that the support of smaller civil society organisations is only mentioned in one of the articles you mentioned, art. 24 or Article. 31. And I'm going to say this: one is about support, and the other is about support. As far as I'm concerned, Art. 31 is a clarification or an indication of how the general definition of support under Article is defined. 24 finds its implementation. There's no difference between me and the senator when it comes to assessing these rules. One speaks of support, and the other clarifies it. Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u330	Thank you very much. Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u331	Excuse me, Minister. I asked three questions, you answered one. I can repeat the others, but while I'm here, I'd like to keep my voice down a second time... I didn't say anything, I just asked I'm gonna say it again. In which the article contains support for small non-governmental organisations. Mr. Senator was talking about one thing, you were talking about another. I would ask you to dispel my doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u332	It's both, Mr. Senator. [[Both? Well, well, well. Very well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u333	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[But I didn't get an answer to two questions.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: If you could repeat, Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u334	Minister, I asked you about... Only this last question, the third question... regarding the first question I give up... given your thinking, speech and discussion with Senator Wcisła, I asked whether it would be appropriate to amend this law so that the institute would be called a Christian-national institute. In my opinion, it'll be closer to what you said. Do you think it's a good idea or a bad idea? Because I don't know what to do or report... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u335	You're welcome, Minister. After all, the senator can also make such an amendment. [[But I want to make sure what the Minister says.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u336	My answer is this: no, this amendment should not be tabled. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, another round of questions. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u338	Minister, before I ask a question, I'm shocked by your pride. You put yourself above the authority of professors, scientists, creators of a Polish dictionary, create your own definitions of concepts and introduce them into state laws as a representative of the state. But that's what I'm gonna talk about. And now I'd like to ask you what I asked you before. How is it that the Institute will be able to commission tasks correctly through an open competition of different entities, but will also be able to carry them out on its own without applying any criteria? What are they gonna be like... Who will decide which tasks will have to be commissioned and which tasks will be carried out by the Institute at the discretion of... who? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u339	Thank you very much. Marshal Maria Paniczyk-Podziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u340	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, for a reason I asked the senator of the rapporteur whether the National Institute of Liberty, with such huge, broad powers, would have its branches or branches in the field. Why? Let's say that the patent If it's nicer: a citizen from the Lower Ustrzyk has a case to do with this center, but he doesn't want to e-mail or telephone it, maybe he can't even explain it. I know from my own experience that my constituents want to meet me personally on various matters, even though I have my employees, even though I have a lawyer, but they want to meet in person and they have the right to do so. And in this connection I ask: are you aware of how many cases of you, I apologize for the description, will flood when people from all over Poland begin to come to Warsaw with their problems? Because if they can't do it anywhere, only in Warsaw, then they'll have to come to Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u341	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. And Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u342	Minister, I've always appreciated this body, which is the Council of Public Interests. NGOs can really freely express their views there and shape an opinion shared with the government. Could you inform the High House of the opinion given by the Council of Public Interests about this law and how it was justified? That's the first... [[Thank you, Mr...]] Wait a minute. [[Good. There you go.]] That's the first question. Two. How can you justify it? Because none of the reporters did. That only selectively, some areas of the Public Benefit Act have been recorded as those which may be implemented under the rule of that law? And the third question. Minister, you said we were misleading, especially me, insisting that Art. 30 says that you will be able to manage the money yourself and freely, because really not much will change, because most Read: What was in the FIO will be realized in the competition. No, Minister, because this FIO law and its tasks you are transforming into a programme, and art. 30 for programmes. So either you don't know the bill, or you're trying to mislead us. Read it well. This will become a programme and will be implemented in accordance with the principles of the Article. 30. To end with the question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u343	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u344	As for the tasks allegedly commissioned by the Institute's Director himself, I have already been able to do so. I told you. I'd just like to ask the marshal to give the floor to Director Kaczmarczyk, who might be able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u345	Out of place, Mr. Director. You have to press...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! In accordance with the provisions of the Act on the National Institute of Freedom, the National Institute will be able to carry out tasks in the form of grants, grants to NGOs in the manner set out in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. He will also be able to carry out the tasks himself. The tasks themselves will only be able to be carried out if they are defined in a government programme, which will be adopted by the Council of Ministers, prepared by the Committee on Public Use and consulted with non-governmental organisations. The obligation to consult is mentioned in the Act on the National Institute of Freedom, where the tasks of the Committee for Public Use are mentioned. It states that the programmes prepared by the Committee must also be consulted by the Committee with non-governmental organisations. It is also mentioned by the provisions of the Council of Ministers Act which require government institutions to consult government programmes. On these government programmes, opinions will also have to be issued by the Council of Public Use Activities, which is clear from the powers of the Council set out in the Public Benefit Act. There is no possibility for the Institute's Director to act on his own without authorisation from the Government Programme adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[But the programs will be able to create themselves.]] [[Voice from the room: Yeah, I told you.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u347	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u348	As I understand it, the Director has partially answered the second of Senator Augustine's questions. And as for your Marshal's question... [[What was the opinion of the public benefit council?]] But before that was your Marshal's question... [[Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath.]] [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: I meant whether...]] I know, I know, I remember the long-distance troops. Everything is to be considered, Mrs. Marshal. We are aware that the scope of activity is very large and that is why new institutions are being created. This is also the reason why we are changing the institutional form of this activity. Everything is to be considered, we will learn from the Institute's activities. I do not speak in advance on this matter. I now return to Senator Augustine's question about the opinion of the Council of Public Use Activities. I know that the Council of Public Interests has expressed a negative opinion about the project, but I also know that for example. in Resolution No 58 of 1 February 2017, the Council of Public Use Activities expressed its satisfaction with the extensive consultations carried out on the draft law. Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, but the Director would like to speak on this. If you could give him the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u349	Please, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u350	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal... Resolution No 75 of the Council of Public Use Activities on the draft law states that the Board of Activities indicates that only an analysis of the implementation of the provisions of the proposed law will allow for an in-depth analysis of them. The Council therefore does not express its opinion on the content of the proposed law. There is, therefore, no... sometimes there is a negative opinion in the current debate. There's no such negative opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u351	Do you have anything else to add, Minister? [[Minister, I asked why only some areas were found and others were not...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u352	Yes, yes, but in my opinion, the basic area, the competition procedure, was based on... [[That was another question. The Minister doesn't understand the question, I'm sorry.]] [[Come on!]] [[Voice from the room: Come on!]] [[But let me finish the minister. Maybe you'll get a satisfactory answer.]] [[I didn't mean to offend the Minister. It's just not an answer.]] Well, maybe... [[Minister, please.]] We can make an appointment that I didn't understand your question, Senator. [[Voice from the room: No!]] Which areas do you think are not included in the Act? [[I don't want to enumerate them. Of the thirty few, there's only 11.]] I merely remind you that the law on public benefit activities is not delegated, but is still in force, its provisions are in force. [[These are exceptions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u353	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. The question is now asked by Senator Jarosław Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u354	Thank you very much. Minister, this is a fundamental question for me. Only if you could answer honestly because of the kind of knowledge, the ignorance of this bill, as I understand from what you said earlier, because you weren't working so hard on it... But that's not the point. I would like to ask where you see the role and place of NGOs in this project, in this bill. Tell me if you think that in all the bodies that are within the National Institute, there's a subjective place for the representatives of the third sector. Because I would like to point out the following. As you know, e.g. In the FIO procedure, there were independent experts, one of whom, as I recall, was the director here who evaluated the conclusions. They were representatives of NGOs. Today the director will do it through his own, I understand, employees. Have you ever heard of something that was very widely discussed, such as a trust fund, in which representatives of NGOs will decide how to share the accumulated funds, whether under the FIO or any other funds or programmes? Do you think that the empowerment of NGO representatives in this bill is anywhere to be seen? 'Cause I've got an absolutely huge problem with it, because I can't see it. And then... If your marshal will allow me, I'll accumulate these questions, then I won't speak again. You said, and you're not the only one who's consulted so widely. Again, why didn't you respond to the environmental appeal for a public hearing? After all, it was so easy and it could be realized. And I'll get back to one thing. I will return to what has already been discussed, namely the so-called. Norwegian fund. And I'd like to say yes. This is a huge amount, 809 million zlotys, if I recall correctly. And the Prime Minister of Norway quite clearly said that she did not agree that the government would have in this regard... that any government, Polish or otherwise, that any government would have something to say in this regard, not civil society, not NGOs. So do you not see here an absolute collision with what those who transfer these funds to Polish civil society say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u355	Thank you very much. And Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u356	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to go back to the preamble and to this wording the Polish state supports freedom and Christian ideals. Here it was already a question, but I think that maybe not quite precise, I will try to formulate it a little more precisely. If there is such a phrase as that which I have read, it means that the Polish State, and in this case this institution, will not support any goals limiting freedom and non-Christian. It's logical, isn't it? And now the question is: what are these Christian ideals? Who's gonna call it? 'Cause there's nothing in this case except to say, Decalogue... Well, that's disparaging. And do you, for example? organizations spreading knowledge of human sexuality, trying to get students to learn that kind of knowledge... They are being exterminated by the government today because they do not implement these Christian ideals in this matter. Similarly, when it comes to e.g. organisations that promote tolerance and knowledge of LGBT individuals. So my question is this: which clerk 'Cause some clerk's gotta do it. He will determine which ideals are Christian and which are unchristian? Oh, one more thing I'm gonna say. Regarding the preamble to the Constitution I'm her co-author. The wording there was as follows. You referred to it at some point... Namely: we are grateful to our ancestors, among others. for a culture rooted in the Christian heritage of the nation and human values. We cared very much not to stand out, negative or positive. Well, if it were said here that the Polish state supports Christian and general ideals, it would be a reference to the recitals. And if that is not the case, then my question is valid: which official will define it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u357	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u358	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have one short question for a quick answer. Are you in the Senate of the Republic of Poland for the first time as a representative of the Ministry at this time... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: No.]] No. Good. Thank you very much. Then I have a question about the bill. Among the people who are here, most are people who have won this Polish, as you know, democracy, whether on the left or on the right, so that friends and we here... Our goal is to keep this democracy going. If you are listening to these questions, you will notice that this party that we represent thinks that this law will be against the thinking that led us to freedom. And now I have such a short question. I myself used, as the director of the theatre and head of the NGO, the funds granted through... well, through the system. Please... [[Question, Mr. Senator. The question is, it'll be easier...]] Please tell me whether the inclusion in the bill of the solution that a president so important for democracy of the institutions is calling, and not emerging through a competition, is not a hit on democracy. Because it would be perfect and purer if this law were to pass, so that this director would be selected in a competition in which representatives of all these organizations, including those who protest, would take part. That's my opinion. What's the point... What decided there was no contest?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u359	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u360	Senator Duda asked for the place of a representative of social organizations in the institute's system. I would just like to remind you that representatives of social organisations will take part in the work of the Council of the Institute in the number of people 5 and this number has also been increased in the course of the work on the Law on the same rights as all other members of the Council. That's what you're talking about. [[Will there be a co-chairman?]] And that already depends on the decision inside the council actually, so I can't declare anything specific. You also asked, Mr. Senator, about a public hearing. That's the question. Not to me, just to... It concerns the procedure of parliamentary work, so I cannot refer to that. About the Norwegian fund... Well, at this point, all we have is a media statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, and it's hard to take this as an official position... [[If that's what the country's prime minister says...]] We have noted this fact, we have noted this fact, calmly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Marek Borowski asked again about the preamble. I don't understand, Senator, why are you here? And you're not the only one who showed up. in many statements about this recital, which we have been discussing so long and lively It draws Christian values in front of parentheses from the entire catalog. Read carefully, carefully: the free and Christian ideals of citizens and local communities, including the tradition of Polish intelligence, the tradition of independence, national, religious, socialist, which may also be important for the senator. And the tradition of the folk movement. I consider it an unlawful claim that this criterion is fundamental. It is very important and, of course, complements the catalogue to a very significant extent, but it is not exclusive, Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u361	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u362	Could you change the way the Marshal conducts his deliberations and remind the Minister that he is in the Senate and his views on senators' views are irrelevant in the debate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u363	Mr. Senator, this doesn't fit in the catalogue of formal applications. [[Doesn't it fit? And is it a good custom, Mrs. Marshal?]] Mr. Senator, we're back on the agenda. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr Senator, I argue with opinions. I think it's obvious.]] [[I asked if you were in the Senate for the first time. Well, you're addressing...]] Quiet, please. [[Guys, guys...]] You're welcome. [[Thank you very much, but I'm not offended.]] Quiet, please. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: But in no way did I want to offend your marshal.]] [[Bravo. That's it.]] Do you have anything else to add, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: At this moment, that's all.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u364	Minister, as far as tradition is concerned, all that is mentioned there, i.e. about the tradition of the folk movement, socialist and other... Well, that refers to a certain past. When it comes to non-governmental organisations that somehow promote various historical events, etc., it is understandable. But to the tradition of movement e.g. Socialist, it is difficult to include tolerance and knowledge of LGBT people. This is a new phenomenon and it does not belong to any tradition. You can't shove it all into one bag. Unfortunately, in a situation where Christian ideals emerge, the question arises as to who interprets which ideals are Christian and which are not. The NGO comes and the official says: it is unfortunately incompatible with the ideals given; we do, and it is not otherwise written in the preamble, and we will not take it into account. And then comes another organization, one that has a Christian title, and of course it necessarily comes first, because this is what the preamble says. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u365	Of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u366	Mr. Marshal, the preamble, as the law teaches, is an auxiliary institution. She's just helping with interpretation when there's doubt. I repeat: I disagree with the fact that referring here to Christian values... I repeat that they are set here on an equal basis with the values of freedom. I don't think it's any kind of exclusion. Senator Fedorowicz asked about how to appoint a national director of the institute. Mr Senator, most of the tasks of the Institute or the Secretary of the Committee are currently carried out by the Minister responsible for social security. He is, of course, appointed as a result of certain democratic procedures, but these are not competition procedures either, Senator. [[But the government isn't...]] Mr. Senator, there are certain criteria that will apply to the appointment of a person. In my opinion, this guarantees the proper performance of the tasks by the Institute's director.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u367	Thank you very much. [[I don't agree with that, but that's fine.]] Senator Jan Libicki. There you go. Then Senator Nutchowska. [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u368	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, two cases. One. I would like to return to the question of the Prime Minister of Norway's speech. Well, all I'd like to say is that in May 2014. Norway has suspended, so to speak, the transfer of Norwegian funds to Hungary and has only unlocked this in December 2015, when the Hungarian Government removed all the elements to which the Norwegian Government had reservations. And my first question is this: did you analyze this Hungarian example and, in that case, if you say that you will seek accreditation, you have removed, so to speak, in advance, what raised doubts about the Norwegian Government? And the second point is this. At the committee meeting, Minister Lipiński spoke to him, so maybe it's more of a question for him, but since you're replacing him, then... Here's the deal. On the one hand, Minister Lipiński spoke about the fact that this is a technical law, which concerns only a fragment of the funds that are transferred to NGOs, so he does not know what all this noise is about, and on the other hand he said that there has been a very broad consultation with NGOs. How would you explain that, on the one hand, you say that this is a small technical change, and on the other hand, you say that there is a very broad consultation with NGOs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u369	Thank you. Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to know how many NGOs have complained that they have not yet had access to any funds and now have a chance to obtain them. And is the Minister able to assess what this percentage looks like?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u371	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you. So that was the last question tour. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u372	Senator Jan Filip Libicki's question. We are familiar with the circumstances of the suspension of the Norwegian Fund for Hungary, which was subject to our analysis, i.e. We've been analyzing it and we're going to analyze it. And your question merely confirms that it is possible to discuss this issue in substance, including with a Norwegian donor. I do not know what Minister Lipiński has said, but my opinion on this law is: it is a technical law, a very important technical law. It is a very important technical law and as such it has been consulted widely, in various forms, also in the form of those meetings which are indicated here, presenting our law. And I doubt that Minister Lipiński in any way depreciated the meaning of this law, because it is very important. As far as Senator Orzechowska's question is concerned, I will allow myself here to declare the answer in writing. I don't have that kind of knowledge right now, but I'm sure we'll get it and hand it over to you in the right way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u373	Okay, I'm opening the discussion. Minister, thank you very much. And please, has anyone signed up for the vote? Yes. You're welcome. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! State Representatives of NGOs! The Minister said a moment ago that it was a technical law. No, it's not a technical act. This is an ideological bill. It's a bill that should be a red light for all of us, and one thing for all of us, and on the other side. Because this is a law that not only undermines the whole direction of thinking about the third sector, which has been in force since Poland regained independence, but also goes in the opposite direction than the one in which it goes, which is for us many examples of the democratic society of the West. This bill is another bill that redirects us from the West to the East. This law does not fit into the ideas we had about democratic Poland when we dreamed of it as young boys and girls in the 1970s. We dreamed of democratic Poland. We read a lot, learned a lot and knew that free Poland must be democratic, that there is no free Poland without democratic Poland. Moreover, from such readings as the works of Alexis de Tocqueville, we learned about what it was like in America and others. What it's like in western Europe. And we knew that for Poland to be democratic, it must be a strong civil society built from the bottom up, strong citizens' initiative, strong people's activity. And the state should stay as far away from this civil society as possible, creating only and exclusively conditions guaranteeing its development, legal conditions, financial conditions which will give citizens the chance to demonstrate, pursue their aspirations, join together at their discretion, etc. And suddenly it turns out that we find a bill in the Seym and the Senate, which was supposedly consulted, and it wasn't, as if it were an expression. The right thing to do, the right thing to do. The diagnosis of the current state of Polish civil society, but instead of treating problems, it increases them. Instead of helping citizens and Polish civil society, it divides them. The biggest problem of this law is that it divides Polish civil society, that divides NGO into better and worse sort according to the division which was already drawn several months ago. Moreover, over those who come, they will put their heads in ashes and lay hands on representatives of political power, power will bow down, they will be considered theirs and they will be supported financially, and others will be excluded. That's why the so-called. The National Freedom Institute is really If you were to decipher its name The institution of supervision and exclusion. I repeat: the supervision of civil society and the exclusion of those for whom the ideals of freedom are important and who will not submit to political power and will not allow any rich master, in this case the PiS, to rule over them. This law acts as an instrument for non-governmental organisations. This law makes them a kind of transmission belt between power and the citizen. They become a means to achieve the goal, not an end in themselves. Finally, this law, as a result of non-transparent rules for the allocation of funds, because they will be opaque, will promote some and exclude others. That is why I am talking not only about supervision, but also about exclusion. All those whose activities are not in line with the current government's profile will be excluded will be put out of line. Moreover, those who are excluded will have no chance because the PiS is a country that interferes with civil society. Other financial sources will also be gradually eliminated. I am very interested in what players will be preferred in this regard. I have been thinking about this a lot and after examining the speeches of important law and justice politicians, e.g. Mr Glinski's statements, I am convinced that these will be the Polish Gazeta clubs. Mr. Prime Minister on December 18 to the supporters of the Polish Gazeta Clubs gathered at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw said: "You are real Polish civil society, and Mr. Kolarski listed his own in March 2016 as I assume, preferred in the future. Organizations: Election Control Movement, Polish Gazeta Clubs, Radio Maryja family. This does not mean that these environments are in any way excluded from access to public funds. This is about everyone having equal chances. The point is that once again, the state will create conditions for the development of non-governmental organisations, not pulling strings, pulling one up and throwing the other down. Such a country is a country that departs from the ideals of civil democracy. A country like this is a country that takes us all back a few dozen years. And that is why I believe that this law in the next segment restores the traditions of the Polish People's Republic, just as the tradition of the Polish People's Republic was restored when the government took control of media that were once public. They're not public anymore, they're government. This tradition of the Polish People's Republic has also been restored with a radical increase in the powers of the Prosecutor General. This tradition of the Polish People's Republic is restored by successive laws which subject the independent judiciary to political power. And that's why this bill is to be rejected. I have the impression that for those who support it, it will be a shame, because in the future this law will analyse in schools and universities as an example of laying the feet of developing civil society in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u375	Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with historical themes. When the Tsar Peter I traveled around Europe, he was extremely fascinated by the fact that in France and England, and in various other countries, groups of citizens were gathering to discuss politics. It was extremely interesting because in Russia, which he knew, he never met with such a phenomenon. When he returned to Russia, he wanted to root this institution in his own country, which he ruled, and he issued a Tsar's ban, which perfectly reflects his approach and how he wanted to transplant British and French designs to Tsar Russia. Namely, the order had the title: "On the compulsory organisation of voluntary political meetings. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] That reminds me, sir, because we also know the Minister because I used to be in the P.I.S. I remember this meeting with President Kaczyński in 2007, when the Civic Platform won an election where President Kaczyński said that... [[What year?]] 2007. [[Oh, yeah, 2007. It's history.]] ...Citizen's platform won the election because as a party it had factions. And President Kaczyński advised us then, including me, to create a faction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You don't remember, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean? In the PiS?]] Yes. Well, both this case of Tsar Piotr I and the statement of President Kaczyński show a philosophy of this law, which we are proceding today. For us, both voluntary political meetings and factions within the party are certain institutions that are created spontaneously and naturally within certain needs. Civil society does the same. People are organizing because there's a need, there's a purpose. Meanwhile, I get the feeling that when we talk about the National Freedom Institute The Center for Civil Society Development is dealing with this philosophy that I was just talking about. The authors of this law believe that civil society can be organised from the top. And so many historical threads. I still want to say this: I think there are many things that have worked out in Poland, but there are two of them closest to me. The first is self-government and the second is non-governmental organisations that support people with disabilities. I'm from a small town myself. When I moved there in 1973, this village had 240 inhabitants. If parents with a disabled child, in this case my parents wanted help, they had the closest to Poznan, because there were few NGOs. Today I am a senator from the district, which consists of 6 districts and 28 municipalities, and in each of these districts and in 90% The municipalities are non-governmental organisations to which parents with a disabled child can turn and ask for support. And this is the achievement of the last 30 years. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because there is concern among these organizations about how they will function when we adopt this law. These people think it's not a target solution. This is the beginning of a process where all the funds that go to support NGOs, including those that help people with disabilities, will be subject to one central division. I share these concerns, but it's not important that I share them. It is more important that these organisations have such concerns. It is in the interest of the authors of this law to convince these organizations that this will not be the case. I think you have a difficult task, but you should try to do it if you really believe what you're saying here. There are various concepts in this bill that raise my doubts. It goes on for example. for the sustainable development of civil society. What do you mean by that? Is it that large organizations dominate the small ones? Yes, while we are talking about this, it is indeed such a problem that a small organization from a small village sometimes has more difficulty than a large professional entity. You can see that at least in the 1% range. But is this imbalance just about that? How do you intend to balance this situation? The second question concerns the improvement of this institutional efficiency of NGOs. Again, the question is, what will it look like, what's behind that word? The state representing the creators of this law here says such an impression can be made That we somehow express some excessive concerns that the state has good intentions. But we, as I said in my speech, passed here a law on the Polish National Foundation. Her goals were good, too. It was said that we will promote Poland abroad, that it will work for our brand. Well, what's the first action this foundation's ever known? Is this a promotion? Polish outside? And if it's a promotion Polish outside, I ask: is this a good promotion? Well, we'll probably have different opinions here again, but in my deepest conviction, it's not a good promotion. Therefore, it is really hard to be surprised that this example of the foundation makes us as negative as possible about the bill discussed here. Now I have to show you something that I received here from one of the representatives of NGOs. This is a sketch of how it is today when it comes to the distribution of funds, and what it will be like when the Institute of Freedom is established. And I'm gonna appeal to my past experience again. Because I looked at this pattern and I knew what it reminds me of. Well, if we look at this pattern, we'll see that there are a lot of bodies with overlapping powers. And you don't really know who's in charge of this whole thing. This scheme reminds me of the statute of the Law and Justice Party. There's a lot of big inefficient bodies out there whose powers overlap each other. The president's in charge of all of this. You have the right to do so because this is your statute. But don't run non-governmental organizations like that. I'm asking you very much. And finally, finally... [[Applause]] [[Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] No, last but not least... [[Exactly.]] [[But don't disturb me, Mr. Senator, the senator...]] [[But they're the ones who are bothering with the applause.]] I just want to say that with this bill, it's just like with a lot of things that we're investigating in this term: that the diagnosis of certain bad things that are happening is at many moments and in many parts right, but the treatment of this disease is very often worse for the patient than the disease itself. And it seems to me that we are dealing with this situation here, for example, with this example that I mentioned in my questions, which is an example of the Norwegian funds. I hope so. I'd really like that. I'm wrong, but I'm afraid that, unfortunately, all the doubts I have expressed here will actually come true when this bill will work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u377	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll have Senator John Duda now. And I'd like to tell Mr. Senator that as far as this medical diagnosis is concerned, you're wrong because surgery is very often... [[Invasive.]] ...invasive to the patient, but I guarantee you that patients feel much better about her in many cases, or at least definitely... [[I would very much like the marshal to be right.]] Operations need to be performed. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Senator Jarosław Duda. [[Mr. Marshal, I never...]] But we're not discussing it anymore. Please... [[I wasn't a souffler.]] ...don't disturb the senator... Senator Jan Duda now. [[Jarosław.]] Jarosław? [[Yes. I have a good name and a good name, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, I didn't know it was Jaroslaw. That's interesting. [[Generalissimos almost.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u378	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Third Sector Representatives! In the Polish Constitution there is a key principle, which I am a huge fan, namely the principle of subsidiarity. I define it for my own use as follows, and I would like to share this definition with you. This is how I understand it: as far away as it is necessary, and as far as civil society, NGOs, is as far away as possible. Unfortunately, in my view, the bill we are pursuing has nothing to do with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the Constitution. This is a return to what Senator Bogdan Klich said: to the times of real socialism, when there were theoretically strong states, weak citizens and zero intermediate structures. This law, ladies and gentlemen, on the National Institute of Liberty is a kind of earthquake in the sphere of public benefit. As you know, no one asks for an earthquake. And none of the environment expected Did very few expect That's the change. In my many years of experience of cooperation and co-chairing the Council of Public Use Activities, this direction has never been revealed. There have never been such demands, no one has formulated them. Here's something that hasn't been consulted and hasn't been agreed. Unfortunately, as has been the case lately in your 2-year edition, you do things your way, without asking interested persons, and ruining at the end what you found as decent and efficient. This law completely changes the forms of government dialogue with organised society, with organised citizens and distributes public funds to the civil sector in a completely new way. Cooperation with NGOs in this form has continued, I will remind you, since 2003, when the groundbreaking law on public benefit activities and voluntary activities was passed. So this cooperation also continued in your governments. This law has been amended several times, consulted, often in a large democratic dispute, and I have experienced it personally. ..so that cooperation with the third sector can be done as transparent and beneficial as possible for citizens. And these amendments have always been based on the needs of NGOs and have been seriously agreed with the organisations. It's about to change. And it will change in a way that an environment, a significant part of the organization has never called for, never reported and never even initially discussed it. You make this bill, ladies and gentlemen, against the citizens. And you can see that after a terrible way of consulting, during which the non-governmental party repeatedly talked about feeling completely disregarded by the government. The extraordinary finality of these consultations was to make an unbelievable, reprehensible thing, namely a radical change of the principles of the law after the consultation process, if that can be called a consultation process. Thus, citizens consulted one project and a completely different project went to Parliament. This is the purest example of what your campaign slogan about listening to people really means. Of course, you say you vote for those who have been excluded and ignored. That is, as I understand it, associations related to Law and Justice. Except that's also not true, because those organizations that had their colors were often consulted, and I can give examples. Now non-transparent decisions will be able to receive public grants for, I understand, party events, the essence of this law is the transfer of funds from the Civil Initiative Fund. It would even correspond to the fact that it is technical, but only in this dimension. Because I absolutely agree with the previous statements that the nature of this law is strict ideological, really fully ideological. So the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to the board I apologize for the term "political assistants" of Prime Minister Gliński. Instead of years of transparent procedures, arbitrary decisions will be made. This is the withdrawal of Poland from Western world standards in Eastern authoritarianism. And yet, quite seriously, your fellow Members urge that, like Putinian Russia, organisations using foreign funds should be designated in order to distinguish foreign agents. Your TV's running a raid on selected organizations, and you just haven't managed to take over the Norwegian funds yet. So it looks like this is just the beginning of the civil sector pacification. And the Freedom Institute, like Orwell, will have exactly the opposite of the name. Another is not true that this law strengthens this sector. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're weakening it by dividing the previous competences between the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy into the Institute of Freedom, the NAP and leaving the remaining responsibility in the Ministry. Thus, no one will feel like hosting a dialogue with the civil sector. Competences remain blurred, and for the organization it will be illegible and difficult to cooperate, which I think you probably mean. Is the public benefit model in Poland perfect? Of course it's not. But the things that need improvement, you don't want to take care of and you don't take care of them. So you're not dealing with controversy around 1%, you're not strengthening dialogue by complementing the Social Dialogue Council with representatives of the third sector, you're not building youth policy, and you're not, after all, increasing spending on NGOs. The area of public benefit has never been the subject of global criticism. The necessary corrections, increasing participation and strengthening the organisation's position in the dialogue with the authorities, and increasing the budget and catalogue of tasks carried out by NGOs seemed clear. That would seem to be the key priorities. What are you doing instead? Most NGOs through this law will be excluded, and it is those organisations that have built this sector over the years that have been its key actors. It has been disrupting the completely existing governance of the country's dialogue with the third sector for over 13 years. It is dangerous for non-governmental organisations themselves, which may be excluded from receiving public funds completely discretionaryly. It also raises the opposition of local government officials. No data-based reason for implementing this law has been formulated. There is no need to justify it, nor is there any purpose for which the law should become the law in force. Sorry to put it this way, but it seems that the only motive for setting up an institute of freedom is to shift the task of managing the funds of the Civil Initiative Fund from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to some faction of the PiS-owska which will be strengthened in a special way for its established institution. I'm sure that's a good change for this faction. For all the other citizens, it's a terrible change. To conclude, I would like to say that civil society will not fall from this. And paraphrasing at the end of a well-known statement, I will say that it will probably be a comma in its development, it is a waste of wasted time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u379	Who's next? Last speaker, right? Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Then I'm gonna announce a half-hour break. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start with three elements to refer to what happened today in this Chamber, which is indirectly related to the draft law. Firstly, I would like to thank your marshal for allowing representatives of NGOs to listen quietly, culturally to the discussion on the vital interests of the area they are dealing with. Turns out you can and you can't be the scary devil they paint on public television. Secondly, I would like to say that in this discussion... [[Yeah, you can.]] ...that's been running around here... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and in the case of questions asked to Senator Majer and later to the Minister, you saw the following: a law that completely revolutionizes all of this about the functioning of the NGO... For Mr. Majer, it's an art. 24. The Minister says that maybe it's actually an art. 31. Well, seven pages doesn't matter, or actually both... Ladies and gentlemen, such substantive ignorance is me, being the sixth year in the Senate, I have not seen. After all, it is below any criticism and it is not appropriate in this way to present the draft law, Ladies and Gentlemen, in the Polish Senate. And one last remark, personal. Minister, a few hours earlier, Minister Szmit presented a difficult subject concerning road infrastructure and I personally thanked the Minister for knowing what he knew that he was speaking without shoes, without hovering and all that is called a certain shoe of power. Well, I'm sorry to say I can't count you as one. I'm skipping the name because the most important thing in life isn't how they judge you, it's so they don't turn the names. You set an example of what is going to happen to NGOs. The man who is to have in his capacity co-ordination, ability to cooperate, openness, goes out into the bleachers and shows: "This is how we will now approach non-governmental organisations. And you, Mr Wcissly, have this liberal definition hidden away and learn what the liberal definition is, etc. This creates a foretaste of this, ladies and gentlemen, how the power of the people will translate into the actions of the Law and Justice. Now, a few words about the investigation into the bill... a lot was said here about the consultation, and I'm not gonna say it again. Minister, read the reports and the president... What kind of consultation was that? Nobody called it a consultation. 98% I received this information from Senator Duda. It was negative that it was not a consultation. A clerk or a clerk arrived who said, "This is how it's going to be, and if you don't like it." - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, You can write that you don't want any more money. Because they said, "How positive is it?" It's gonna be more money. There you go, it's called supporting small organizations, because the Freedom Institute, a government organization that oversees NGOs, directs them, takes care of them and settles them... I mean, it's enough to create. Only the Ministry of Love and Orwell would say: 'I only wrote fiction, but there were great followers.' I'm gonna mark the government institution again. It oversees NGOs, settles them, sets them in directions, etc. I'll read here that there are countries... And that's the pattern. Big country, big country. He's got a powerful warden... sorry, president. His name is Russia. These are the patterns, ladies and gentlemen. These are the exact patterns. Now that we're talking about opinions, I'd like to know if it's an organization that works in the third sector at all... Have you read the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation? We can say, as Senator Majer said, how often we have heard in cases concerning whether the Court... Well, even a highly respected professor as chairman of the committee said: 8 negative opinions These are just opinions. And that there were eight and all negative? But there's one positive. From Nowogrodzka. That's a very important opinion. You, as Senators of Law and Justice, get off your knees, go so straight to this civil society... in Novgorodka. And there will be real civil society. And the NGOs that work today are supposed to operate according to the same system. Now a few quotes. I was fascinated by the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation, in which we read this: we are seeing the symptoms of a shrinking civil society in some European countries. It is simply citizens who believe that there should be no non-governmental organisations in the country, because these are pseudo-governmental organisations. The Foundation points out here five elements that prove it. Just answer the question... I specifically address this to the Senators of Law and Justice. Ask yourselves what you're voting on so you know. This is not an institute of freedom. It is an institute of slavery for NGOs. This foundation writes: firstly, the symptom of shrinking citizenship is that even in a very drastic way the atmosphere of insinuation and accusations against the organization is created. I mean, we've been through it. Right? Some treasonous and other... those were the terms, epithets about these organizations. This climate has already been created in public space, and it has been said: these are bad organisations and we need to change them; if they are supervised by us, they will not be so bad. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the symptom of a shrinking civil society is the adoption of legislation which significantly reduces the independence of these organisations. An example? The Institute of Freedom of the Muzzle for NGOs. And this is where the foundation gives examples. The Hungarian system introduced a law, so-called. lex NGOs, which drastically reduced the number of NGOs. And an example that you often take in your actions... Act of 2012 from Russia Any organization that has not received approval of power and has yet used international money has been considered a spy organization. There you go, still going further... Well, we're missing it. I'm gonna cut... The recent symptom of the decline in the scale of non-governmental organisations is the persecution of non-governmental organisations. I mean, these activists are gonna say, "Why do I have to do this?" It's not enough that I involve my whole family, my whole life, I involve myself, they're still haunting me. Well, you're very encouraging this activity... I didn't hear Philip talking about it, I'm sorry, but I saw him showing it. Hang this in your parliamentary offices. Please, this is how we simplified the decision-making process for civil society organisations... What I'm saying is, the first one that's currently... I have a lot of reservations about him, too. When I was a young man in the early 1990's when I looked at what is called civil society in countries like Germany and Sweden, I created myself an idée fixe: the fewer officials, the fewer politicians in many cases, the better for society. You're going exactly the opposite way. I mean, you can do... Yes, there's a question of how to... I'm sure it's not what you're suggesting. Almost four million... sorry, four million zlotys you're giving to oversee NGOs. I'd like to tell you. I give dollars against nuts that if we announce a competition and give NGOs half of this amount, they would do it ten times better with regard to reporting, analysis, etc. But no, we need 60 officials... Yeah, I'm sure some of your suggestions are gonna drop by this 60th. And what, will there be a Polish citizen, will there be a Polish family? It will be! Real Polish citizen-family. This must be done in a simple way: by means of an open competition, look for a non-governmental organisation that will pursue government objectives, open objectives; create a simple, clear reporting procedure and bring its role to supervision so that it can answer the question whether the organisations are meeting these objectives well. This is how the most civic countries in Europe work. And you're the other way around, just like everything else. Best in Warsaw, best from Warsaw, best from Nowogrodzka. And best of all, as all organizations will submit to one module. I want to say that not only Orwell, but also the marshal sitting here and many people of the Polish opposition, I look here at Senator Rooster... I'm 100% I'm sure, and that's what I'm going to preach, Mr. Stanislaw, my sympathetic law and justice buddy: not for this Polske you fought for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u381	Thank you very much. You fit in... [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] Excuse me? Ah, Minister. I'm sorry, but... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Ad vocem to the senator.]] You're welcome. Ad vocem can always be, and Mr. Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Can I have one?]] No. However, I ask you from the speaker, because that is our custom, Minister, with us in the Senate. [[Just don't insult me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u382	Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal, with your permission... [[You're welcome.]] Mr. Senator, once again, I would like to apologize for your mistake in your name. I see it touched you. [[No, absolutely not.]] I have a name that's often twisted myself, so please understand... And the other thing. I am very sorry that you have interpreted my patient translations about the fact that we do not want to exclude anyone, that we do not want to apply criteria that exclude social organisations from having their place and in consultation, and at the stage of creating new institutions, as shoes and arrogance. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u383	Thank you very much. I declare, ladies and gentlemen, a recess until 8:30 p.m. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling the Senior Convention. I'll start the convention meeting at 20.10. Now, please, Mr. Secretary, let's hear the news.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u384	Two messages. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law amending the Law of Criminal Procedure will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment in room 176. Second message. A joint meeting of the Committee on National Self-Government and Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the consideration of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management and some other laws will be held today following the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-senat-47-4.u385	Thank you very much, Senator. We're adjourned until 8:30. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 02 to 20 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare a recess until the day... Oh, I'm telling you that at my request, the Senior Convention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to leave the room and not record interviews here, okay? At my request, we'll extend the session by tomorrow. I have the approval of the Seniors Convention. There was one vote of objection. And that's what I'm gonna do. Right now, I'm announcing a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 31]]
