ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU COM ((2017)253. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and is included in print No 520 and the committee's report In print No 520 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to report on the meetings of the two committees. First there was a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, and then there was a meeting of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which examined this legal act. In fact, this draft directive is the first legislative act to be drawn up within the framework of the concept of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Its main objective is to implement the principle of equality between men and women in terms of employability and treatment in the workplace. It is also intended to enable parents and other caretakers to better reconcile work and care obligations. The directive, which Brussels is proposing at the moment, contains a number of regulations, which in fact in Polish almost already have been successfully implemented and implemented for years, among others. It is proposed: introducing paternity leave, strengthening the role of parental leave, introducing nursing leave, extending the possibility of using flexible forms of work for working parents caring for children up to 12 years of age, for workers who are seriously ill, introducing solutions from so-called. equality directives, prohibition of discrimination, protection against dismissal and the burden of proof, sanctions, protection against negative treatment, the extension of workers' rights. In general, it must be said that the committees at the meetings improved the legitimacy of family-friendly policies, which should be implemented with great enthusiasm in all European countries. However, attention has been drawn It is as if the most important reason for today's decision on the non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive is that the directive is substantially and very profoundly entering the powers of the national states in the field of national law. In particular, as I draw your attention to, in this opinion, which the committees have drawn up and presented, it is pointed out that the most striking example of excessive interference in Member States' legal systems is the provision prohibiting the transfer of at least 4 months of parental leave to a second parent. It means that in the first year after birth, parents will no longer be able to exchange freely in child care, because if a man does not benefit from 4 months of leave, some of it will be lost. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in today's Polish law we have such a situation that from this 12-month period which combines maternity and parental leave, both the father and the mother of the child, the carers of this child can use interchangeably. According to the proposal for a directive that we are currently discussing, this interchangeability will not be entirely possible, i.e. The directive forces fathers to use at least 4 months of this 12-month period when parents stay with their children. If your father doesn't use those four months, those four months are just gone. So as if EU regulation goes against national law, which is more flexible at the moment, because now both mother and father can take advantage of this holiday. Because these records, in the opinion of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but also in the opinion of the committee, reverse our legal regulations, make them more rigid and thus seriously restrict the rights of our citizens to use, for example. of this parental leave, the joint committees propose that the High Senate adopt an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers, which at the same time repeals Council Directive 2010/18/EU COM ((2017)253. That's what I recommend to you, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Richard Majer to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u4	Senator, please tell me: did the committee's meeting present the figures on how many fathers use this opportunity to take parental leave instead of their mother, and for what average period is it taken?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u5	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u6	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Swed, as part of his inquiries, replied that in the case of parental leave... Because it has to be distinguished. What we have in Polish law under the name of paternity leave, i.e. those paid 2 weeks that every father can use, is used by 53% of fathers. And that is, if you take into account the fact that this is a recent regulation, as it seems, a lot. On the other hand, the parental leave itself, which happens after this period, i.e. later months, when parents can exchange, so far benefits 1% Fathers. However, as the Ministry of the Family emphasized, this was also due to the discussion at the committee meeting, first of all, because these are recent regulations, i.e. these daciers' leave is in Polish law a relatively fresh solution, and secondly, from the family model, which still operates in Poland, a model in which care for the child is attributed in the first period of his life mainly to his mother. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u7	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Antoni Szymanski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Would the senator agree with the view that the introduction of this directive would be in the best interests of minors? In a situation like this... You explained that at the moment 1% My dad's taking this vacation. It can be assumed that this would increase slightly, but a large part of fathers, for various reasons, not because they are reluctant to take care of their children, but mainly because of the organisation of work, will give up this holiday. Then the child would lose custody for four months. And the main person affected by this directive would be a minor child.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u9	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u10	Thank you so much for that question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The conclusion of Senator Szymanski is absolutely right. Indeed, reducing flexibility in the free approach to parental leave by both parents under Polish conditions would mean really losing 4 out of 12 months. Of course, it would lose a minor child, but it would also lose a whole family who takes care of and raises a child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u11	Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the draft opinion presented? If so, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say that I support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u13	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Mr. Senator Borowski. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u14	Minister, I understand that it would be risky to rapidly introduce the principle of child mobility within a minimum of 4 months and would indeed result in some loss of the benefits of 12-month care. It would be to the detriment of the child. My question is this: does the resort you represent carry out any work in this area, and does it intend to gradually extend the mandatory period for each parent? If you don't do it, that's 1%. that we have learned about will be a steady achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u15	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since September 2016, the Labour Law Codification Commission has been in operation. I'll remind you that we're talking about regulation, which is currently the subject of... the regulation contained in the labour code. The Labour Code Commission is working on systemic solutions, including solutions for Section VIII of the Labour Code, i.e. provisions for the protection of parental rights. This is a regulation that is, to a large extent, based on solutions adopted at EU law level. This is the case with the rules in force today. Let me remind you that parental leave is a solution introduced at the initiative of the European Union. I'm talking about the parental leave directive. I am the head of this codification committee and I can say that the suggestions of the EU codification committee include as one of the most important directions of the proposed solutions. And this element will also be taken into account. Of course, we are wondering how this idea, which is, let's say, the subject of today's discussion, that is, the idea of so-called. non-transferable part of parental leave, realize. This could be realized in different ways. This could be achieved, say, within this pool of parental leave, which is already included in the Labour Code today, but this would be at the expense of the powers which, as mentioned earlier, are used by 99% of working women, workers. It can be imagined that this idea is being realized by increasing the parental leave of the parent parent, but this, of course, involves very significant additional costs. You can also imagine realizing this idea in such a way that we increase the pool of parental leave, which is already relatively long in Poland. Right? We must bear in mind that we are somewhat ahead of the standards set by the European Union in the Parent's Vacation Directive. Theoretically, you can also imagine extending parental leave by such 4-month leave granted to both women and men, but as I said, this already entails far-reaching additional costs. So that we take these factors into account, however, as I said, with regard to our position on this draft resolution, we support this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u17	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u18	Minister, I am not in favour of doing this by extending my leave, not only because of the costs, but also because of the fall out of the labour market simply. Well, you could say the simplest... I understand, of course, the social problem here, but the simplest solution is that within these 12 months a certain non-transferable period should occur. Not immediately 4 months, but, let's say, a month. In a year's time or two years' time, it'll be two months, three years' time, four months' time, etc. Or that's the end of it. I mean, whether there's a plan or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u19	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u20	Of course, as I said, we are considering this kind of solution. After all, I was even talking about one of the possible scenarios of the fact that within this pool of parental leave there is a part that is not transferable. This is one possible solution. We are considering this solution, but we believe that the rules in force today provide greater flexibility, i.e. give the opportunity to use parental leave also by the father, but depending on the occupational situation, generally both parents. Because today it is true that parental leave is in a sense linked to maternity leave. As we look at the mode of parental leave, we will see that, in a sense, the first decision on who will benefit from parental leave is given to a woman, because the mother of the child during the first 21 days after birth has the opportunity to apply for full-time parental leave. And then this leave falls immediately after the end of maternity leave. In a sense, the rules lay down the principle that it is a woman who decides to use parental leave and, in principle, uses maternity leave, which not only serves to care for the child in the first life of the child, but also to regenerate after birth. We also have laws that allow a woman to withdraw from this original decision. This possibility of withdrawal is mainly conditioned by the professional situation. This occupational situation may change during the period of maternity or parental leave, and the spouses may therefore consider that a better option is a solution in which part of maternity leave, after the end of 14 weeks of maternity leave after birth and after the use of that part by the woman, can be used by the father of the child. The child's father can also use parental leave in such a situation. Today's rules offer great flexibility, but require consideration of the work situation and a certain agreement between spouses in this regard. We think it's a good solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u21	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will admit that I regard this draft directive as another attempt by the EU authorities to enter into the sphere of morals to which these bodies should not be allowed, because they move like an elephant in the composition of porcelain in this sphere. The attempt to create a unified society without gender, universal happiness against biology is visible here. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this have to do with the welfare of the child? I don't get it at all. This answer, of course, is correct in substance, but in my opinion it is too harsh. We should propose that the European Union go even further. Why can't a man be forced to breast-feed? We will finally start to level out the social roles of the various sexes. Minister, don't make excuses for the obvious. It's just that biology can't be changed. This biology is a source of moral facts. Fortunately for us, this is still organized normally. If the Union wants to go in some other direction, let the individual Western countries do so simply on their own, and let us be as far away from it as possible. And let's be a normal healthy society.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u23	Is the question... I understand it was just your opinion. [[There was a question mark at the end.]] Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome. And then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u24	Minister, two questions. As far as I am well aware of European realities, it is not so that if it is assumed that there must be a minimum of 9 months paid parental leave under the directive, it is a Member State it cannot introduce or maintain more favourable solutions. So if we have 12 months, we can have 12 months; we can't have less than 9 months. That's one thing. And I'd ask the Minister to address it. Of course, we can introduce more. And second question. What other countries have recognised the non-compliance of this directive with the principle of subsidiarity and what are the real chances of blocking it? Because there's the right rules to regulate it. How do you feel about these opportunities based on how other countries behave?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u26	I'll first address Senator Czerwinski's question. I think there might be further arguments. The situation... This is, in a sense, a directive that also applies to a certain family model implemented in individual countries. As we know, the family model varies from one Member State to another in the European Union. Right? There are countries where work and childcare obligations are, you can say, evenly spread between spouses, but there are also countries where a more traditional family model exists, in which there is no such symmetry, because the obligation to work is more dependent on the father, while mothers, also working, combine their work with the raising of children. So we look at the family model in Poland. Well, we're more of those countries where there's a traditional distribution of roles between the father and the mother of the child, so I think we need to consider this element. And one more thing I would like to draw your attention to, precisely in the context of the Senator's speech. It seems to me that we, in a sense, accept that certain solutions are being imposed by the European Union. After all, I was talking about the idea of parental leave as a result of the EU directive. She's been laid down in the Parent's Vacation Directive. However, we do not agree to the excessive detail of this EU regulation. And actually this resolution that we are debating today, as if it emphasizes that the expectations of the European Union with regard to the national legislator are simply excessive. This interference in EU law is too thorough. So that's how I would read the idea of the draft resolution. With regard to the question of Senator Augustine, it can, of course, be said that from the very content of this provision of the directive it is clear that we are talking in a certain sense about a standard of a semi-immimperative nature, i.e. a standard that gives the possibility to apply more favourable solutions in national law, but we must also be aware that this entails additional costs, and we have these costs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u27	Minister, I am sorry, but I had the impression that we were being tried to mislead when it was said that the adoption of the directive would force us to shorten our current leave. I do not agree with that claim.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u28	In fact, I cannot agree with this thesis because we are on the committee, also as far as the work in the Sejm is concerned, presented the position that it is possible... Besides, I just mentioned that it is possible to implement this directive in three ways. We can either do this or within this pot that we have written down in the code. At that time, it would be difficult to talk about some of the omnimperativity of these solutions. Or by introducing an additional leave of absence. We must also bear in mind that in this first solution this would be at the expense of the powers that women are generally using today. That's the way to look at it. [[Exactly.]] However, in the case of these two further possible scenarios, we are talking about additional costs in the order of up to PLN 3 and 6 billion per year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] And the question is... [[But the Minister didn't answer one important question.]] Does the Minister have any more... [[It's about other countries and the possibility of blocking...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Honestly, I have no information about this. We can give the senator an answer in writing.]] Thank you, Minister. And you ask Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that here there were very serious arguments which indicate that the directive would have very bad effects if it were applied in Poland. I agree, among other things. with Senator Czerwinski's statement, but at the same time I would like to stress my interest in having fathers get as involved in the care and life of their children from the beginning. Today we are discussing this problem, and tomorrow is Father's Day. This Father's Day indicates a very important relationship between the father and the child. And here I would like to ask whether you are providing for some soft action on this issue, for example. to promote the involvement of fathers from the beginning, from the birth of children in the care of them. I am not talking about those solutions that I have said critically about the directive. But I'm sure it's very important to involve fathers in caring, raising a child from the beginning. And here I allow myself to emphasize once again this Father's Day, which is tomorrow, which is important and should not be forgotten, because it reminds me of the important role, the basic role of every father.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u31	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I can talk about this for a long time, because you could look at this problem also from the historical point of view. If we were to look at the evolution of the rules of the Labour Code in Section Eight, and even the evolution of the title of this chapter... Let me remind you that initially section eight of the Labour Code was entitled "Women's Protection." And under these regulations we just had, among others. Regulation on maternity leave. It can be said that these provisions have been far-reaching since the mid-1990s. I mean, when we look at the title of chapter eight law today, we see that it already sounds like parental rights. The legislator clearly points out that not only working women but also fathers benefit from these provisions. This is not an empty idea, it is, you can say, a sign of evolution, which has also been followed by detailed provisions contained in Section Eight of the Labour Code. Even if we look at the very design of maternity leave, we will see that the possibility that the parent's father might use this leave has recently appeared. Another expression of this evolution was the idea of parental leave, which in principle is addressed to both parents. Father's leave, I'll remind you, this is a solution reserved exclusively for fathers raising a child. So that, as I say, this is an expression of support for this trend that you mention to the senator, a tendency to make sure that these rights are also exercised by fathers raising a child. Today's rules require cooperation between the mother of the child and the parent of the child and a certain agreement on which parents will exercise these powers. That's what I'd say. Of course, the very issue of promoting the use of these rights by fathers is covered by a broader normative context. Because this idea serves many other detailed solutions that are contained in the Labour Code, i.e. solutions, e.g. concerning certain unusual forms of employment, e.g. telework, which supports the combination of work and childcare, but also forms of work such as e.g. part-time work. As I say, this is a broader normative context. And I see in Poland, I would say, a deficit when it comes to using such unusual forms of employment that allow the role of the employee and the role of the parent of the child to be combined. We try to promote these solutions at every opportunity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u33	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators have another question for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We have considered this EU initiative and the Commission's position twice. First at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, later at the meeting of the Joint Committees. This first meeting took place about two weeks ago. There was a question about the extent to which fathers could take leave, and during this meeting the Minister committed himself to answering. This extensive reply was received in writing. I would very much like to thank you for this, because in the short term there was a comprehensive and good answer, which... she's the one who's complicated at all. In this sense, it is complicated that in recent years the rules have actually changed from year to year. Such situations are many and the statistical approach is not simple. By the way, the changes that broadened the possibilities of vacations were actually due to the activities and actions carried out by the Civic Platform, so we have something to show for it. They were going to expand. But in the statistical sense, it's hard to say, and actually the ministry did this statistic, which I have here on my tablet, so it narrowed down the age range, 20 and 39 years, which is reasonable. As it says, 94% births are included in this. I'd like to express my appreciation here... What is the result of these statistics? Namely, that during this period This is more or less because it has been mentioned for years since 2013, because it is simply not possible to conduct it very closely unless an extremely extensive document is made available on maternity leave to around 120 and 130 thousand mothers per year. From parental leave... The number of parental leave increases, but the rules have also changed because the additional part of maternity leave has passed That's 6 weeks on parental leave. So the statistics are about 120 and 150 thousand people, more or less, enjoying a year, but there are only 1.5 thousand men in that. That's the number I asked mostly. The use of parental leave by men is negligible. Besides, the Minister said it, and it was written. As far as paternity leave is concerned, according to these statements There's probably two last years in there. Some 15,000 people use them. And here's the only moment that I don't understand in this statistics, which is that it says about 50%. eligible. I don't really understand why that is. It seems that in respect of maternity leave, the number of which reaches 150 000, 15 000 is In any case, in relation to mothers It's more like 10%. Without further ado about statistics... It follows that fathers in Poland use it actually to a very small extent, to a small extent. Here is the question, the fundamental strategic question: should this be the case? Should we seek to change, namely the greater use of parental leave by fathers, especially parental leave, but also fatherly leave? How can we possibly do this? Surely a gradual change in the family model and a greater professional activity of women are conducive to this and can actually be promoted, education can be provided that serves this purpose. But the EU solution is a kind of extortion. I actually agree with the method of extortion in the sense that I think that much bigger though gradually The use of leave by fathers would be beneficial both for the family and for the child, and for children to be born more at all, because perhaps a number of families give up children because this burden falls mainly on the mother, i.e. the burden and care of the child, and the abandonment of ambition and the pursuit of work. So the question is: Whether to leave it to time, possibly some propaganda, or to use extortion. The Union introduces extortion. The only provision that interferes with this directive is the provision for 4 months, it is indeed in a conflict. When he asked his question, Senator Borowski was right to say that this extortion could be applied gradually. And without discussing our position directly at the moment, I believe that in response to questions in the discussion of possible solutions that would promote and even force fathers to take a leave of absence... Of course, after a period that is mandatory for mothers, it is indisputable. At the moment, this mandatory period is 14 weeks. There is therefore no discussion about this. But it seems to me that actually the EU directive is not absurd, it is not going too far, it is going in the direction that I support. However, we are in conflict with the detailed record and here we can possibly say that we decide on this yellow card or not. But in my opinion, it would be good for the ministry to actually commit itself to solutions, but, let's face it, extortioners. Because, as part of the discussion and internal discussion, this is, firstly, a difficult matter, secondly, it is not known at what rate this progress is taking place and whether it is happening at all. And it seems to me that we are suffering from this loss, also in terms of demographics, and above all in terms of the position and opportunities for women to live actively and continue working, because there are a lot of women who work. Therefore, in actually expressing some recognition of the ministry as a fairly comprehensive consideration of this problem and presenting good data in a rather difficult case, I would appeal... I absolutely disagree with some fundamental criticism of the EU position, I believe that it is right, but whether it is necessary for us exactly as it is proposed. It's debatable. It is therefore difficult to say that there is no conflict here. In conclusion, I am asking the Minister, first of all, to consider this, and secondly, for this team to develop intensive solutions that may be gradual, moving, mentioned by Senator Borowski, but which would force fathers, even by way of a slight extension of the entire leave, by two months in the end, well... Not everyone's gonna benefit from it anyway, because there's no compulsion to use it. As a result, perhaps estimates of the amount of 3,6 billion are exaggerated, because only part of... I do not know how these estimates were conducted. This must be done because it would be beneficial and, in general, it would go this way, as the European Union does, perhaps too arbitraryly, especially for these 4 months, in this directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. And I will ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Firstly, I am pleased that there were actually no voices in which the intentions of this EU directive would be criticised. Because equality between men and women in raising a child and in the labour market does not seem to raise any particular controversy or discussion, and we agree on that. The problem is whether EU countries, including Poland, can guarantee this equality, whether we have this problem and whether this problem exists in Europe. Of course, it exists in Europe and hence this directive. And to what extent does it exist in Poland, we heard it just now when the statistics were given. It exists mostly in Poland. The trace use of parental leave by fathers shows how stereotypical understanding of the roles of women and men in raising children in the first period of their lives is rooted among Poles Among the senators, I see from the reactions, too. Thus, it seems that there is no good chance that the provisions in this direction will be amended in Poland on the expected date. And then, in trying to guarantee equality of treatment between men and women, Europe enters. It is precisely when, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, certain objectives cannot be achieved, that is done by means of a directive. So to argue that we will do this to ourselves, it might be right if we could prove, firstly, that there is universal agreement in Poland to do this, and secondly that the government has a project ready to go in this direction. There's no room for either. Therefore, I understand the resistance that I disagree with because I have different views on this issue, and I also understand the need to implement this directive, because not only in Poland, but in many countries today, equalisation of the rights of women and men to raise their children in the first period of their lives, after birth, and on the labour market, because most women, for example, are forced by custom to benefit fully or mostly from maternity leave, is unfortunately necessary. I would personally support this directive. She absolutely does not require us to extend our leave and in that case bear the costs mentioned here. This is not necessary at all, because it is possible to choose another option, as the Minister said here, which is not related to the costs at all. I agree with Senator Szymanski on the eve of Father's Day, and I remind you that we emphasize the role of father. I am very grateful to the senators that almost 1/3 of the Senate have been involved in the competition. After these letters we read, we see the children hunger for this fatherhood as they desire it, how they yearn for the strong presence of their father in their upbringing. Of course, the little ones won't write it, but it extends to the whole life of children. That is why I believe that this directive makes sense and does not conflict with our efforts to date. And since there is no chance of changing the national legal order in this area, even mild, even over time, it may be necessary to adopt this directive. We have not heard from the Minister how other countries react to this. We have not heard information about the chances of blocking the directive. So I will finally express my hope that whatever the will of the majority and the opinion of the Polish Senate and the Sejm will be, this directive will ultimately enter into force for the benefit of women in the pace market, for the benefit of children who will have the right to more sustainable care. Because in the Polish system it would mean that only 1/3 of this period would be present with the child. So this isn't equalizing that time yet. But I'm sure that's a very big step forward. That's why I urge you to think carefully about your decision. The directive is moving in the right direction. As we have heard, it does not argue with the views of the government and its long-term, perhaps, aspirations, although there are no concrete proposals yet. I think it is worth supporting this directive. This will certainly benefit the coherence of marriages. This will benefit women's rights in the labour market. It will be for the benefit of the children. I think that's enough reason to go in that direction. Finally, I would like to say that in some statements, at least one, there was such an anti-European attitude on this occasion, as if the Union wanted to do any harm to anyone in Poland. That's not true. That's a bad attitude. And this is a more general approach to the Union than to the problem discussed here. This is all the more disgusting in a country where 80 percent are in favour of us being in the Union and seeing the benefits. They'd show up here, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u37	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome. Write down your time now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You'd have to reach out to some of the imponderabilities associated with the creature of a free man. A man has the right to be free and the state can only interfere if it is necessary and for his own good. Same with the family. The state can only intervene for the benefit of the family, i.e. in stress situations. And all kinds of creating allegations that in Poland there are supposedly defective, bad stereotypes about roles in raising children, is based on ideological assumptions. I believe that the stereotypes about raising children in Polish families, namely that mainly in the first period of life, when the child is very small, very unhelpful, is more connected with the mother, they are good. It's a good stereotype. Not every stereotype is bad and not everyone should be combated. We have accepted the wrong understanding of the phrase "stereotype." And in the name of that, we approach things completely ideologically. I have recently had the opportunity to participate as a senate envoy in 2 international conferences on violence against women. And I must say that I was proud to note that Poland belongs to countries where violence against women is very rare. So we are, so to speak, in the positive front of the countries where a woman gets due, relatively high respect. Contrary to what it looks like in countries that are following these new-fashioned solutions taking their roots and drawing mainly from gender ideology, in Scandinavian countries, which, on the one hand, want to be caring countries, and it must be acknowledged that from the financial side the family is very supportive, but on the other hand they cause a far-reaching state interference into the life of the family. And as a result, the Scandinavian states are very often losing cases before the European Court of Human Rights on issues relating to family interference, in particular the taking away of parental authority and the placing of children in various types of nursing institutions. And the same Scandinavian countries are also at the forefront of violence against women. Well, so that there aren't any simple leaders that are spoken of, pointing to the beautiful, laudable assumptions of the European Union. It is also important to remember what the European Union has been called to do. She wasn't called to be a national gendarme, especially to reach so far as to be that gendarme. also as regards the arrangement of family life by spouses and the decision of even such minor, specific issues as the proportion of leave to be used by the father and the proportion of leave to be used by the mother. Well, we can't be absurd. I call for us to respect not only those solutions which the European Union introduces and which, unfortunately, often go beyond those laws which are guaranteed by slightly more important acts of international law, such as the European Convention on Human Rights... For example, art. 8 speaks of respect for family life, and art. 2 Additional Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to raise children according to their religious and moral beliefs. I therefore think this: let us leave the question of the possible distribution of this leave to parents' decisions. Parents know best how to do this, and there is no point in helping them to do it, and especially forcing them to do certain solutions that result only from an ideological basis, according to which they try to somehow obscure the difference between man and woman in a situation where nature itself determines these differences. You can't put a case on your head. Yes, the fact that these proportions are slightly different from that in most Western European countries may lead to some reflection, but the question is what the conclusion is. Does this conclude that we are not well? Does that mean we're better off? I think we're better off. Let us stick to what is healthy, reasonable, sanctified by an age-old tradition and positive stereotype. I am glad that such stereotypes exist in Poland. I'm saying this quite consciously and responsibly. You may consider me otherwise a man who is a manly chauvinist, although I have never been accused of this. I believe that Poland is a country where a woman has due respect. This is due to the beautiful Polish tradition as well as the Marian cult. These are all elements of our culture that give a woman the right position. And let's keep it that way. We shouldn't be ashamed of that. Let us not allow ourselves to impose solutions of the Union, which, to put it mildly, are the result of some kind of embezzlement of increasingly newer spheres of life, including the sphere of family life. Let's not just get crazy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u39	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jarosław Oremski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As we speak about our European Union, we often talk about values. One of the fundamental values in the European Union is the principle of subsidiarity. I feel that the principle of subsidiarity is very often overinterpreted and even understood differently from what it says. How is it that in this case the European Commission is trying to say the following: this is not the competence of national Parliaments; national Parliaments with such a problem as the length and division of maternity and non-Maternity leave is not able to cope? But this is only part of the answer, the expression that the European Commission treats national Parliaments as incomplete bodies. The second element is the violation of the principle of subsidiarity at a time when the Polish government, the Polish parliament of this principle of subsidiarity does not break. The Polish Parliament says something like this: the family decides what is optimal for it when it comes to the division of this annual maternity period. There is a double violation of the principle of subsidiarity: both in the European Commission's relations, national parliaments and in relation to the family, which is the subject of this decision, because such a decision should be taken at this level. Yesterday we had a turbulent discussion about regional accounting chambers, about the Charter of Self-Government. The subsidiarity principle is also included... I think there's something here that's weird. I would like to conclude that a discussion could be held on the substance of the procedure. Please note that perhaps this is a topic for another conversation We are also dealing in Europe and Poland, although I hope that in Poland to a lesser extent, with a certain crisis of fatherhood. And he doesn't necessarily have to rely on the poorer ability of men to scroll as a result of a lack of maternity leave. In my opinion, the crisis of fatherhood involves something completely different, with a certain consent to Peter Pan's attitude, with ease of abandoning his family, with a lack of a father when perhaps he is needed for a child more than in the first period of his life, i.e. growing up. That's the problem. And we're trying to bring things together. Perhaps there is a phase in the development of the child when the mother decides the shape of the child's personality, and there is a phase when it is decided more by the father. Therefore, the absence of a father at a later point in life can be much more dramatic than the fact that he has no direct contact with a baby, which is a few months old. There is a myth in Europe that has recently appeared, very dangerous. Europe used to be a space of diversity and we could see where the best practices were. Now equality, also equality between men and women, is understood as the same thing. No. Equality doesn't mean the same thing. Even here in the Senate, we all specialize in something else. We're not the same, we're divided into committees. But at all costs, everything wants to be equal. This is one element. The second is the desire to take away the possibility of low-level decision-making. Maybe historians will improve me, but I think it was the last Russian Tsar Santa had such a saying that in Western Europe people have freedom in politics and he created a fantastic country where there is freedom from politics. And I feel that the European Commission is creating for us such a paradise of freedom from politics. They're gonna decide how we share our time with the baby. You'd have to think about why this is happening. I think... I will vote against the directive not even for substantive but for systemic reasons. Because if the subsidiarity principle is not violated here, it means that it does not apply at all. One thing can be said: sometimes the European Commission acts in favour of the largest countries. We remember the famous Juncker saying: it's France, she can. Another issue is the extension of the powers of the body, which is the legal body. I am talking about the European Commission But it's not a democratic body. I think we're dealing with this case here. I would like to believe that this is not a question of ideological thinking. However, please note that the objective of the change This can be read in the explanatory memorandum It is possible to return a woman to the labour market. And it's beautiful, it's important. But I'd like the subject of this bill to be the subject of a child, to be the subject of a family. And in all these regulations, I've got that feeling. There's some dehumanization. Everything the European Commission says can be accepted as being right, it can be believed that they know better, but in my opinion it is enough to talk to the majority of Commissioners to make sure that they are right. And one last thing. Senator Augustyn, you criticize certain things that happen in Poland, but I would never accuse you of acting against Poland and against Poland. And like Senator Majer and I, we are criticizing certain things that the European Commission is doing, that does not mean that we are against Europe. We are in the middle of this union of 28 countries, and we should fight to avoid being a buffer so that we are not in the periphery. I absolutely agree here. And this is... I am in the middle, I want this European Union to work better, and I believe that one of the main principles is subsidiarity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u41	Thank you very much. And to speak, please, Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I thank Senator Cichoni, Senator Oremski, because most of the thoughts I would like to say have already been said. I must say that there is no doubt that the mother and the father are important in their upbringing, but that they perform different roles. These roles come not only from physiology and human development in the biological sense. These roles are also very different in the later upbringing. There are a lot of studies on this subject, old, new and medium-sized. But some ideas or laws are completely astonished, as if they were abstracting: someone sat down and wrote something. I must say that one thought which I would like to add to these statements by the senators is a matter which raises my firm objection. Well, many times just now, words have been uttered from this speaker: extortion, extortion, extortion, extortion. I am not at all able to accept such a way of thinking about the subject as our citizens, citizens and citizens are. I am convinced that neither Parliament nor the government have a mandate to conduct social engineering to force changes in attitudes. We are the emancipation of our constituents, and it is they who, when choosing our electoral programmes, decide in what direction the state is going to develop. It could just be some kind of special area. But I don't even see him much. In which case it would be possible. How do you force more fathers to take leave of absence, how do you force a change of attitude? Well, I don't agree to that kind of thinking. This reminds me of the problem of the six-year-olds, when I remember it today, I was in the Seym room of Minister Shumilas, almost hitting the platform with my fist, saying that we would force a change of attitude and that we would introduce it despite everything. Similarly, I am faced with forcing attitudes to increase the proportion of children attending kindergarten. These are completely different things. We should provide the opportunity for fathers to take this vacation and for their parents to decide whether or not to use it so that parents can have a baby in kindergarten. But not coercion. It's inhuman at all, I don't understand it, I don't accept it. I do not think they have such a mandate, neither the European Union nor our authorities, to change that. All the more so because, as Senator Silence rightly said here, in our view this is good, it works out and the statistics confirm it. I have repeatedly spoken of these violence laws as having the opposite effect. Senator Szymański would probably also be able to comment on the effects of school education in the family and the contents of these subjects in the school. We know that statistics, not only in the Scandinavian countries, confirm how wrong these assumptions are. Therefore, let us be wise. That's right, Mr. Senator. If the subsidiarity principle isn't here, then where is it? It is not possible to impose everything here, there is no doubt that in the name of some strange, incomprehensible ideology and dehumanization of social relations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u43	Thank you very much, Professor. I'll ask Senator Krzysztof Elephant to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I fully support the position of the joint committees, which correspond to what has been put into practice in our country for a long time. I'm talking about supporting the family, not imposing ready-made solutions that can often lead to abuse. In the last decades we have witnessed great progress, so-called. Civilizational progress, which does not necessarily have a good effect on the family, the family as part of the natural environment of man. Nature cannot be deceived, even in these aspects of parenthood and motherhood. I hope that we will not live to see such a time when we are forced to introduce solutions that this nature will try to deceive, as mentioned here, among others. Senator Czerwiński. I hope that we will not live to see a time when in Poland we will have to adapt to activities that will serve to reduce the role and importance of our eternal solutions, because it is in Polish tradition that there is a home, there is a family, often a multigenerational family. It has served for centuries not only the demographic development of our country, but also the defence of higher values. If children who grew up in Polish families, young generations who grew up in Polish families for many decades passed on patriotic values, it is mainly because they brought it out of their family homes. This may not be a very appropriate argument for the topic we are discussing, but unfortunately we cannot be insensitive to these aspects, we cannot keep our eyes closed. The European Union is trying to introduce something from behind the desks, ready-made solutions, which may be somewhere in accounting records are somehow tightening up, but are difficult to defend when it comes to education systems, customary systems of the countries concerned. I would like to see a directive that would be introduced, for example, in the circles of Muslim minorities in Europe. She'd probably be totally laughed at there. I am glad that in Poland, so far, we have this solution, which gives us a choice, quite flexible choice in terms of maternity and maternity leave and parental leave. I'd like to keep it that way. I also believe that in recent years, however, the results of research indicate this, the Polish family has experienced many very adverse events, for example, a withdrawal during the decision about the first child. This leads to various complications. There is also a growing problem when it comes to the possibility of pregnancy in women. Also a stereotype that we have brought out in some ways from these modern European and world countries, showing how backward breast-feeding is... Well, many studies indicate that there is nothing better than the mother's food, especially during the first months of the child's life. It is often the case that the mother's food can be replaced in a decisive way by artificial food. The question is how much the European Union has committed to promoting, for example, natural breastfeeding. Because we see how this way and its promotion is still losing to the promotional campaigns of the largest food companies, who are outrunning themselves in boasting about their foods, which are fed to infants and young children. Studies also indicate that mother's food is a building block, but also a medicine for a lot of diseases that can occur in older children and even in adults. In addition, it is important to note that the child in the first months of his life, so to speak, takes the world away with his mother's eyes. It is also inscribed in the nature of man. It is not that we can artificially impose certain roles on family members, place a woman, place a man as we think he is. The fact that the umbilical cord is cut at the time of birth does not mean that the child's contact with the mother suddenly stops. He is necessary and indispensable in order to develop such a way of learning about the world, a sensitivity that is also necessary later in youthful or adult life. The father, of course, is also needed in the development of a small child, but his role After all, it has been written into the nature of man for centuries. It's an auxiliary role, a role of presence, a role of support. And only this division of roles, the natural division of roles, determines that we will not have to deal with pathological situations later. The fact that suddenly a woman with a child is left to herself. The European Union is somehow not anxious to force men, for example, to comply with the maintenance obligation. If such a right were introduced at European level to effectively force men to feel responsible for families that they often left without means to live... Unfortunately, in many cases, the task involved falls to the State. A small child in the family is not such a thing as a Tamagotchi toy, a popular Japanese toy once used to work out some protective instincts, because it was possible to take care of this toy, and when mistakes were made, this toy often refused to obey. The baby isn't rented to the family. A child requires that he may naturally grow up in this family. We cannot force the family to act against its natural needs by legal acts. I am in favour of the complete principle of subsidiarity in this area and for the role of the state in supporting the family. And the state will also ensure that the family is still the primary cell for the development of a good, healthy society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome. We're on time, ladies and gentlemen. Ten minutes to first appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, senators! First of all, I would like to thank Senator Wach and Senator Augustine for his comments. I fully share them, and I think they would be enough. Our side would vote as she would like, and I wouldn't have to speak at all, because it would be a balanced, competent statement here. But what I heard later on from the PiS... Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time since I have been so outraged in this place in this House. [[Why?]] Here's what I'm gonna say. I respect the views of others. I even think it is good that there are people who believe that the European Union should not interfere with anything. I respect that. There are people who feel that way. And that's not what I'm saying. I'm talking about the arguments that were used here today. I'm talking about a complete misunderstanding by most of you. I've actually heard from the PiS gentlemen themselves. What is the point of this directive and misunderstanding of the role of the father and the role of the mother in life and the raising of the child. Even some people who are smart, like Senator Oremski, my friend from Wrocław, can say such nonsense beautifully... [[That's not nice!]] Look, I'm gonna justify this right now... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Not nice, Senator. That's not nice.]] [[Nobody's gonna insult us.]] Look... [[Quiet, please, Senator.]] I listened very carefully to you, although I really was getting carried away. [[Don't insult us. What nonsense?]] I'm gonna tell you some bullshit, and I'm gonna prove it. Bullshit is not an insulting word. I said Senator Oremski is a wise man. Unfortunately, it happens to the wise, too, to speak nonsense. What do I mean? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to say that a child needs the love of a father at a later age. We know that... You should know that. And it's either cynicism or you're pretending you don't know... [[We know that.]] ...that there are studies that suggest that if a child does not have a relationship with his father, this relationship may no longer be established or very difficult to establish in the future. That's how it works, ladies and gentlemen. This isn't about putting diapers on men. And there were words like that here. There were also amazing words here about dehumanization, about perversions, about the fact that this directive would cause some kind of perversion. Gentlemen, this is a complete misunderstanding of what this directive is for. And the sad thing is, gentlemen don't understand how the young generation thinks, how young parents think. And women and men. The state flew away completely in its understanding of the world. You're saying... Which part of society are you representatives of? If women go out on the street with umbrellas, you're gonna back off again? [[Which women?]] Think about who you're representing. [[Not feminists.]] This isn't about feminism, Senator. It's about fathers, like women, raising children. I thought we all cared about that, but I see some people don't. I'd like to refer to things like breast-feeding. Was that a joke? I'm asking because I was late. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, did you say in a joke that it was an obligation to breast-feed? [[I'll explain it to you when you're done.]] Let me tell you something. You guys should... Later one of the senators spoke of breast-feeding. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Senator, you must know that there can be no mandatory breast-feeding because it is a matter of physiology. Not all women, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, can breast-feed. Some people want to, but they can't breast-feed. Please note that the number of nursing mothers has increased several times in recent years. This is thanks to a good policy promoting motherhood and also fatherhood. It's about equal rights for everyone. It's not forcing anyone, it's teaching society a good way. Even if you disagree, you will come in anyway, and you will come in with your 19th-century beliefs about fatherhood, family and raising children, and they will soon be a relic of the past. And I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, yes: you are very far from young parents, very far from women. What I've heard here about women, unfortunately also from Senator Obremski... Why should only a child be the subject of the bill, why can't a woman be the subject, why can't a man be the subject? Why? There are some laws that deal with the child, and this directive deals with, ladies and gentlemen, the paternity and the desire that fathers be involved in their upbringing for the sake of children. Thank you very much. [[It's like dads don't raise kids.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u47	Senator Richard Majer. You're welcome. [[I raised four of them myself. I raised four.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Gentlemen as a relic of the past. They'll be gone in the future.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Thank you for the relics of the past.]] If I had closed my eyes, if I had closed my ears and stood back to reality, then, I have the impression, I would have behaved like the officials in Brussels who were building this directive. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the reasons. There was much talk about the principle of subsidiarity. You spoke beautifully, Senator Oremski and Senator Wind. Senator Cichoń spoke about family and the principle of subsidiarity. How much will the European Union respect the voice of national parliaments, and how much will it do for us? Isn't it going to turn out in a few years that our work at the Senate is completely unnecessary and unnecessary to anyone? This may be because Brussels will fully regulate our reality. That's what it was about. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the causes, and I will go back to what caused the Brussels officials to decide to balance their professional life and their private parents and carers, so I will return to the very beginning. This is, ladies and gentlemen, in the recitals of this act. It is said that the main determinant, which caused the Brussels officials to seem, far removed from reality, to deal with this situation, was that women still do not take up a job or take up, but to a degree inadequate. [[There wasn't a word about it.]] So the real reason and source of this directive is that women are not active. We in our history, Dear Lords, remember this stage when women went on tractors. It was right after the war. There were posters. I don't know if that was good. But today Brussels says this: women have to go to work, women have to work because it is a source of happiness, enthusiasm etc. [[Yes, sir!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, this is... Senator Zdrojewska, I'm sorry. It is the individual choice of every woman, every man, how he decides to pursue his life, whether he wants to pursue himself professionally or familyly. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like a very broad view of Europe from Brussels. I, ladies and gentlemen, am a euro-enthusiast, I very much respect the European Union and its institutions, but I keep saying that the voice of national parliaments should be dominant. And I'm going back to the causes, which is why. Brussels believes that women should increase their professional activity. I wonder about this approach because you don't look at the demographics of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what is happening to Europe today? Europe is dying out. There is a process of depopulation of Europe. In order not to be literal: we had 727 million inhabitants in Europe in 2000, and it is estimated This is the United Nations estimate, so it is quite reliable that by 2050 Europe's population will fall to 600 million. So, ladies and gentlemen, 120 million Europeans will not be there. I ignore other issues, I ignore the ageing of the population. But, ladies and gentlemen, the cause of depopulation is the low fertility of families. Because in order for us to keep our population in a relative state, this ratio should be 1,8, 2, 3, that's the optimum. Ladies and gentlemen, now we have a fertility factor of 1.1.1.3. And, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think Brussels should do by looking at statistics? Well, it should prepare programmes, projects, solutions that will increase the population, improve demographics, develop Europe's population, and not, Dear State, have tried to replace indigenous Europeans with immigrants who, for various reasons and for different purposes, come to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, these voices that fall here, in fact, I have the impression, indicate that very often the reasons are not taken into account. This source, which Brussels should take care of, is not taken into account, what is really the most important thing for us. It is still important for Europe to preserve the identity of the individual European countries. But to preserve our identity, we must have a nation, we must have a family, and these are the most important values that Brussels should not take away from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think we're talking about the same thing, I feel like I'm listening to some senators, not to the same legal act. Well, it really involves taking care of the child, and a little bit of showing the way, showing that you can, and even need a father to care, be at home, be with the child, and raise this child. And to be honest, this is probably a very interesting directive for politicians. For politicians, men who tend to pursue their own careers and are far from their own children. I know what I'm saying, because I was in a very big political process myself when my daughters were very small. And I have to tell the senators. Because the gentlemen today were very active when I listened to them. That for a father is a large loss, which is very difficult to repair over the years. And I say it from my own experience, Senator. This directive, this document, does not tell us what to do to give birth to more children, but tells us how to take care of them. And just as there are laws ordering us to go to a doctor or ordering us to study. To go to a doctor, to vaccinate to be healthy, not to infect disease, to develop properly to study That's also the rule of law... We must go to school to gain knowledge to be wise to develop ourselves, but also to build our homeland. And the intention that appeared in this document was to show that also the father could be the one who will stay home and take care of the child. Sam and the baby, when his wife, the baby's mother, is at work. And when I heard one of the senators say that we suck or draw strange patterns from Europe, for example. Breast-feeding becomes unfashionable in Poland, I found that it was this senator who stood a bit backwards to reality, because I have the impression that for some time it has become completely different. That it is just some new patterns that come to Poland that show that breast-feeding is healthy, necessary and is nothing that should be embarrassing to a woman. When we're at the airport today, in restaurants, in different places, we see special places for women. It hasn't happened so far. So who's saying there's another system today, I don't know, getting a woman to feed? I was born in 1974 and remember to this day that when I was a little kid, I drank something called Humana. I don't know who made it then, whose production it was, but it was a time I had to drink it. I used to drink my mom's food. And I remember that Humana, she was at home. It was very tasty, my brother drank it too. Nobody's trying to get anybody to... It's not like someone has to breast-feed or have to administer one or another. I don't want to name names anymore, so no one's gonna accuse me of some kind of cryptoreklam. I've never seen Brussels impose such a thing. On the contrary, there is a whole system today, not so much a law or order, but such a building awareness of raising a child, taking care of his health based on everything that is natural. This is not only the case with children, it is the same with adults. Healthy life, healthy food today is something that is in such a circulation or in public debate very popular. Sometimes that's what we talked about, Mr. Senator, at the committee meeting. It is worth making decisions that force certain behaviors on us, but force them in a very positive and good way. In this daily run, we sometimes forget what is most important to us. We forget that a mother and a father can share the responsibility of raising a child. We can make us as men stop for a while and be home with this child, and our partner or wife will go to work and build her career, which is not bad at all. And a woman, and a man wants to grow, they want to go back to work and develop their talents. Right? They want to grow at work, earn peaks at companies, offices where they work. So do men and women want to feel needed in their work. We know exactly that in a world that is very dynamic today, it changes very quickly, leaving the labour market for a long time causes large losses. I don't know why you're so reluctant, why you all of a sudden think it's okay to build a strong family. How is a father worse than a mother to raise a child? I'm surprised men say that. What are we worse off at raising a daughter or a son? If we take these 2, 3 or 4 months of vacation and we raise the baby, will we be a worse parent? I mean, we're gonna be spending more time with the baby. We have the same love for a child as a mother. And please don't put maintenance issues in this discussion, because it doesn't have anything to do with it at all. Those villains who don't pay alimony, of course you have to go after them, because it's pathology, but that's not what we're talking about today. I think it's very bad, too. I don't want to call it pathology anymore. That the father often loses his battle with his mother in court when they don't get along in their lives. The father is often a victim in these disputes, in access to the child. These are the things we should talk about. Perhaps it is as you say, perhaps you are right, that it is a bit of an attempt to impose certain behaviors from the outside, but if we look at the whole system of law that operates in Poland or in other countries, we will notice that this system imposes certain behaviours on us, but only to protect us to help us build our way of life as safe as possible. If we are talking about natural growth, let us look for solutions that will make women and men repeat: women and men will feel safe enough to decide to have a child together. There are European countries looking for such solutions, e.g. For students and students, they encourage them to have a baby even in college, and they want to help these young parents. These are the mechanisms that we should talk about in this Chamber: how to help parents decide to have a child, so that they feel safe to know that if they have a child and are raised together, the state will help them, when they need this help, when, for example. They'll lose their jobs while they're still learning. And that's what's important. It's important. And here I am addressing my colleagues from Law and Justice. In order to build the awareness that it is the two parents who should raise their children. Unfortunately, in this traditional model, the whole burden of upbringing fell on a woman. It's wrong for a woman, and for a man, because a man loses contact with a child, and a woman loses much of her own development. And since you need a man to raise a child in this model of the traditional family you're talking about, and you need a woman, let's actually divide these responsibilities into men and women. And let's help them do it. Let's help a man and a woman. Please, look at this discussion and the documents that are coming along, just like this. It's not like someone's finger says something about someone interfering with someone wanting to, I don't know, break up some family model. Nobody wants to break up any family model. I look at it the way that someone wants to help us, that someone wants to show us the way, that they can. And that's the way to help me. And let us only add wisely in our country additional elements that will help young people and older people to decide and raise children. And then we can say that the natural growth is really high. And that we're not afraid of it being negative. I believe that deeply. I'm asking you: really a little less of this demagoguey, a little less of this attack, because he doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u51	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Mr... [[Senator Szymanski.]] Excuse me, Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I only have the authority to speak briefly because I have written my basic speech in writing. It mainly concerns what Senator Oremski was talking about, namely the principle of subsidiarity and how this principle has been abused in the framework of this proposal for a directive. This is not a paternity directive, as Senator Zdrojewska wanted to say, it is entitled differently and its content is completely different. From this discussion, which is a very interesting, very deep discussion... I would like to stress very clearly that I am against this directive, but I am also in favour of what Senator Napieralski has just said, i.e. that fathers should get involved from the earliest moments in the life of their child, because they are important. I think that very many of my colleagues, who opposed the directive and who, at the committee meeting and during their speeches, pointed out that the directive was wrong... Me, for example. I was very clear about the fact that if it were to be introduced, a large percentage of children would lose their custody for four months, they would have to benefit from institutional care. It's just a bad, too far-reaching solution. But this does not mean that someone who rejects this directive as being too far-reaching, breaking certain principles of the European Union that we are close to, at the same time, is against fathers being involved in raising children. In many words, I have noted the reflection on this subject. Perhaps it is a good thing that such a discussion is going through the Senate and that it is going in the direction of showing paternity. Recently, 28 senators signed a request to the President to honor Prof. Włodzimierz Fiyałkowski with the Order of the White Eagle. The century of his birthday was just June 4th. Thank you to the senators who signed this motion. I hope it will be realized. Why is it worth reminding this person? Because he created parenting schools in Poland, which still function today, which are a model for Europe. It's not mother school. It's parenting school. Pregnant women come to Polish birthing schools, very often with partners, very often with husbands, because preparation for birth and upbringing starts then. It was Prof. Fijałkowski who promoted natural feeding, which we have heard so many good words about today. In fact, they need to be promoted in order to be used as widely as possible. But he also pointed to the role of the father. It is not a question of a father breast-feeding, but research clearly indicates that where a father is a supportive person, women are more often and effectively breast-feeding their children and doing so longer. He was finally fighting so that his father could participate in the birth of his child. Many couples today decide this together. I didn't get that chance, I'm from this yearbook that was pushed out of the hospital and only under the windows could he stand. Today's different. Thanks to Prof. Fijałkowski's activities and the fact that young parents, mother and father, decide together that they would like their father to be at this important event so that he, not the nurse, would cut the cord to make him do it. And it's very, very important for a father-child relationship. Finally, Prof. Fijałkowski talked about two-parenting, which is why it is worth reminding him today in this debate. So let's not make a dichotomy so that those who oppose the directive are against the fatherhood. On the contrary, in various ways many of us engage in paternity and personal activities. Finally, a few more words. A child needs a mother and a father to grow up in an atmosphere of love, to draw gender patterns from both parents, and to learn how to interact with men and women. What exactly does a child need from his dad? Lublin Initiative, Dad. Net, gathering thousands of fathers from Poland, on the basis of Western European, American and Polish research indicates key attitudes characterizing effective fathers. These include: first, conscious and active involvement in being a dad, second, getting to know your own children, thirdly, the persistence of the father's character and the faithfulness of the commitments made, fourthly, ensuring safety and caring for the daily needs of the family, fifth, respect and love for the wife, mother of their children, sixthly, active listening to the child and good communication with him, seventhly, caring for the spiritual and moral development of children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u53	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to be in this discussion, but she dragged me to Senator Zdrojewska's pulpit. So I'm explaining: this example was supposed to be an indication by making it absurd. The European Union's policy on equal opportunities could lead to this. And as for the issues that are important here and that we're talking about... Well, the one who speaks at the end is either an apologyist or a critic of those who spoke earlier. A lot of new stuff can't be said, but we're gonna try. I would like to refer to the two words that have been put here. The first is that in which we are accused, on the right side of the room, as if we do not understand today's young people, those who are of childbearing age, those who may have children. I think we understand. I'm sure we understand 99%. These families, these young ones. Because only 1% Fathers decide to switch with women when it comes to taking a vacation. Yes or no? This isn't about us, the elders. Only 1% Fathers choose to do so voluntarily. So the question is, who understands more? Is it one whose views are shared by 99% of people of childbearing age or one whose views are shared by 1%? Logic is clear. And the second statement, which came as some sort of charge, is that we think that the father is evil or worse than the woman. That's not true. Father's just different. You don't compare here on a scale, whether someone's better or worse. He's just different. That's the best word for it. Just some roles. You can't compare certain behaviors, certain attitudes. I have one fundamental regret, an objection to the text of this resolution, and I have formulated it in such a way, I would say, rather soft, but now I may harden it. Namely, we are merely referring to a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. Of course, this is right, because really constantly violating the principle of subsidiarity will cause us to stop being national chambers, not only in Poland, but in all these countries of the European Union, to be required to adopt the law. We will allow the European Union's authorities to take advantage of the growing field for our cognition by means of small factual steps. I think it's wrong. And this is a matter of interest not only to us as parliaments, but also to the European Union. It is simply the European Union that will choke on all the powers it has. The effect will be that this body will be ineffective. Well, we are already laughing at some of the rights that the European Union is the author of, but it can get even worse. Unfortunately, it may be even worse, if this kind of madness, as the Prime Minister said, we do not put the dam on the ground, it will be abusing the possibility of lawmaking in all possible areas. Please note that we are dealing with a breach of the subsidiarity principle here, I would do this He called it, qualified, squared. This is because the Union is giving itself the opportunity to enter not only into the powers of national Parliaments or generally into national policy-making, state policy, but also into private issues. I'll read the title of the directive. It is a directive on the balance between working life and private parents and carers! I, as a citizen of Poland, but also... well, maybe not a citizen, but a citizen of the European Union, do not wish the Union to impose on me what the balance between my private life and my professional life is supposed to be. It's just a matter of my freedom. I don't want the Union interfering in this. I don't know if I'm making myself clear... It's my right, I mean. I'll figure out where the balance is. The Union is not for that. And you just don't give me a fuck about fixing that tupus. Right! Let the Union take care of the economy, let it deal with alimony, because it is important, let it deal with the problems that it has made for itself, i.e. immigrants, but let it not enter into my private life with shoes. And here's the general issue, I think it's basic. Well, two keywords are often combined: equality and freedom. Freedom and equality This combination has sometimes been found on some banners. Well, they can't be reconciled, ladies and gentlemen. While equality certainly makes sense and is a fundamental directive, the basic point of reference for social rights is that all people are equal, regardless of race, skin color, gender, age, etc. The question of biology cannot be referred to for equality. And the role of father and mother is not just a social issue. This is primarily a biological issue, at least in the early stages of the child's life. And there's no way to decree equality, because it just wouldn't make sense. That's where freedom should be. I am no longer talking about the fact that freedom belongs to the individual, and the individual should have as much freedom as possible, of course in such a way as not to harm others. We had these systems where he was tilted towards equality. It was communism, in which they all had the same clothes. And now we have unism, in front of our eyes a new system is born, it's called "unism." That's where this equality is, this decreed equality. We also had these ways where freedom was... well, there was that freedom in excess. It was anarchism. Or some kind of liberalism in the most sharpened version. And this is bad, and this is bad. So you have to measure all of this properly, but also, as I say, apply a measure of equality to what it applies. Well, we don't measure the length by weight. The measure of equality should be where civil and social rights are concerned. By the way, Poland should boast about what it has, what history it has in terms of equality. At the same time, we are already abstracting from the Republic of the Noble Republic. I mean, who, as one of the first countries, gave women the right to vote? And that's right after independence, in November 1918? That's what the Poles gave it. This is the equality that needs to be followed. Social equality. And what else is freedom? This should be used in the field of biology. And we're just not gonna change that. And the attempts to impose so-called social sexes, or genders, will end tragically. We, by the way, paradoxically, maybe we're already seeing this tragedy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that men cease to be men in Europe is unfortunately also linked to the fact that women cease to be women. It's like it's coming down... The effect is that Islam enters with true men. Do you want to have that equality here? Because I don't. I just want to have men and women in Poland. Because that's just how nature did it, or actually God did it. I want this to be the end of Poland. That's it. That's all. And I want to make sure that, according to our customs, the first woman has the opportunity to pass, that we give way to her, because these are our traditions, our customs. I don't want the Union to change that for us. Let him take care of what she was created for at first, because she can't handle it. So if she can't handle it properly, it starts to happen where she should never go in with her shoes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u55	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say something different than I'm going to say, but it happens that the speeches of the predecessors change the context of the speech a little bit and what suddenly becomes important. At first, I would like to fully agree with Senator Czerwinski. In fact, as a father of 4 children I also think that the father is to be a father, the mother is to be a mother and mixing these two orders is not the healthiest. [[Dangerous.]] However, Mr. Senator, you said that it was nature, or God, and that apostasy from it was an act against God's will, if I could understand it so... [[But he didn't say that.]] But that's how I understood it, Mr. Senator, like this. I'd like to say, since we're talking about nature and God, that there are some derogations that you don't approve of, changing these roles... If it comes from what a person feels internally, then it's an act of God, no one else, according to your logic, thinking. It's just the way it is. [[There's...]] [[Satan's action.]] [[God's favor.]] And so do I. According to the logic you're presenting. God has allowed it. You said you represent the 99% sentence. Poles. But at the same time, you said, and before that, Senator Szymanski... You gave an example that we are the country that gave women the right to vote. Except it's probably 99% before that. It was against giving these rights to women. So that's 99% today. That's what he thinks... Well, in history, we had such examples that we had to break certain things that were harmful. Senator Szymański also talked about the fact that fathers were not allowed in and removed from the early moments of their lives. And that's what happened. for many years, not only for communism, but also for earlier. And it turns out... You should've broken it, and today we're all saying it was a very good break. So this is the situation... I wouldn't want us to say she's the only one that's good. You said that's the point of our dispute and the difference between you and me. That you don't want the Union to decide what we're supposed to be in these areas, because it's another piece of work that's imposing something on us. Senator, we are in this creation primarily because this is how the people decided in the referendum. The moment we joined the Union, we agreed to some things. And I would like to point out to you that, of course, it's easy to say that this is such an abstract creation of some five technocrats who make things up, but that's not true. Mr. Senator, six years ago, I was sent by the Senate to Denmark, and I attended a conference on labour migration, because already then the Union began to see... Well, I'm sorry, it's not the Union, it's just other representatives of the working class in each country who started to see that there's a problem. And it happened there, so to speak, that the collision with the head of the union of builders, who came out on the stand and was devastated about this horrible, unbearable competition in the labour market. And do you know what kind of arguments he used? Here we, Danish or French fathers, are living within the framework of a father's ethos. We have to leave work at five o'clock... [[Let's get to work.]] Five o'clock, 5:00 p.m., it's over. Why? Because we have responsibilities to our children. The thing about us is I have to pick up a kid from school for a change with my mother because that's what it looks like. This is how our society is constructed, and we have agreed to it. When it's Saturday Or Sunday, I can't take the job and work because I have to and I want to spend the two days with the baby. I take on the responsibilities of e.g. That I have to be a free coach at school. And now you come here and there's nothing for you at all. There's no family for you because you're here on sax. You are separated from your families and can work 24 hours a day. Paradoxically, after these six and seven years of this conference, the same voices appear slowly in Poland, and they concern immigrants from... We have the most Ukrainians, as we talk about very often now. When we talk to those Ukrainians who come here, we all see what it's like. From every conversation, there's a deep human tragedy, because they're separated from their families. So when it comes to this model that you said was simply imposed by this abstract legislator, this European Union devil, it is not entirely true, Mr Senator, because it is society that creates all the officials who sit in the authorities in Brussels, through how they are constructed and how they see, among others. the division of responsibilities in the family and the role of a father that has been discussed for many, many years. If we look at this historically, we will see that these discussions were taking place in France and in the Scandinavian countries 40 years ago. And he was probably there, in each of these parliaments, a man like Mr. Senator, who said, "You lefters, don't come in here with your ideas, because the father is the father, and the woman is the woman." And there probably was also someone who said, no, we have to change this model, which is bad, the experience of recent years, and some scientific views tell us that it needs to be changed. And he was changed there. And now we're gonna... That's right: we're colliding with it. Because that's where most people's emanation led to something that, in my opinion, in this particular passage... Because they are, I agree with you. There are some issues that neither you nor I will agree to. But now we're talking about fatherhood. And in this respect, I believe that these solutions and certain pushing in some direction, very possible, that for the benefit of children, for marriage and for paternity, they will push men in this direction so that there is no 99% Like you said... Because I think, and here, I suppose, unlike you, that this is pathology. If a man can raise a child for a while, he should decide more often if only to see what it eats with, what a woman's life looks like all day long or all week long to appreciate it. I know, it may not be directly related, but we've been talking about a lot here and about alimiters, and divorce issues, etc., etc. I'm going back to that. I deeply feel the tragedy of many fathers who were still picketing in the previous term in front of the Sejm, who fought for the right to raise. There's a lot of people like that. And now why are they, among other things, in such a terrible situation? That's because we have this perception. And here I'll probably tell you the opposite of what you think. It's matriarchal. It's a matriarchal perception that only a woman can give a child happiness. This is a certain obituary of the reasoning that has appeared many times here in this discussion. And I'm afraid, Mr. Senator, because I know... I've listened very carefully, many times, I'm sure you want the best, I know that. You want a guarantee for your family. I just think that, paradoxically, rejecting some kind of thinking... I'm not saying... I don't want to argue about the directive anymore, I don't want to go into what was unfortunately the point of your speech, which is that I don't want the Union to tell me anything. I don't want to get into this because we're not gonna get along here. More: I will partially share your view that on some issues the Union should not enter with shoes. I'm saying this a little bit against what I said at the beginning, that if you go into a club where there are rules, you can't... [[Time.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator, I don't want to get into your speech with my shoes...]] I'm almost done. I'm almost done. [[...but time's up.]] If it's said you have to wear sneakers, you can't wear flip-flops. But I'm afraid that this general denial of the Union right here, in this place, will lead to the opposite outcome than you intended. So it'll make the Polish family worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I am paying close attention to this debate. And speaking of my excellent predecessor, I would like to remind you of a situation. In the early 1990's, Gazeta Wyborcza proposed whether she had taken up such an awareness-raising, social campaign to be born in humankind. It was a very good initiative, because it was at the beginning of the changes after 1989 and the point was that the way in which young Poles, children, came into the world, contradicted some principles and standards of the development of obstetrics and some such empathy towards this new life that appears in the world. This campaign was very good and among others. St. Zofia in Warsaw, as one of the first in Poland, introduced the possibility of a father's presence at the birth of his child. I was lucky enough to take advantage of it, and at the birth of six of my daughters I was present. [[6?]] Yes. And I have to say, at the time, it seemed to me that this is actually a great action, this is the development that we have. Until a discussion on the subject arose and one of the participants in the discussion said: "What news is this? I remember my grandfather telling me that in the old days, when a child was born in the country, it was a man who was actively involved in childbirth. Very actively, of course, women participated, came to the village, while there was no midwife, it was a neighbor, someone who was helping with the birth. But the man was very active in this. And nothing unusual about this action was introduced except that it came back from this sterile way, when women started laboring in collective halls, lying, under conditions often derogatory, to the conditions of human birth. And a second example. Well, most of us in this room come from a time when there was fashion for artificial milk and there was feeding not on demand, because it was unscientific, wrong, only every 3 hours milk from powder and bottle. Professor, who was very generous about it at the time. I'm talking about the 1950s, the 1960s, when my granddaughter was born, she changed her mind and said, "Just a natural breast and a natural feeding." Because it turns out that in the natural milk of the mother are the best ingredients. And right now, we're even having a discussion that's actually obvious because no one's questioning it. Why am I talking about these two examples? Because I would like to say that overregulation of reality, which is inherently due to nature, as Senator Czerwiński said, and for believers it comes from God's providence... Well, that's the best they could come up with. And man can build himself another utopia, another paradise on earth... And we had communism, we had PZPR, we had an attempt to make things happy, we had Hitlerism, we had other utopias that appeared, well, some of them still go on to this day. There are tendencies of utopian regulation absolutely all reality, everything from A to B... [[To Z.]] ...how a man should say what he should look like, how he should be educated, what he should think, what he should do in his life, etc., etc. That's how you make yourself happy. This is not enough, some even link it with economic matters, like Mr Macron, who demands protectionism, as you know, which is absolutely contrary to the idea of free trade and the free exchange of capital, goods and services. So, Dear Izbo, High Senate, there comes a time when you have to say, enough of this madness. I understand that the Union can regulate the shape of a banana, it can claim that a carrot is a fruit, because in Portugal, carrot jam is very popular and so that it does not harm Portugal, so out of kindness, it was considered that carrot is a fruit, because the EU directive states that jam can only be made of fruit, etc. [[Ad rem.]] So we're building the reality of a certain paranoia, a certain utopia. Now, moving on to this directive... Ladies and gentlemen, this directive is contrary to the rights of Muslims, to their religious rights. We're talking right now... [['Cause that's what this is about.]] [[But that's the thing.]] We're saying now that... [[That's it.]] That's it. Professor Wach admits that I'm right. [[Yes.]] So we can say that this directive is anti-Islamic, as confirmed by the professor. Yes, sir. If that is the objective of this directive, then I do not know how it has to do with the principle of equality of views, civil liberties, freedom of opinion, etc. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you, Professor, for admitting that... [[That's why we say for everyone...]] It did not occur to me that this would be the intention of this directive. It didn't occur to me, but thanks to you, the senator already knows. So we see that such overregulation of reality leads to absurdity. That's why I think the committee's opinion, which is very balanced. Because I could write more about it, I am talking about the text of the explanatory statement of the opinion absolutely reflects the view... 'Cause the truth is, Whether someone likes it or someone doesn't like it So-called. The principle of subsidiarity in the European Union is nothing more than the principle of subsidiarity transferred from Catholic social science. Only in the lay Union is it usually called subsidiarity, and in Catholic social science it is called subsidiarity. No matter what nomenclature we use, it's the same thing. And the general point is that a structure that is capable of some degree of responsibilities or what it is to do, and is self-sufficient in this respect, does not need to replace a structure of higher order. That's why, while respecting workers' rights as much as possible, respecting family thinking as much as possible, because I suppose caring, and thinking about family... Because it is no secret that Europe is in a demographic collapse. That is why we are witnessing such political, social, cultural and other phenomena. This is due, among other things. from the demographic crisis. It is better to leave parents the chance to agree, in agreement, in dialogue, to agree on a number of issues, rather than to introduce a directive that causes the whole family to lose if the father does not define itself. Few of this, of course, loses the most child, to whom a parent in the first stage of his life after birth is... whose parents are directly in contact with their parents, mainly with their mother, but also with their father, are needed as much as possible. Finally, an important premise of another kind. Well, we have a huge crisis in Europe and unemployment is very high in some countries. At the moment, the introduction of an artificial administrative model of who can take a leave at a given time can be a theoretically beautiful idea, but the reality of life is what they are when it comes to unemployment levels, about the level of access to the labour market. I am not talking about Poland, because Poland is in a very good situation today, thanks to God, but I am talking about many countries of the old Union, and it is such reputable ones that face daily unemployment problems. In conclusion, I support the content of this opinion. As to the justification, I agree with Senator Czerwinski that more could be written on this subject, because we are certainly dealing with such a usurpation by international structures of the right to, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity, enter not only into matters of the basic social cell, which is the family, but also into the powers of national parliaments, which have the right to decide matters which are important to their citizens in a sovereign way. From this point of view, this opinion should be supported as much as possible. It is also important to remember that I am saying this as the author of many books on family issues and the problem of ideology of our reality. We already had systems that tried to ideologize the family. We did. There was a Swedish model, there was a Soviet model, where there was a common kitchen for several families. This was not only due to economic conditions, but also to some ideology, but this is not the time to discuss it. Let us protect the European Union so that it does not make such a programme. Let us protect the European Union so that it is neither against Catholics nor against Muslims nor against atheists nor against believers of Moses or against anyone else. Let us protect the Union so that everyone can decide for himself in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Let's not protect, let's build! Let's build!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska will now speak. Five minutes. I've been informed this is the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u60	Yes, sir. Dear Senator Jackowski, you forgot to add that there was still a German model where a woman was treated as an incubator. [[These models, Mrs. Senator, they were a lot.]] But I remind you of this one, because you forgot about it, and you brought up Swedish and Norwegian ideology. I'd like to address Senator Czerwinski again. I'm glad... [[Again?]] Not with pretense, just... [[I'm gonna have to leave.]] Mr. Senator, I'm glad it was sarcasm. Thank you very much. That's all. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this will be shocking for some of you. I raised my children. I have 2 children in the 1980s. We were quite a modern marriage for those days and raised our children together. My husband knows how to bathe and rewind a baby. And it doesn't take away his manhood. I do, and I draw your attention to it. It was the '80s. Today young families, gentlemen and ladies, take care of their children together. Ask around and see what it looks like right now. It's just times change. [[I support that.]] I am pleased that some of you support this. I'd like to address Senator Szymanski. I assure you. That's how I figured it out. That this directive is about fatherhood, although it is not in the title. She's also about fatherhood. That's what I think. It's just a little point. Now I'd like to correct some things. One of the senators. Sorry, I didn't get a note that said women have to work, that this directive is forcing women to work. That's not true. It's not there. Next thing you know, it's a sentence that came out here. I'd like to speak to Senator Silence now. I really appreciate his opinion, but when you quote sociological data on violence... Pay attention to the fact that you have listed the countries where the greatest violence is. These are Scandinavian countries. This is because violence is most often revealed there. Unfortunately, in Poland we are still dealing with the phenomenon of filing and then withdrawing reports of a crime of violence in the family or towards children. Unfortunately, this is what happens in Poland, so let us not be so happy that we are so great and there is no violence. Every now and then we read about those poor children who are in the hospital. So, please treat these sociological data with a little bit of a wink. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is that the family is a Polish tradition. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski, there was such an opinion that the family is Polish tradition. I want to say that family is also an Italian tradition, Spanish tradition, German tradition. I really don't know where something like this came from, why it seems that when it comes to family, we are some special and special country. We're not. As far as family is concerned, it is not bad for us in Poland, and it must be emphasized, but there is also a lot to be done. And last but not least, we were talking about biology here. I will not argue that there are gender differences, but I would like to point out that women can feed, work and feed a child. Our law allows women to do that. So a woman can work, feed a child, and at the same time a man can take care of that child. In fact, besides feeding, I don't see any huge differences here, except for this first period, the initial period after the baby's birth, I don't see any major biological differences here. My father can also feed, hug, tuck in and wait for my mom to come home from work. That's what I think. That's what I think. That's all I wanted to add. Thank you very much. [[One and the same...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u61	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Napieralski. I don't know if it's the first time or the second time. [[Two.]] Two. That's five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If a young man had listened to this debate, he would have said to the Senators of Law and Justice: you are world champions in throwing into one bag of different topics that have no connection. And when I heard Senator Jackowski talk about how the care of one parent or another over the child will affect unemployment, its increase in the labour market... World Championship, Senator, world championship, really. It doesn't have any effect. On the contrary. In fact, it helps a woman return to her profession, develop, make a career. That's the kind of legislation that's gonna help her. In this bag there was also philosophy, because it turned out that 2 values cannot be combined, one cannot combine freedom and equality. I believe that it is possible, I believe, that freedom and equality can absolutely be linked and must be linked. There are two values about which the philosopher Leszek Kołakowski spoke, security and freedom, these two values which can exclude one another, showed that where there is more and more security, more and more freedom is being taken. These laws, as proposed by the European Union, are really meant to show a canon of parental behaviour with a child. And I can't accept that all of a sudden you're trying to throw a lot of side issues into this discussion. Just because a father will be with a child longer does not mean that in a moment men in Poland will become women. That was really pretty funny, Mr. Senator. The fact that some traditions come to us or some patterns from outside our country and more and more men become women... I didn't notice in this room or outside of this room that we were turning into women, really. Besides, in my first speech, I cited many examples of really very good traditions, patterns that are present in our country, such as breast-feeding or healthy raising and caring for children. So please don't mess with these topics, because it's hurting both for your father and your mother, and for us to take this subject really seriously. One interesting thing that follows from this discussion And I hope that's what's gonna happen. The fact is that there will actually be laws in Poland that allow those fathers who do not pay child support to be prosecuted. I'm curious if there will be laws that will encourage young people... or otherwise, give them opportunities, safety, so that they want children and are not afraid to have children, especially for economic reasons. I would like you to have such regulations in Poland, too, so that you can introduce such regulations. What Senator Pociej was talking about Which are very important... This directive is breaking certain stereotypes, that the best parent is the mother. Because in many things that should not be done, but are taking place in Poland I'm talking about divorce cases, so that this canon of thinking about a parent is that a man is injured, and most often it is that once a week he can meet with his own children, because that's what the court says. And those pickets that Senator Pociej was talking about, and the dads' meetings with the club bosses, they happen all the time, because that doesn't change. So there are really attempts to show that this model can be very interesting, fair, modern, but also good for the child. And I don't agree with the idea that suddenly someone's interfering in our private lives. Well, a lot of rules regulate our lives. Including a little recipe that talks about quiet nights, and you have to be quiet after 10:00 in your own house, because you have to have a good time with your neighbors and don't make any noise, because they want to be calm too. There are just national laws that tell us about many of our behaviors and which can be defined as interfering with our freedom. But the wisdom of politicians who adopt Polish law and every other law is that the law governs our lives so that we are safe, free, equal, felt that there is someone above us who really protects us from everything evil. This mixing of concepts and putting everything in one bag is very harmful and this discussion has gone absolutely wrong. I would like to appeal to the right side of this room, however, to change its thinking and see that this is really about the welfare of the child and the two parents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u63	Thank you very much. And Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is also a second speech, so I very briefly. I would say that this discussion, even though very shot, is very interesting, because apart from the fact that in many statements there was some legal reference to the principle of subsidiarity and it was often questioned, this discussion showed emotions and showed our positions, and somehow we exposed ourselves much more than some might want, or perhaps some would. Anyway, in that sense, she was very interesting. I actually just two threads, very specific, I'd like to move on. One you have just discussed Senator Napieralski, so I have been very briefly; this is about the fact that the law is forcing. In some statements there was a strong opposition against it, but in general most laws force. It hurts us a little if this is happening in the field of family and family regulations, but it also happens, and on many examples we can show that we agree and this is necessary. That's the first thing. The second of these specific threads The very fundamental principle of subsidiarity of this EU regulation, against which we intend to act, was questioned, at least most of it seems, in the form of a yellow card. In my opinion, that depends on the assumption. If we assume that such a state as we have today, which is probably still in other countries, that vacations related to the upbringing of a young child A baby and a small child, but after at least 14 weeks, as we do In fact, 1% of parental leave is taken. male and paternity leave, i.e. equivalent maternity leave, 10% Men in relation to the number of women, because I think it's... If we think that this condition is wrong, that it serves, first, the development of a woman, secondly, childhood, and thirdly, society, if we think it's wrong... Because there wasn't an agreement here. Some have said that this is the right thing to do, that is the right thing to do and that it is the right thing to do. But I don't think that's good. This needs to be changed, and this needs to be changed differently from the evolution of many decades. And then, if we accept this assumption, we cannot question the principle of subsidiarity here, because we cannot do it so far. The Minister has shown very neatly and honestly that there are work to be done, or at least studies that could possibly lead to this. And I call on us to go this way. But if we accept that we can't do it with our own strength So far, so far, so good. The principle of subsidiarity is preserved and this EU extortion is fully justified. The question is, right away, as a four-month extortion. I have doubts about this, and here our resolution has some justification. But you can't say that the Union doesn't make sense that it's entering our reality with boots because we can't do it ourselves. The question is, do we want to do this? I think we should.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Szymański made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft opinion. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 526, and the report of the Commission In print No 526 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the Marshal will allow and the House will not protest, I will extend my report on... because the High Senate has given me another function, namely that I was a representative of the Senate, this initiative during the work of the Sejm. I would also like to point out at the outset that the subject of this report is not covered by European Union legislation. Moreover, when I report my work, I would like to stress that it was one of the few, if not the only initiative taken here in the Senate, in agreement. It was about how important, chronic... I would say, chronic legislative pregnancy in terms of compensation, honoring people who have specially distinguished themselves in the history of the Republic of Poland. As you know, it was passed already in the year... A group of senators representing all political views reported it already in December 2015, as in September of the following year the initiative was sent to the Sejm, and there, in accordance with a principle which does not apply to any political parties, waited for its decision over a year. In the Seym there were differences of opinion on this law between the government and the Members, but finally the opposition groups who submitted their proposals were cut off. Gratitudefully accepted by the Members and by the Senators involved in these activities In this charge of Senator Mammothov... all this led to the fact that after a year of this chronic pregnancy the bill was passed. The law was passed, so to speak, with the spine and most of the changes already occurring during the work during the previous term of the Sejm. Let me remind you that significant changes were actually down to quantitative changes. Namely, the Senate's will was introduced by the principle of universality, independent of the verdict or opinion of social assistance. The death of this benefit was introduced, i.e. for an unlimited period of time. Also introduced was the principle taken over by the Combatant Act. Because it was more or less the action of the High House to bring this law closer to the Veteran Act and suddenly remain, having a separate status... A few additional allowances were also introduced, among others. medical care and communication relief powers. The benefit of this law, this amendment of the law, because it is actually called it, was also the authorisation of the competent head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons present in this Chamber, to allow him to in special cases, where the amount which in this law was introduced as valid and universal, i.e. 400 PLN... He may have applied for the so-called award. social pensions. In its last provision, the law also introduced an obligation to adopt it, to implement it with the debubecisation law. plus or second species. During the work in the Sejm, as I said, there was controversy, and there was no wrong will to pass this law. But there was still money in the game, money, which is worth between tens of millions and a few billion zlotys. Finally. In the past days This law has been passed by the Sejm, and now I have the opportunity to pass it in an accelerated manner, slightly changed in comparison to the adopted law, as I say, in September 2016. What did the Sejm do? He's done the deletions. He's deleted his communications privileges. He also deleted the obligation of local authorities to provide assistance, leaving the formula of possibilities. He also deleted the powers of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed to apply for special pensions. In turn he added the possibility of attending specialist doctors without prior referral from primary medical doctors, as well as shortening the deadline, speeding up the implementation of this law, indicating the day of 31 August this year, a nomen omen a significant day for all those who were under these and not only under these banners gathered. Then, the day before yesterday, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed the draft presented and supported Senator Mątkow's proposal to adopt the law unchanged, i.e. without amendments. This request was fully supported. So it is my duty here to present to the High Commission a request for this law to be passed at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u67	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. What exactly is the redefining of being repressed? Because I understand it was done. What criteria must be met together in order to be subject to the regime... i.e. to obtain the rights that result from the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u69	Basically, as I said, the backbone of this law, the law from the previous term, has not been changed, including of course the definition of anti-communist opposition activists and the oppressed. But I think you're already grasping the details about which the definition is changed, which is to indicate the time when the persecution took place and the substitution worked. And that's in two pieces. Namely, it is a term which was specified in the previous Act, the deadline until 1989. It extends until, as I remember correctly, the resolution of the Security Service, i.e. until 31 July 1990. But in less maybe interesting, added for other reasons the verse of this law is also said to be the law of the combatant The veteran, she should not be confused with the bill under consideration here, extends her period until the end... actually until the last president's earthly crap came down... sorry, he might be president, but it's about the last guerrilla, so a participant in the struggle for freedom, i.e. Franczak's doll, that's until... As if it's extending to... sorry, until 1983... [[1963.]] 1963, until his death, October 21st, I think. I've improved. Yes, Minister? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u70	One more question for Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. I have a question. Here's the text of the bill... As if you've reached, you've probably got that print, that's... [[Yes.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 lit. b on page 2, this is about this status... A person is considered to be a person who has been under surveillance by the State's security authorities and has been subjected to an unlawful act of committing an offence or offence against him. Or, for example, the person who has the status of the victim at the Institute of National Remembrance, and this status from the original one, i.e. until 2005, because I will remind you that after 2005 the status of the victim could also be obtained by the person who had a period of persecution, but e.g. She was also a secret security officer at some time. [[Status is status...]] That was the modification of the bill... [[No...]] Well, on that basis, one of the very famous opponents got the status... [[It's just that there were no documents.]] Okay, well, I'm not going into the details anymore, so I'm going to withdraw this thread of my question. But does the person who has the status of the victim have documents at the Institute of National Remembrance and e.g. It says that it was affected by activities at the workplace, at the place where it was taught, or, for example, at the place where it was taught. has the correspondence been detained, which was later destroyed and there is a protocol from the destruction of it, so a misdemeanor has been committed... Does this person have the status of a person within the meaning of this Act, or does he have to fulfil any other cumulative conditions to obtain this status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u72	The status of the victim, who is no longer in the Act on Disclosure of Confidential Information, cannot be bound by the Constitutional Tribunal... This law defines, for the purposes of this law, those persons or those activities of law enforcement agencies of the former Polish People's Republic and others who violated political and human rights, social rights. And in that detail you were talking about... It's described in the article. 3 in section 3 of the Act. So surveillance... the bill changes, allows, which wasn't before, the issue of classified activities. Which means that beyond the knowledge of the person himself, who may not have realized until today that surveillance activities were carried out against her, not only restrictive, discriminatory, but also classified, and hence her position in life... You've withdrawn, so to speak, from the problem of the purity of these, say, patriots. And here we have adopted a uniform definition, which is contained in the Veterans Act and in the Awards Act, which defines the relationship between the granting of a person, for example. the status of the victim and her contacts with the SB. I stress that this law also accepts the harsh censoring of these behaviors, the law is not only limited to secret collaborators, or service agents or servants, but also includes all those who have cooperated, broadening, in this respect. This is Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u73	You're welcome, Senator. [[Probably a tough question he's gonna ask, which is why...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u74	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question about the work in the Seym. You have observed this work as a representative of the Senate. What was the argument when removing the provision on the obligation of local authorities for eligible persons? Because now it's just an opportunity, well, actually, maybe, but it doesn't have to... [[Yes.]] And in the past, there was obligation, I mean, in the original text... what did prevail? 'Cause that's kind of a soft record, too, and... well, it's like he fell off the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u75	Indeed, this record had defenders, because it is believed that the government today has various possibilities, especially social ones, which the state, understood as the central administration, does not represent. And sometimes these self-governments give... In the second aspect, this also referred to communication concessions, which are at the moment the exclusive domain of the local government, so the possible granting of reliefs, like those granted to combatants, is not a necessity. As I understand it, these delicate discussions have shown that the government does not want to impose on local governments decisions that have financial consequences. I also understand that this is what every government does: it believes that a government should, within its own domain or behavior, or prefers its inhabitants to solve these issues in the atmosphere of a consensus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u76	One more question, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u77	Mr. Senator, here's the question: is there an idea in the process of working on this bill that, so to speak, from the vending machine to... Well, because most of them are people who are getting old or already retired, and very often these pension benefits... well, we already know what they are, they're just not enough and very low. Was there an idea to introduce a permanent instrument in the law that would increase pension benefits? Once, in the past, but there was an example. link that if someone had a so-called. bread order, it had 25% the pension allowance. Is this kind of mechanism... I'm not saying it should be for awards. But has it ever been discussed so that it is some satisfaction for these people, because yet the Republic appreciates their commitment, their courage, their patriotism? Was that the discussion at the committee meeting? And what would your opinion be if such a solution were to be put in place, not defined in time, but a fixed element, a component of the benefit received?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u78	Are you talking about decorations? [[No...]] In general, the benefits... [[I'm saying...]] Retirement? [[Yes, sir.]] Yes. That's how I figured it out. First of all, the bill is not limited in principle to pensioners and pensioners, as is the case with combatants. He says that these powers are obtained by all, from unemployed people, through workers, to pensioners, pensioners, although not like the veteran law. Does not include widows or widowers. That's one thing. Secondly, there were indeed proposals, even environments, not necessarily individual Members and Members who otherwise set the issue of this benefit, setting them as equalisation to the pension level of PLN 2 000 100. Why 2,000 100 PLN? Because they were connected with this narrative introduced here in the course of the work on this bill, that so much will amount to Ubeck's pensions. [[A new average...]] And there was a suggestion that victims of persecution should not be treated worse and that their income, i.e. not only wages, should be supplemented to this level of PLN 2 000 100. This did not find recognition in the eyes of the majority of both the committee and the Sejm. And I'll explain right away. This would be a very difficult financial operation, and this would introduce an element of aid. It would be necessary to determine these revenues and possibly to supplement the amount of PLN 2 000 100. And, of course, that would be partly unfair, because some would, not like this bread entitlement, even from 1 thousand 990 PLN to 2 thousand 100 PLN, and some from 880 PLN, because that is the lowest pension, to 2 thousand 100 PLN, which would divide, and above all, I think, despite the heated discussion of opposition environments, which lasted even until the day before yesterday, despite this hot discussion It would simply terminate the agreement, and I do not want to say that the compromise, but an agreement on the procedure of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u79	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] Mr Marcin Zielenecki... [[Zieleniacki.]] ... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the High Senate for this initiative to amend the rules currently in force governing the powers of those exercising the status of anti-communist opposition activist and those repressed for political reasons. I'd like to say that the project that left the Senate has changed. Senator Rulewski mentioned some of these changes. I think it is worth emphasising the most important element of this law, namely the change in the character of the witness addressed to persons who have the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a person who is being repressed. This change is that we eliminate in this law the income criterion which determines the acquisition of the right to such a benefit. This is an expression, I think, of the fulfilment of expectations, of the demands very strongly raised during the work in the Sejm, but also of the joint Senate committees. A change in the nature of this provision can be described as a departure from such a social character and to give it character, as the senator said, universal. During this work the term "dignity character" was used. Any person who fulfils the conditions set out in the Act, who obtains the status of such a person, an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person, given by decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, will simply receive this kind of dignity, symbolic in his pronunciation, a witness. I would like to say that the impact on the shape of the solutions that have been established or set out in the law already adopted by the Sejm had actually two issues. On the one hand, the fact that today we are dealing with solutions that a small number of people who meet the conditions set out in the Act use. As of today, the number of people who have confirmed the status of anti-communist opposition activist or repressed person is 2 000 731. In view of the fact that the rules in force today require that income criteria be met, less than 1/4 of those persons benefit from the benefit, which constitutes the form of such financial assistance for those who have been granted the benefit, there are currently 695. We assume that this change in the nature of the benefit, as I said, from social to dignity, this elimination of the income criterion, will entail an increase in the interest of the environment in obtaining the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons and thus an increase in interest in obtaining such a one-off service of dignity. The problem is that we were not able to precisely determine the number of such persons during the work in the Sejm. So we can say that we can only operate with estimates based on different sources. These estimates were based on some predictions, data from the Institute of National Remembrance, and we also used the data specified in the Encyclopedia of Solidarity. These data... the results of these projections were different, divergent. They indicated that the number of persons who can apply for status and benefit could be between 30 and 60,000. So that the lack of precise data on the number of beneficiaries of the bill has also influenced the shape of the solutions discussed today. I would like to say that this law assumes that the solutions proposed by the High House will allow the first period of validity of the new law to determine precisely the number of persons who fulfil or fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to this benefit. And, you might say, this condition will be fulfilled. On the other hand, I would like to say that such a factor, which influenced the shape of the solutions set out in the Act, was the level of powers used by other groups, especially veterans. Thus, the amount of the benefit, which we determine at the level of 400 PLN, and after the March valorization of this year, 402 PLN 72 gr, results from the fact that... The point is that the amount of this benefit corresponds to, in relation to the amount of benefits for another group of persons deserved for the State, namely, veterans. I think that's all about the general position with regard to this law. If this is the expectation of the High House, I would be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński would like to ask a question. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a large group of combatants, we have an undefined group of people from the anti-communist opposition. There is another group, it is already well defined, namely those deported to forced labour. In practice, their powers are very small, minimal. The representatives of this community are asking... And here I would like to get an answer from the Minister: is it possible not to increase material rights... Because that's not the point. This is usually about older people. Their main concern, I'll say straight away, is the possibility of simply going to a doctor without a queue, i.e. intangible rights, which do not involve budget expenditure, and which would simply allow them to survive in this last phase of their lives... We owe them something, too. What's the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there are more such groups. We are talking to these groups and we are taking action as if to the expectations of these groups. Here I'll name the so-called. miners soldiers, forced labor in mines in the 1950s, or those who are civilian victims, blind victims of war or post-war activities. In fact, this bill that we are talking about today has been given priority in a way so far. We know that the work on this bill lasted quite a long time. But it's not like we forget about those other groups that we think require a certain appreciation. Let me put it this way: at this point, we are already in the final stage of work on the government's position for the draft law on miners soldiers. Yeah, and we want to run similar legislative actions in succession when it comes to other groups of people I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u84	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u85	My question does not come directly from the content of the bill, but is related to the law. As you know, once again, the budget reserved for this law for the amount of PLN 50 million. It's all pointing. ♪ Though miracles also happen ♪ That this amount will not be spent in a few percent. So I have a question: does the resort have an idea of what to do with funds not spent during the past year and this year not because of the environments covered by this law? Does he have an idea for their development this year so that it doesn't go away?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u86	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Let me put it this way: in the senator's speech, it was said that the law entered into force on 31 August, and therefore already this year the funds in the budget reserve, at the disposal of the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, will be able to be spent on benefits for anti-communist opposition activists and oppressed persons. In view of the fact that so far the number of people benefiting from such benefits has been around 700, it can be said that the entry into force of the Act on 31 August will suddenly, one day, over 2 000 people A total of 2 000 731 people now have the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person will also be entitled to this benefit. We are unable to say how many people who do not have this status today will get this status in 2017 and thus fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to this benefit. This is because it is necessary to proceed with the procedure for granting this status, and this involves the issuing of an opinion by the Institute of National Remembrance and administrative procedures in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. This also involves possible appeals. We must bear in mind that this is an administrative procedure, so that we are dealing with the principle of multi-instance and the possibility of appealing to the administrative court. We are unable to determine precisely the number of people who will benefit from this benefit in 2017. This envelope of funds contained in the budgetary reserve may also be used for other forms of assistance addressed to persons repressed or anti-communist opposition activists. Such assistance is also provided for in this Act. This can be, for example, social aid aimed at those in difficulty in life. Until now, it has been a one-off one-off, and according to this law it will become a periodic one, so there is no obstacle to the provision not used for benefits being used for other forms of support.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u88	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] We have Minister Jan Józef Kasprzyk, Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Minister, do you wish to speak on this matter? [[P.O. Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: Mrs Marszałek, actually everything was already included in the speech of Minister Zielenecki.]] Yeah, but I'm sure there's some questions. Are there any questions for Minister Kasprzyk? [[Yes, I would like to ask Mr Kasprzyk a question.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister for the active participation of the office and the Minister personally in the construction of this law and for contacting those who are very interested in it. I would also like to bring up a subject that I know of. You explained this at the committee meeting, but I am aware that our deliberations are being watched, because very many people are interested in the shape of this law. We know that this witness is a specific witness. This is slightly over 400 PLN. But it is also important to know what other opportunities these people may enjoy. I would ask you to publicly present these possibilities, because it is very important for a wide range of environments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u90	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The provision of money, which will now be widely awarded to all those who will gain the status of anti-communist opposition activist, will be, as the senator mentioned and as you know perfectly well, 402 PLN 72 gr, i.e. as many as the combatants have, those fighting for independence in the years of World War II and post-war war. According to the provisions of the Act, the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons may, in specific cases, be associated with deterioration of health or e.g. the need to adapt the housing to the needs of the disabled person, as well as to pay cash assistance in situations of random events. In the records currently in force, such aid could be granted once every 12 months. The amendment introduces the possibility of covering the person concerned with a periodic, 6-monthly aid. The lowest amount paid under such aid shall be the lowest pension. This means that for a period of six months such person will receive six times the lowest pension. But there's also a record that after considering the motion... that's a very important thing too. This aid shall be paid at the request of the person concerned. And there is a record saying that in particularly justified cases, and such cases happen, this aid may be higher. As a response to Senator Rulewski's earlier question, we implemented an additional programme last year, which the Act does not talk about and which is implemented as part of the support for sanatorium treatment of anti-communist opposition activists. The opposition activist chooses a sanatorium to which he does not need to be referred from the National Health Fund, and up to PLN 3.5 thousand in the case of a three-week stay, the amount depends on the time spent in the sanatorium. The veteran office on the basis of an invoice of the proforma issued by the sanatorium pays for the stay in this institution of the opposition activist. Several dozen activists benefited from this aid last year. The programme is also very popular this year. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons works for the integration of communities of former anti-communist opposition activists by providing support or grants for environmental meetings, as well as for various projects, even film projects. There is a very good project of the Free Word Association supported this year by a grant from the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The aim of the project is to record reports of participants in the independence battles after 1956. They're with us ladies interned in martial law, for whom last year we organized a nice, I suppose, environmental celebration. We're going to do it again this year. In addition to the cases that arise from the provisions of the bill... From the activity of the office, the activists can benefit from our work as part of the competitions of offers then we allocate grants Or co-organizations of various kinds of projects. These things happen and it's very important to these environments too. We are talking about the fact that this amendment turns the nature of actions from helping, social to dignity. We want these communities to feel cared for as part of these dignified activities and to be able to act within the limits of their activities, which aims to integrate them and convey to the young generation a wonderful story about the struggle for independence of the Republic. In conclusion, I would like to add that this amendment is really fundamental. When we talk to anti-communist opposition activists... At a time when their powers are to a large extent similar to those of the Veterans, we show that the struggle for independence did not end with the battle of the Cursed Soldiers, but continued. And this banner of independence was also carried by representatives of anti-communist communities present here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski wants to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u93	Two questions arising from the concern for the success of this law 'Cause I believe she's gonna be passed. One, do you have enough staff? I refer here to the observations made by Prof. Zielenecki that there is a possibility of a large influx of conclusions and the need to resolve them urgently in the short term. And two: do you not think that political changes in this law, namely the delegation of previous consultative councils from the care of the local government, the voivodship board to the voivodship, will not cause delay in some decisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, when it comes to answering the first part of your question: we can do it, it's going to go smoothly, okay. And if necessary, it may also be necessary to increase the office's staff resources a little bit. It's not a big institution, but we're doing fine. Gently remember that our veterans in charge are a decreasing group, in a natural way. Therefore, the activity of office staff will be gradually transferred to the care of anti-communist opposition activists. Although, of course, this is also happening in parallel. What's interesting is... Because here Minister Zielenecki mentioned those numbers that we do not know, whether it will ultimately be 30,000 or 60,000... The interesting thing is that the movement around the amendment of the law, which is also described in the media, has not suddenly caused some special increase in the number of activists' applications for the status of anti-communist opposition activist. That's more or less, if you've been counting for a year and a half, an average of 140 applications a month. And, for example, Despite the adoption by the Sejm of the amendment, this number has not increased significantly in recent months. Perhaps it will increase significantly with I hope so. The entry into force of the Act in question. That's in answer to the first part of your question. And when it comes to changing and putting consultative councils in front of the voivodships... Ladies and gentlemen, this request has been made many times by anti-communist opposition activists, because this change in some way teaches the state's care of the environments and kombatanics, and brings together anti-communist opposition activists. The Veterans' Office is an organ of government administration, the voivodships are government administrations in the field. And I don't think that there are any particular problems with the functioning of these counsels. I would also like to remind you that consultative councils, in accordance with the provisions of the law, are to integrate the environment in the area, but on the other hand, their role is primarily to evaluate the conclusions on which the head of office has doubts. He then sends back, as it is said colloquially, in the field, so that activists associated with the region can express their views and express their views. Whether this opinion is to be expressed by the council at the marshal's or at the voivodeship, it doesn't really matter anymore. I would also like to add that the consultative councils currently operating in the marshals of voivodships have not been established anywhere. There are 2 voivodships in which so far the marshals have not made any movement to the council to appoint. And I hope that just to teach it and to make it work with the voivodships will make it easier for the head of office and the voivodships. I would also add that in the framework of this amendment In a few points, it also changes the Veteran Act, we introduce for the first time, because it had not been done before, the statutory record of the Veteran Councils. Such advice worked on the marshals, but it was not absolutely from the statutory records. I would also add that until 2009, the Kombatant Councils were operational and were appointed It was different because it wasn't due to the law in front of the voivodships. So this is actually a return to the situation that took place in the 1990s and at the beginning of the 20,000s. And it is clear to me that this does not cause any problems with the functioning of these advices. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u95	You're asking Senator Chróścikowski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My colleagues, you might say, interned people, who can actually be classified here. Because there is no doubt that they were persecuted, thank the government, thank the Minister for these initiatives, actions, but also asked me to do something. Many of them were not enough that they were persecuted in those days, but even when they started their business, they were also eased, so to speak, often in the context of competitiveness or sometimes simply failed in life. Well, it was different. They say straight: listen, you do it well, but unfortunately we could not get out of problems and we have bailiffs, so we ask whether these benefits obtained now will be subject to the bailiff's actions, so we will not take any of them. They're afraid that... it's just that it's at least on the same terms as retirement, because, in total, you can't take a pension, you have to leave a part of it to a man like that. That's why it's a question from my farmers, from those activists who actually... It's probably not a lot of people, but I know a few cases like this, and people have been talking to me about it. Is there anything that should be changed here? Is it possible not to take from them what they could get here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u97	In my opinion, But here, I'd have to support my legal expertise. This cash benefit is not subject to bail-out if you can say so. I'm so... I'm talking about that because these signals have already come to us, and I think we have a few of these cases. In my deepest conviction, this is not subject to bail-outs, but, of course, this is on the basis of legal interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u98	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, but at the same time a thesis, although with a question mark. And I hope you take that question mark away from me. Namely, this law, just as any, will be subject to life verification. One of these problems, which we have talked about many times, is the problem of scale, the number of potential beneficiaries, i.e. those actually deserved as opposition activists. There is no doubt that the office is prepared to monitor the situation permanently and to inform whether it is the Sejm or the Senate if there is a need for a supplementary record. But I think this bill review should go in a few other directions. One of these directions is among others. continue to search for those injured who have not been included in the records so far. Such an important category here It's very difficult to grasp, because we understand that human life is complicated. It is a matter of indirect repression, which have affected and to some extent to this day particularly close, i.e. the spouse, the children. This is about the whole situation, so to speak, family, that the family was in total discomfort resulting from the commitment of a given man to regain independence by Poland. This is, of course, a generational problem, so not just that generation that fought back in 1956 and 1989. There are therefore also solutions But they are also to be improved in terms of the war-after-war period, until 1956, and this applies especially to children who are very old today. E.g. The category that has been considered several times with regard to the Veterans Act is e.g. on the one hand, children born in prisons, and on the other hand brought up in children's homes, i.e. repressed indirectly or even taken away from parents who, after they were released from prison, were unable to recover those children. I'm talking about this category because it is, so to speak, for constant monitoring. A great request to remove this question mark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! People's cases... These are e.g. the so-called cases mentioned at the end of your statement. Children of the Soldiers of the Cursed. The cases of people who have been seriously affected by direct repression... These are the people entered, they are subject to the Combat Law. It goes on here, for example. about the case of birth in prison in the castle of Lublin we had several such cases Or the case of the youngest combatant in the Republic of Poland, the son of Major Żubryd, who was arrested under the order of the Ministry of Public Security at the age of 5 and has the authority of a combatant. As an anecdote, he cites the fact that when he shows his ID on a train, the conductor is always surprised and asks if there is a mistake on the date of birth. No, because he was arrested and repressed as a child, it was revenge on his parents. Of course, we monitor these environments and this is perhaps an idea for the future, like situations not so drastic to resolve. As far as widows and widowers are concerned, as you know, the Veteran Act causes widows and widows of veterans to receive about half of what veterans for their lives, i.e. a flat-rate energy and compensation supplement. For the total number of about 300,000 people covered by the Veteran Act, more than half are widows and widowers. Sometimes the combatant environments express such a claim that it might be better to allocate more resources to help the combatants than to the families, but this is of course a matter for discussion. I would like to remind you that this original project, which was born in the Senate in December 2015, was created by, among others, the project. Senator Rulewski assumed to increase the income thresholds, but he also assumed to cover the widows and widows. I think we are at this stage where, as I say, it is worth to count, see how many beneficiaries of this law will be, what will be their number. Perhaps knowing these numbers will allow you to amend the bill further in terms of the Senator mentioned here, but perhaps also in terms of... There were some doubts about the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding railway discounts, because we do not know how many activists there will be, how many activists there will be. And I'm going to add, by the way, that these numbers of 30,000, 60,000, but also 50,000 or 100,000, show that these are absolute estimates. It is not that these numbers are taken from under the finger, but simply the Institute of National Remembrance clearly stated that it is unable to quote how many of these people live, how much it has emigrated. Therefore, it is estimated in the assessment of the Institute of National Remembrance that it will be 60,000 in the end, because this is the result of archival records, while, as Minister Zielenecki mentioned, the editors of the "Encyclopedias of Solidarity" speak of 30 thousand. To be honest, as we talk to activists, with the environments that bring together people directly interested in this law, it turns out that this lower number seems more credible. This will probably make it possible to go back to the topic of other benefits for these people, or maybe to extend the catalogue entitled to widows and widows, so that these solutions are comparable to those of the veteran law. At the same time, as I say, in the case of the Veteran Act, we always pay attention to the fact that more than half of the benefits are benefits for widows and widowers who are not always aged, most generally.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u101	Are there any more questions from the senators? If there isn't, I'm opening a discussion. Thank you, Minister. Senator Rulewski is the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that together with the expected adoption of this law, there will be such a cezure, because in the basic form decisions concerning the obligations of the Polish State resulting from the article. 19 constitutions, but also general belief in the need to support patriotic environments, will already collapse. A short balance sheet can therefore be sought. As a result, it can be revealed that here the Senate was the House which carried out several laws in the previous and present term. They concerned the recognition of retirement pensions, the extension of anti-totalitarian laws. But this balance sheet also consists of earlier works of the Polish State, in particular the Act on recognition of invalid judgments given by the authorities of the former Polish People's Republic and its allies. This is not a transparent arrangement. Many actions were of an occasional nature, whether in the case of amendments to the Combat Law or even amendments to the Act. It is true that the Polish state has not developed a uniform system. But on the balance sheet, I would like to point out that there is no uniform system in the world. They are different from civil solutions in the United States, in Anglo-Saxon countries, where this assistance is based on foundations or funds, by very modest assistance in England, limited to medical assistance, to a one-off flat-rate solution in the Czech Republic or perhaps even in Lithuania. But it is true that, because of this, we can say, the chaos among our guests is bitter, above all, about the long-term handling of these matters, as well as about the lack of recognition of the dignity factor. I would say that the reasons are objective. This time, which was extended, caused the discussion to move on to other areas. E.g. The narrative on the debubbication law, which rightly emphasized inequality, injustice, has led to the fact that every legislative action suddenly became old-fashioned, obsolete. Besides, we must remember that the bill could not be abstracted from other similar veteran environments, as Minister Zielenecki said. And here is the first conclusion: if the successors, other parliamentarians or the environment, take some initiative, then they have to face the fact that they have to be jointly and severally treated to pay or honor the Campaign environments, which are much more numerous, because they count 300 000 people. So this is the limit of material benefits, but not just material benefits, which is an obstacle to meeting sufficiently the expectations of the opposition and the persecuted. This narrative was also extended by other elements. There were different concepts. But it is also true that today we are comparing ourselves with these benefits, and this state aid A modest one, at a rate of just a few million. To these achievements of the Third Republic in which they have already grown up, and praise God. Many people have acquired, so to speak, a certain wealth or even wealth, while those who fail feel not so much discriminated against as losers or even worse forgotten. But on the other hand, I repeat, in these chaotic legislative reflexes, the law on recognition as invalid, which is still in the game, has already been adopted in the Sejm, has set a much larger area of benefits than those which received other environments, because it treated them individually. The amounts that were falling there, I would not empathize with them, were high. I'm ending this discussion with the office, with the professor, with the government, to bring up the veteran affairs. I would like to point out that the value of these benefits was virtually no higher, the value of the benefit was a few pennies. Therefore, it is to be expected that this will also involve in the future, as regards the benefits that we today accept with such sympathy. And finally what I put in the question. Well, 50 million. It is true that there will be a greater influx of conclusions, but it is also true that these conclusions will gain real value, i.e. they will enter the apartments, into the pockets, only after 2, 3 months, can you count on September, October, because they will have to be strengthened, armed with IPN opinions, except those who have been granted the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. That is why I insist, Dear Ministers, who have shown good will and understanding here, you have even been able to get along with the Minister of Finance, not to lose those 50 million. If anything, it is the law that says, there is no committee here... that the Ministry may request that these funds be allocated to what is already, among other things. You do the head of Kasprzyk's office, which is medical care, maybe not only sanatoria, but also for local authorities what Senator Czerwiński is asking for so that they can carry this help, do what they hide behind the formula today, but I do not have to. And even I am kind to the Prime Minister, who, according to the government's declaration, is supposed to give special pensions out of a larger envelope, is a problem that this law does not solve. So with all those printers in mind, all those who have spent years sacrificing themselves and today can count on, if they have no other income, just 400 zlotys, maybe this reserve could go to the Council of Ministers Office and be supplemented to a greater extent. And finally, one last request. The Act, as we know, decided that the personnel warehouses of consultative councils, councils that were born throughout the year Not without conflicts, I don't think there should be any further conflicts If they are subject to the management board of the voivodship, at least by the end of their term of office they were, you can say, adopted by the voivodship. This is a request, above all, to opposition groups, that they do not have a policy different from that which was. Those advices have worked out. I myself am a member, although, I would say, lost in the vote of many good solutions, have integrated, so what the ministry expects has happened, and I believe that these two years could still exist in this personal form. And with this appeal for reason and peace in the combatant environment, I end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, you are right, Senator Jan Rulewski, that we are on a certain finale for which many people and environments have sought, among others. Senator Jan Rulewski or Senator Mammoths. We must say to ourselves that we should, as a parliament, and perhaps especially the Senate, feel a certain satisfaction at the moment, which also leads to a balance sheet and to the formulation of possible demands on the future of this closed solution today. As part of my balance sheet, I'd like to say Here I would like to argue again with the words of Mr.John Rulewski The law on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed in 1956 and 1990 is as close as possible to the law as possible. It could not be closer due to historical differences, for example, the law covering combatants from 1944 to 1956. This is another generation entering into a rhythm of our history, the rhythm of resistance to communism and the imposed power of Poland. Therefore, this dimension of dignity is clearly the most important dimension, although, of course, from the point of view of the legislators involved in the content of this law never disappeared the dimension which can be called social and which is the result of the fact that heroes are generally older and require the care of the state. This is also the logic of Polish history. We often remind you In such situations we can also mention that the insurgents of January were honored by the free and independent Polish state after 1918 and the top officers, the generals were to bow their heads, or salute, before the insurgents. So these dimensions. Dignity and socialism are, you can say, simultaneous, and are still somewhere behind the heads of Polish parliamentarians. It's a good thing that this is how it was designed. So much for the balance sheet. And now there's a vision of what's going on in front of us today. Well, there's no doubt about it. I don't want to say that it's only due to the authorities, because of course it's not; it's because of very, very many people. We don't have a problem today, at least a bigger problem in society, or at least the dominant is... Today, we have no problem qualifying heroes and traitors from 1944 to 1956, but we have a problem from 1956 to 1990. Well, I have the feeling... I would very much like this law in the form that we have worked out here in agreement between the two dominant clubs to serve as an educational instrument, an educational instrument to build a very important for us both on the scale of Europe and the world, not only within Poland, the ethos of people, Solidarity, ethos of people of the democratic opposition from 1956 to 1980, i.e. before the rise of the Solidarity. This continuity of Polish resistance, opposition to the communist regime, is an amazing value which constituted us, even if we were not active co-creators of this resistance, but only passive ones, as the majority of the nation, beneficiaries, it was so that we could talk about independent Poland today not with shame and lack of our own will to participate in this independent Poland, but as co-economy, all citizens. Because we had this continuity of resistance. There is still a very serious lesson ahead of us. A lesson that can be learned if we can extract the best of this very great generation, which practically since the National Democratic League... since the turn of 1956 and 1957 began to create resistance. After the Soldiers of the Cursed And it ended with yearbooks, generations of activists who created Solidarity Fighting. That's why I'm saying that we just celebrated the 30th anniversary of the uprising. This is a great challenge for us as part of the Polish society, which has been given a mandate or a Member or a Senator. Just as we have rebuilt the positive myth of the Cursed Soldiers, so now we are on our way to rebuild or building not only the positive myth of Polish attitudes in 1956 and 1989, but also indirectly to answer the questions: where was betrayal and where was patriotism, where was justice, and where there was shame and impunity, which in those years were so visible and binding. So I hope that this present law and what we are saying here today will serve both the reality that is growing directly from the law and the reality that has not yet been defined, because we are in the process of building it, i.e. this positive myth about another Polish generation, which has not given in to totalitarian regimes. Every generation, of course, had its own dynamics of action, had its challenges. And it's really not the fault of activists of Solidarity that they fought for free Poland in different conditions than the soldiers of the National Army or the National Armed Forces in the years of World War II. Both fought for independent Poland, and the conditions, of course, were defined not by the activists of Solidarity, but by reality independent of them, at least to a large extent. One last question, less conciliatory. Namely, I feel that today this reactivation of the good myth about people is all the more necessary because from my perspective at least Unfortunately, some of these activists of the "Solidarity" in free Poland did not work out. I don't want to point out with a finger who did it and who didn't do it in 2017, but I'm talking about the consequences of a very clear phenomenon in the Polish society today and a clear opinion about the fact that, since some of the great people once behaved this way today, was that solidarity so great... Well, this is an additional challenge... I know you probably don't understand it like I do, Senator, but it's not that simple. I didn't mean to give you any names either. However, the fact is that the living generations are also stuck in their contemporary mistakes, which we can relate to the past of those generations. This means working harder to avoid losing what is the acquis of solidarity just because not everyone has worked well in different operating conditions. I know that this sounds tragic, because they were largely murdered and the memory of them was killed. And we had to decrypt them, write their resumes from start to finish on clean paper. And in the case of the generation of solidarity, we will always be accompanied by the hump of the present. We need to beat him, and from what's our problem today, not make the determinants... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] I'm almost done. ... Determinants preventing us, so to speak, to capture this generation in the opinion of Poland, Europe and the world, because it was a very important generation on the way to destroying the Yalta system, destroying the camp of communist states. There's huge capital out there. And it's important that modern times don't kill that capital. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. The next speaker is Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak. This law, which we forget a little bit, was intended to serve anti-communist opposition activists, activists of Solidarity, who are in a difficult situation of life. That was her goal. When I first met Marshal Jan Wyrowinski from this place, I would like to thank him because he was the first person to come up with such an initiative. He invited me to join the team to propose this bill. The fact that I was later removed doesn't matter. I was the only person in the opposition who was invited to this team. A good project was created, which was later subject to various limitations, so that Senator Rulewski spoke about it. Only a few people benefited from it. It was just a bill that in many, many places was unacceptable to activists. I don't want to use strong words, but the activists accepted her so... I'll tell you the short part: they were offended by the fact that they were faced with such conditions that they had to walk around the offices and ask. I remember our conversation, Mr. Senator Rulewski, and the question is, why are you ruining this bill? Your words were that it would improve in the next term. And as soon as this term began, you came to me with a card, with a proposal for a bill, for which I thank you. You've done all this and we've moved on. I'm very happy today. Maybe it's been a long time, but the bill covers so many activists that you can only enjoy it. The head of the Veterans' Office, Mr. Jan Kasprzyk, who helped us a lot. Of course I won't... I can't not tell you about Senator Żaryn here, who was also very involved in this work. From this point on, I would like to thank everyone who contributed to this, because it is such a payment of our debt to the people that I can stand here, you, Mr. Senator, sitting here, and you, Mr. Janie, are sitting there. Thank you very much, ladies, because you've been interned. I feel it all because I've been through it, too. I hope that public finances will be in even better shape someday and help will be greater. Today, I think we've taken a good step forward, and for that, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u107	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We started working on this bill together in the previous term. Let me remind you that this was a joint initiative by the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice Platform. I'd like us to develop this bill together right now. I consider what has been submitted as a development of this law. Of course, there can be some doubts about some solutions, e.g. transferring certain competences to the voivodship, but I believe that anti-communist opposition activists, our underground colleagues, who are currently in a difficult material situation There are a lot of them in Poland, and appropriate benefits are due, not only to honorable but also to material benefits. This was the reason why we took up this work in the previous term of office, and this is the reason why we will support the good solutions contained in this amendment as a Civic Platform club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. I'm informing you... Mr. Senator wanted to sign up? [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u110	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, that I decided so late, because Mr. Marshal... [[There's still time.]] ...was actually closing the list of speakers. Thank you so much for letting me speak. I would like to say that I am glad that, after all, this bill that we are discussing today is finally coming to fruition. I welcome this for a very important reason, about which he spoke very clearly, among others. Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn. Namely, there is such an old rule, that if we do not respect those who brought to our common treasurer those values which were close to us for generations, it is difficult to expect us to build our own identity as a society based on the values that our heritage represents. And therefore, any action aimed at properly honoring those who once absolutely... And it is worth noting: they absolutely did not follow the thought that in the future the homeland would somehow reward them. I remember that as a young student from the second half of the 1970s and a man associated with the officially formed at that time, although this concept is, I would say, very contractual So-called. A democratic opposition... Well, that's what it's called. I remember perfectly well that no one then... Of course, there were dreams, but absolutely no one hoped that in the future it would be simply appreciated and somehow rewarded. So it can be said that this motivation was not based on calculation, whether it would be worth it in the future. On the contrary, involvement in opposition and opposition in the times of the Polish People's Republic has often been associated with very severe consequences, not only with the loss of job opportunities, career development or educational opportunities. Well, a lot of people were being repressed, especially in the 1950s or earlier, just in such a way that they simply did not allow them to study at universities and, in turn, their families were forced to move to an area where development opportunities were significantly reduced. So that there were a lot of individual cases and situations, but it's hard to say that we've dealt with such a situation that someone calculated that in the future he's gonna be pulling out a chest to which medals and awards will be pinned. That's not what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty of the country is to appreciate these people. I can only regret that the scope of this support is only what it is. I know there's been a discussion here before. The government has its position and arguments in this regard, but I think that over time, when the situation improves and budgetary opportunities are greater, it will be worth thinking about the whole support system for these people, so that we do not limit ourselves to providing 400 PLN in this amount, but also to look at this issue more broadly. And hopefully, just as we are organizing various areas of our country's functioning, because on the initiative of the Senate or the issue of decommunization of streets, or the issue of decommunization of public space as regards monuments or other forms of commemoration of those people who were connected with the communist regime... If this had to be done after almost 30 years, because it did not happen by itself, this support is also needed in this area and it can be regrettable that it is relatively late, because unfortunately many people will simply not live to benefit from the benefits of this law. And very many people were in very difficult conditions just after 1989, when it seemed that this dream, what they dreamed of, this change, democratisation, freedom That all this will finally bring such a life, I would say, normal. In their case it sometimes ended simply with very difficult conditions of everyday existence, loss of health and other consequences. So that I would like to express my appreciation from this stand for all those heroes of our independence who, in various ideological trends, marched in different opposition structures, sometimes separately, but all in one direction: to regain independence by the Lightest Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u111	Thank you. Senator Rooster will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear colleagues Interned! I am really very happy about this discussion, because the discussion is very calm, beyond political divisions. And really we, people of Solidarity, should speak all the time as in the Polish Senate: for the sake of the beloved country, for the sake of the Republic. You have to bow down to these heroic people of Solidarity, who really at this very difficult time, when exodus into the street threatened even arrests... You have to bow down the forehead that actually today the whole truth is told about all the heroes of the mine of Wujek, from Gdańsk Shipyard. I'm really happy for you. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, we really need to thank the senator. Don't let him leave. To Mammoths, because these people are already very old and really these people are leaving. Yesterday, in our Małopolska, a heroic boyfriend left, who fought for free Poland in.Solidarity, Jan Sikoń. And I would suggest that we celebrate a minute of his silence. Because it's a legend of "Solidarity," not only "Solidarity," but also "Solidarity Fighting." I would like to ask you to rise and honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] May he rest in eternal peace. [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Dear Lords, these people are very happy indeed. And really, as we discussed... I'm glad those perverts who really received the superb pensions... that we were in this Senate, at the time, led them to take away those pensions. There's a lot that the Senate has done. Minister, we thank you very much for leaning over this bill. Somehow we compensate. I know we can't make up for everything. And really, Mr PO President, Mr Klich, I call for such a spirit to be here at all times for the good of the Republic. Because today you have to say... [[I thought you'd say thank you, Senator.]] I'm not done yet. [[Uh-huh.]] I'm not done yet. I'm sorry. Don't interrupt, Mr. Senator, I'll say thank you all at the end. You have to remember that... we mentioned here a heroic boyfriend from Huta, Mietka Gila. S.B. welded it in a pipe, and the boy could have died. Mr. Senator, all ladies and gentlemen of the senators cordially, thank you for this fight for a free independent, beloved Republic. And those who acted against this solidarity, let them do a conscience check and be ashamed. Happy birthday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u113	You have a voice, Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to express my gratitude and thanks to the initiators of this legislative amendment, which, albeit late, is trying to appreciate this effort, this effort and dedication to the homeland, which were the participation of those for whom we are adopting this law today. It should be recalled that these people after 1989, instead of meeting with the right assessment and recognition, were very often underprivileged, felt legislative changes that sometimes deprived them of a roof over their heads. I'm reminding you of all kinds of changes in local law. The law governing these issues, the title of the law was formulated in the loudest words. The law on local law was called the law on the protection of tenants' rights... As a lawyer, I thought, since it was so noisy to change the title of the bill, there's probably a danger here that instead of protecting these tenants, their powers would be reduced to almost zero. And in fact, that's what happened. They often lost their homes. I am no longer talking about other legal solutions that caused them to lose their jobs as well. As a result, they often remained without a roof over their heads and without means to live, while their oppressors, the outbursts, enjoyed very high pensions, which they spent on a very prosperous life. They did not lose their homes or even their homes for rent. Now, even if their pensions have been reduced, they have sufficient additional livelihoods outside pensions. Therefore, these benefits, which have now been granted in the amount of PLN 400, although this is only a little above the level of symbolicity, must be greeted with applause. I believe that this is the next step in appreciating those people who created free Poland. I would like to remind you that also with the participation of the Senate, there has been a change in the Act on benefits for those who fought for the independent existence of the Polish state, we have introduced a change which allows for payment of compensation and compensation not only for the consequences of the execution of scandalous judgments of the martial law period, but also for the mere execution of the judgment. For something else is the result of the judgment There's a much narrower range of circumstances here. And something else is the consequences of the execution of the sentence, they are going further. This is what the previous law was talking about, narrowing down this responsibility by introducing other restrictions on this responsibility. I remind you that once upon a time it was possible to pay compensation either for the period of temporary arrest or for the period of execution of the sentence. Moreover, the jurisdiction of the courts was, I would say, scandalous, because many people had to go to the other end of Poland, because there was a court competent for the place where the original judgment took place. All these obstacles are removed one by one and we can finally say that we are moving towards normality. Although this state of normality will only be achieved if there are no such cases where the perpetrators enjoy a better material situation than those who carried the burden of fighting for the independent existence of the Polish state on their shoulders and ransomed it with prison, loss of work, often with a wolf ticket even for decades. There are many cases where people often had problems with finding a job until 1989 just because they were convicted in an oppressive communist system. It's a good thing we're putting an end to this. Congratulations to the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u115	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen Senators, the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I inform you that today the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the implementation of the program. In line with the previous announcement, the Senate's agenda for the current Senate meeting will be supplemented by this law after the interruption and after the preparation of the report on the matter. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u116	Communication: The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the review of the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u117	I declare an hour's adjournment until 14.20. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 20 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u118	I'm reopening the session. As announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme and considering it as item 8 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme. The text of the Act is contained in print No 532, and the report of the Commission In print No 532 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have received a copy of the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Life Programme. Work on this project lasted very briefly in the Sejm, and in the Senate practically a few hours. The result of the discussion, which lasted about an hour and a half, is that all the senators voted in favour of the bill without amendments. Before I present what specific solutions are about, I will tell you what is the genesis of the program and the law, i.e. the changes introduced in several laws. Let me remind you that in the autumn of last year, citizens' initiatives were considered to amend the law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion. Citizens' proposals were rejected at the time, but the government declared and committed that it would urgently adopt the Life Programme, which, through various aid solutions, would solve the problem of citizens' initiatives. Not through a ban, as proposed in citizens' laws, but through assistance, in particular to help families where a disabled child is born. At a very fast pace, the government has prepared a program called "For Life." It is included in the state budget and financed by PLN 511 million. A number of solutions are already being implemented. The programme is scheduled for specific months and some of the solutions should enter into force on 1 July this year. The rate of work in the Senate, that is, this exceptional haste, is linked to the fact that a number of solutions which should enter into force within this period, are precisely enshrined in the Law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the implementation of the program. And that's the basic argument for considering it as an extra point today. Of course, at the committee meeting, this was the subject. It has been said that for both this and any other law it is appropriate to carry out longer procedures. It is also important to be able to consult senators with different environments. The answer from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is as follows. The programme has been very intensively consulted, especially in recent weeks. The Minister pointed out various groups in which such consultations took place. This was a consultation of NGOs, particularly those dealing with the problems of people with disabilities, as well as other interested environments. What Settings Perhaps it would be more appropriate to say: what segments Are these changes relevant? First of all, these are changes in the education system law. These include helping pregnant schoolgirls and schoolgirls who need 24/7 care. It's about organizing this care. There are appropriate legal solutions here. Care and rehabilitation centres will also be set up for children with disabilities with a leading centre. This applies mainly to children up to the age of three, i.e. groups of children who have so far been the least represented in the system. As far as the Social Aid Act is concerned, it is mainly about sheltered housing. Thanks to this programme, the number of shelters will increase significantly. This number is expected to grow annually by 50 sheltered apartments as far as the programme itself is concerned. Of course, in addition to this, local governments create sheltered housing. Various NGOs also create sheltered housing, so that here we have significant growth and good direction when it comes to protected housing. It's gonna be housing and training, and target housing. Next, the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. It is about instruments that help adults who take care of people with disabilities to return to the labour market It's very important. But it also enables both the care of a disabled person, as well as employment, employment. Next, the Health Protection Act. Here are the arrangements for coordinating the care of a woman, which is in the so-called. Tough pregnancy. Here are the questions concerning milk banks. We were just talking, under another law... This law also immediately implements what we have discussed here in the framework of the European Directive. We stress that feeding natural milk, milk to women and mothers is important, and in special situations it is essential to create such milk banks. And such solutions are envisaged here. There are also solutions for early rehabilitation of children. The earlier children with disabilities, with different types of disability, are rehabilitated, the better from the point of view of their development, the protection of their health. Therefore, there are legal solutions that provide for this. Then the law on family support and foster care, mainly in the field of family assistants. The point is that they are subsidised and this funding period from the state budget ends. This period will extend as far as family assistants are concerned. So there are very important solutions here in several important areas. The discussion presented various problems related to these solutions, but the general vote from the senators was that these solutions were going in a very good direction, that they were very much needed. Even if there were any comments, and there were comments from the Legislative Bureau and invited representatives of NGOs... These were comments, not proposals for legal solutions in writing, which we could possibly take over as senators. The general tone of the speech was that these were desirable solutions, expected for more than 20 years. There's a very important road opening up here... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[I'm sorry. A moment of silence, please.]] In view of the time of our discussion, I will conclude on this, especially since we have with us the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who can provide all the answers to the programme in which the Ministry is extremely involved. The programme itself, as well as this law, were indeed at an impressively fast pace prepared by the government, which, I think, needs to be appreciated and emphasized by various partners. In the context of the Social Dialogue Council we discussed yesterday... The project was also consulted with the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u120	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe Senator Fedorovich has a question. [[No, no. He's got a solicitor's request for counseling.]] [[What happened?]] [[Dear Senator...]] Thank you very much. No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Yes, briefly.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm just briefly... I just want to explain a few things. First of all, as the rapporteur mentioned, the programme was adopted in December 2016. In March we started working on the first solutions, which are, of course, difficult because they relate to very different areas of life. Disability varies widely and at the same time affects the whole life of a disabled person, so the changes concern different laws and solutions. These changes are expected by the environment of people with disabilities for a long time and I think it is worth making an effort to make them come into force as soon as possible. The programme we are talking about is the obligation to report and update the programme. So the solutions we're proposing will be monitored. It will be checked to what extent they are functional, beneficial, to what extent they will work and, depending on the assessment, we will also update them. One last thing. The changes we have prepared have been discussed very closely, consulted. There was an agreement conference in which all the resorts that had comments or were concerned took part. It was very widely consulted with the environment of people with disabilities, so it took so long. However, it was so discoursed, so consulted that in the Sejm the law was adopted unanimously, which best indicates that it was not controversial, but opened up various types of opportunities to support people with disabilities and make their situation more friendly. So that these solutions are designed to make people with disabilities more able to exercise their rights, because we need to make our society more accessible to people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u122	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[Senator Libicki.]] Senator Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One quick question. I understand that the mode in which we take this is that the Minister is trying to make things right by making it up to date on the annual reports. But I would like to ask you about the following: will you, however, give us in the future, when we adopt similar laws, a little time for us to read the text so that we can formulate amendments if they are... Not that every hour we get a text that we're not able to get to know properly. Will that change in the future, at least in the area for which the Minister is responsible? [[Yeah, he's gonna change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u124	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, we have also managed to include this programme in the consultation programme, which is financed by European funds. He manages this programme by the President of the Council of Ministers. From tomorrow we start consulting, we will be in all voivodships, there will be 32 sectoral meetings. And from tomorrow, we start consulting the next package. We want it to enter into force only on 1 January 2018. So, of course, we are trying to start consultations as soon as possible, so that the situation allows all interested parties to speak and refer to these changes. The main law on which we are going to proceed at the moment will be the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We are thinking about changing the formula of the workshops of occupational therapy and about changing the employment supported, about reliefs and facilitations for entrepreneurs, about new instruments of professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. I hope that the new package will meet the expectations of the disabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u126	Senator Zdrojewska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u127	Yes. I'm in a hurry, because I know we're all in a hurry. Dear Minister, in this bill... I'd like to ask you this because I just went through the lyrics and I thought about it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 90v is said to: to carry out the tasks referred to in paragraph. 1, the Minister responsible for Education and Education may provide local government units with financial support in the form of a targeted grant. So it's a maybe, not a must. And that's what I'd like to ask. I would like to ask if this would discourage some local authorities from developing such programmes. I would like two or three sentences on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u128	That's right. Thank you, Senator, for the question. This can open opportunities for local governments. We want the tasks that these centres carry out to be financed in different ways. Here we say that it can be financed by a targeted grant, but it can be, for example. also from educational subsidies. And the other thing. Because it's a targeted grant, it's going to be She had to sign a contract between the governor and the voivode, which is why, of course... There is freedom to conclude contracts and there can always be a situation where the old man finds that he does not want to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u129	Thank you. No further questions. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] [[No further questions.]] [[There isn't. Thank you.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. No calls? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Good. I'm the one who's gonna say two sentences... [[Voices from the hall: Oh, no...]] [[But there's no marshal for a change.]] No, no, no... I would like to say that the bill does not cause controversy, all the more so because the rapporteur was a senator, whom I have full confidence in. But I have to rely on trust, because unfortunately there was no way to read the bill. I don't understand why this bill couldn't be dealt with next week. Thank you. There are no more votes in the discussion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voices from the Chamber: We vote, we vote.]] Don't rush me. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, five minutes.]] [[Five minutes.]] I've announced a ten-minute break... [[And then what?]] After the break, of course, there will be votes. There'll be a vote right away. There's not gonna be a lot of votes. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 17 to 15 minutes 27]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u130	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific rules for preparing for the implementation of investments in flood-related structures. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 513 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u131	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, they ask the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u132	Thank you very much. Does Senator Piotr Florek still want to speak? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister considered these amendments which were tabled to be justified and said that they would be taken into account during the revision of water law. Water law may be amended next year, and decisions must be made now. The Act concerns the construction of 1 radar. Unfortunately, according to these records, this applies to the flood structure, and the radars are not, so there will be complications. If there is an appeal against the decision taken by the voivode concerning the implementation of the investment, it is expected that this will be taken into account. And then the rush we're talking about is that the special act... Well, interesting specialty, it's not like it's practically 1 investment. Such a special act will be repealed, and then the process will be prolonged. It was necessary to use time; 3 months of the law was in the Seym, and at that time it was possible to process it in normal mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u134	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 9 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Rules of Preparation for Investment in Flood Structures. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. This is senate print number 525 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 78 in favour, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate, prepared a joint report on the matter, is published in print No 528 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Joint Committees, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, at its meeting on 22 June 2017, discussed the proposals made during the debate on 21 June on the Law amending the Act on Regional Audit Chambers and certain other laws and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals contained in points 7, 8, 9, 13, 14 and 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Flork, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment is designed to counter... to counter the over-indebtedness of local government units. And in the course of the discussion, this problem was clearly made clear that it is obviously not true not to tell a lie, because local governments have not been in debt for several years, they do not increase debt. It is therefore clear that it is practically one thing: according to the changes to be made, regional clearing houses will be subordinated to the government through those changes that... So the conclusion is simple: that the regional clearing houses after this amendment will not perform the functions they have had so far. Therefore, the proposal on our part is to reject this bad, bad bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u138	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Robert Mątkow, Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Andrzej Pak. I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if both proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 27 for, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 49 for, 32 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Regional Financial Chambers and certain other laws. We are returning to the discussion of the fifth item on the agenda: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance of parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU COM ((2017)253. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft opinion has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt the draft opinion in print No 520 S. We are voting on the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 59 for, 8 against, 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU COM ((2017)253. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 526 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the "For Life" programme. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 532 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted in favour, 77 in favour, no one voted against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, convened on 28 and 29 June, was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to speak? Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the senators, Mrs Grażyna Anna Sztark, Mrs Barbara Zdrojewska and Mr Piotr Flork, Mr Jan Rulewski and on behalf of my own, I address the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, In connection with the information on the persecutions against the trade union activists of the National Tax Administration, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to intervene in order to restore to the service persons serving in the Trade Union. According to the information sent by the Trade Union, using the changing provisions of the National Tax Administration, the attack on the largest free, local and independent Trade Union in the National Tax Administration was carried out after 1989. Many activists have been blackmailed on an unprecedented scale, even when offering further work. In the face of trade union activists, and in particular Mr Sławomir Grey, the chairman of the Trade Union of the Polish People's Republic, is used far-reaching chicanes, which is an analogy to the actions of the 1970s and 1980s, when the authorities were also kicking out of work for actions against the Polish People's Republic, only that at that time our country was not a free country. In this appalling case we share numerous opinions in the environment of the National Tax Administration that there was no major harassment against an independent trade union in free Poland. Therefore, I would ask you to thoroughly verify the activities of your department and its representatives, and in particular the role of Minister Marian Banasi, who is actively involved in this operation. We therefore ask you to answer our questions as to whether and what actions have been taken against those who are harassing trade union activists for their work to protect workers' rights. Thank you very much. [[That's the only one who's sinking the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Grodzki. [[Please, the bleachers are free.]] [[It doesn't show.]] Senator Grodzki. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also address the statement to the Prime Minister. As Senator of the Republic of Poland representing Szczecin and Police, I would like to inform you that on 14 June 2017. The International North-East Corps of Szczecin has been certified by the High Ready Forces Command, so-called. NATO poles, covering the theatre of operations from Estonia to Slovakia, the entire eastern flank. The ceremony, which is extremely important for the defence of Poland, was attended by many very high military rank, among others. Commander of NATO land forces, three-star General Darryl Williams of the United States, and all ambassadors of countries from which soldiers serve in the corps in Szczecin. The Polish army was represented by the head of the HR General Staff. I was surprised to conclude that there was no one from the Ministry of National Defence and from the Committee on National Defence of the Sejm and the Senate, which was quite succinctly commented. This attitude of the government to an important event, in a significant way changing the state of defence of Poland and NATO, should not take place, therefore I ask you to explain the situation. Thank you very much. [[Bravo.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u142	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending my senator's statement to the Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł and to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. The matter with which I address the ministers is quite sad and loud in Poznań. On 7 June this year, on the charge of corruption, the representative of the rector of the Medical University in Poznań was arrested. restructuring of the orthopedic hospital Professor Victor Degi. It's a well-known hospital in Wielkopolska, with a long history, a well-known facility. It's a shocking thing, 'cause At least that's what the media report says. A person who is an influential and close collaborator of the current university authorities has been detained. I therefore address both ministers with the following questions. First of all, is this case known to both ministries? Secondly, has any action been taken in relation to this situation? And if this has not been done, then I would like to ask you to take, of course, within the remit of both ministries, appropriate control measures, both for the hospital and for the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Anthony Szymanski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the Father's Day in Poland tomorrow, I would like to make a statement. Father's Day, June 23rd, is still a date less known than May 26, which is celebrated as Mother's Day, although it is its equivalent. Perhaps because talking about fatherhood is now a little passé in European culture, as if it was indisputable only the role of the mother, while fatherhood was an auxiliary value, not necessary, but useful. According to the classical song of Noah's Ark Children's Song today, "Mom" is not the same as Dad, it reminds us of the basic truth: that parenting consists of 2 equally important values, motherhood and fatherhood. A child needs a mother and a father to grow up in an atmosphere of love, draw gender patterns from both parents, and learn how to treat one another like a man and a woman. What exactly does a kid need from his dad? The Lublin initiative, dad.net, gathering thousands of fathers from Poland and Europe, on the basis of American and Polish research, points to the key characteristics of effective dads. These include: consciously and actively engaging in being a father; getting to know your children more and more; constancy of the father's character and faithfulness to the commitments made; ensuring safety and caring for the daily needs of the family; respect and love for the wife, the mother of their children; actively listening to the child and good communication with him; caring for the spiritual and moral development of children. How can these qualities be established and developed? This is what fathers learn during workshops, conferences and other events organized by Dad.net. These activities are gaining popularity in Poland. Men seek the idea of being a father in the 21st century, drawing patterns from the past, but not repeating old mistakes, while fleeing from contemporary tendencies to bring the father into the role of mum-bis and blurring the specific function of a man in the family. Slowly, but continually, awareness of the unique value of fatherhood in both family and social life is growing. Roles similar to fathers are performed by managers or politicians. Whether we like it or not, they are treated as a bad or good example to follow. That's why it's worth thinking about their role as leaders. Like a good father, they should have the ability and will of good communication, be faithful to promises, respond to real social needs, instead of pushing for substitute topics, respect partners, courageously act as authorities. Enjoying the fact that on June 23, paternity is becoming a subject of greater interest, I would like to wish all my dads a conscious experience of the gift they participate in. Fatherhood is the most important career in a man's life and you're pursuing it. Let the social conditions be good for you. Let them respect your dignity of culture, art and media. Let your employers appreciate you. Let them support the rulers. But most of all, I ask all of us to value men in discovering the role of hero for our children. I also wish the courage and peace of spirit to all those in society who perform their fatherly functions: those politicians, but also teachers, educators, pastors or managers. May there be a place in your actions for fatherly affection and commitment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. [[And Grandpa's Day?]] And Senator Janina Sagatowska. You're welcome. [[Fathers become grandparents. Say something about grandpas.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I address my statement to Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Dear Minister, I am approached by the environment of people with disabilities and their carers, who receive pension benefits and are therefore deprived of the right, according to the current state of law, to provide care. These people most often have very, very low pension benefits. Getting rid of them in the existing care provision law, when they make such a big effort to care for disabled people, to raise them, to force them to make superhuman efforts, to maintain, rehabilitate, to drive, to drive to doctors. I'm not going to tell you what a great deal of effort and effort it is, to all well-known people, including the government in which you are Minister. I also know that work has already been done in the past and that projects have been prepared taking into account the important request that care be granted to people receiving pension benefits. One of the projects provided that such persons could receive a care allowance equal to the difference between the amount of care provided and the amount of pension benefits collected. I would like to ask the Minister whether some work is underway at this stage in your department to finally regulate this issue and implement the expected demands of the carers of the disabled. On behalf of these people, I request that work be undertaken to grant such persons the right to provide care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u148	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Stanislaw Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The senator's statement is addressed to Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Minister, they asked me for the help of the councillors of the municipality of Niedźwiada in the district Lubartowski, Mrs Danuta Woźniak and Mr Stanisław Okolski, who are asking for the execution of the security on an unguarded railway crossing on the road of the commune no 103515L in Tarło. This route is located on a low road relative to the track line and the existing terrain, which limits the field of view and the possibility of seeing the approaching train, and this, as the councillors inform, is very dangerous. From 11 June this year, Intercity trains run through the railway crossing in Tarle due to the modernisation of the Lublin railway line. .Warsaw. All railway traffic, which so far passed through Dęblin, Pilawa, was directed by Lubartów, Tarło, Parczew, Siedlce, all the way to Warsaw. Rail crossings, however, their infrastructure, have not been modernised for this reason. Currently Lublin relations trains Warsaw is on this round road. This raises concerns about the safety of the locals, because the train ride is located at the school and the parish church and poses a huge threat not only to drivers, but especially to children. It is difficult for drivers to see the train coming when the traffic in this place is very high. Besides, the passage is located at the sharp corner. That is why I am asking the Minister to bring about a very rapid installation of light and fire alarms on dangerous rail crossings so that this passage is truly safe for both the inhabitants of Tarło and other road users. Please inform me of the Minister's position on this matter. Thank you very much. Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u150	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u151	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I would like to address the statement to the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski... Applications and numerous proposals are submitted to my hands, expressing great concern for mine workers: the Rydułtowy Mine, the Krupiński Mine, the Sośnica Mine. This concern arises from the information published on the website of the Ministry of Energy on 13 June 2017 by the European Commission on 18 November 2016, which accepted the aid scheme for the hard coal sector. The site has an original, English-language version published, as well as a translation into Polish. The document reads:.The coal mines form part of the Company for Restructuring of Mines, they have been transferred or will be transferred to SRK in order to liquidate. The Polish authorities have undertaken to transfer coal mining units listed in Table 7 to SRK. This table no.7 refers to: Kopalnia Węgiel Kamiennego.Sośnica, which belongs to the Polish Mining Group; mine In the following part of this document, in point 79, the Polish authorities confirmed that the sale of the abovementioned hard coal mining units to SRK is equivalent to the decision to liquidate them, i.e. the cessation of coal extraction and the closure of mines. The total cessation of production in these mines will take place at the latest by the date of their transfer to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. Since, under the authority of the Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, I was the head of the audit team of the Polish Mining Group mines, several of which were placed on this list, and none of these mines as a result of the audit was directed to liquidation, the post-audit proposals were presented with proposals for corrective and restructuring processes and a thorough analysis of the further functioning of these mines. Even in the most difficult case during the audit of the mine, the process of carrying out in-depth deposit analysis has been identified so as to determine the proper functioning and proper path of remedial processes for all mines, including those given in this table and in this table, this also raises my deep concern and opposition. I don't agree with the elimination of such a large part of the mines. I cannot comment on the mines belonging to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, because I did not conduct an audit in these mines, however, in the case of mines belonging to the Polish Mining Group my knowledge allows me to say firmly. I therefore address the following questions to Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski. On the basis of which documents and studies it was decided to direct these mines to the Company for Restructuring of Mines in order to eliminate them and stop production? Have appropriate technical and economic analyses been carried out on the continued functioning of these mines or on the possible cessation of their operation? What other circumstances have decided to make these decisions? Who, when and in what formula applied to the European Commission and who represented the Polish government before the European Commission? Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three statements. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. I ask you kindly to consider the possibility of changing the algorithm of the allocation of NFZ funds between voivodships. The funds allocated to the Mazowieckie voivodship do not take into account the existence in its territory of many specialized and nationwide medical centres, where patients are treated not only from Mazowsze and surrounding areas, but also from all over Poland. While money for these high-specialized medical centers is always guaranteed, the entire non-Warsaw district hospital, where county hospitals operate, is affected by the allocation of funds. The average labour costs in the Mazowieckie voivodship are high. The presence of Warsaw project, and it significantly, on all conversions for the voivodship. For years overexercising in the Mazowieckie voivodship, unlike in other voivodships, are paid by the NFZ only half of their value. This mechanism is also due to insufficient resources for Mazowsze. Therefore, I ask for an urgent change of the allocation algorithm between the voivodship, so that it takes into account the above mentioned higher labour costs and the presence of the Polish capital in this specific and important voivodship. The next statement is addressed to the Chairman of the National Judicial Council. I ask you kindly to inform me how many of the judges currently sitting on the National Council of the Court of Justice have already been judges during the period of the Polish People's Republic. What courts did they sit in, and what departments? If there are no appropriate statistics in the National Judicial Council, I would ask you to draw up an appropriate statement. The third statement is addressed to the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. My senator's office is addressed by people who experienced repression by the German occupier in 1939 and 1945. My interlocutors point to the problem of obtaining a valentine's allowance for forced labor for the occupation of a minor. The statutory records exclude a group of persons who carried out the above works and went to the place where they were carried out on foot from their place of residence. I would therefore ask you to indicate whether it is possible to amend this addition to include all young people led to forced labor in 1939 and 1945. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u154	Thank you. And here you are, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Foreign Minister, Mr Witold Waszczykowski. Dear Minister, A few months ago, Polish public opinion appalled information about attacks on Polish objects located in Ukraine, i.e. blowing up, devastation, desecrations of Polish monuments, cemeteries, diplomatic offices. The shooting of the headquarters of the Consulate General of Poland in Lutsk was on the one hand very dangerous, on the other Extremely insolent. It was an armed terrorist attack on Polish territory, the first so far and fortunately the only one. I therefore have a few questions for the Minister. First, has Polish criminal proceedings been initiated in these cases, in particular in the case of the shooting of the consulate in Łuck? If so, what are its effects so far? If not, why have these proceedings not been initiated? Secondly, did the Ukrainian party launch appropriate investigations into these incidents, including criminal proceedings? What are the results of the Ukrainian authorities' actions in this area? Are all the circumstances of these events explained, direct perpetrators and potential inspirations and motives for their actions settled? Please provide details of this information. Thirdly, what actions did the Ukrainians undertake to avoid similar attacks on Polish buildings and institutions in the future? How do you assess these actions, their reality and effectiveness? Fourthly, how do you assess the atmosphere currently prevailing in Ukraine, especially in relation to Ukrainians to Poland and Poles, to the Polish historical heritage remaining in Ukraine, to Polish historical monuments, monuments and cemeteries? Fifthly, how does the Minister evaluate Ukrainian historical policy towards Polish-Ukrainian relations during and after World War II? Are attempts to build Ukrainian historical awareness on the glorifying of the criminal organisations of the CNS and UPA, their creators and members of the about street names, construction of monuments, the activities of the Ukrainian IPN, met with the appropriate reaction of the Minister as head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Please indicate and quote appropriate statements, positions, documents, etc. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, it's about speeches and official documents. And one last thing. Minister, isn't it time to change Poland's foreign policy towards Ukraine? On the one hand, we are the state's attorneys in his efforts to become a member of NATO and the European Union, and we are suffering material losses as a result of the embargo imposed on us by Russia. On the other hand, we observe manifestations of hostile Ukrainian and Ukrainian policies towards Poland. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-22-senat-43-2.u156	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Office of Senate Works, room 255. Forty-third sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 07]]
