ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u1	Resume session. High Seym! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Seym! Last Wednesday we received information about the death of Fr. bp. Kazimierz Ryczan, bishop of the senior diocese of Kielce. Fr. Bishop was an undisputed authority of theological sciences, a member of the Council of the Permanent Conference of the Polish Episcopate and the Order of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. In 2009 he was awarded a gold medal by President Lech Kaczyński for his long service. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. I would like to appoint Mr Kubov and Mr Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Protocol and list of speakers will be led by Krzysztof Kubów. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u2	I would like to inform you that the Committee on Petitions will meet today at 3 p.m. 12.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u3	After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 36.: First reading of the Government draft power market law (print No 1722). The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Armed Forces. This is printing number 1832. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The opinion is in print No 1787. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on the change in the membership of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group, - on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, - on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Boards. Applications shall be printed in 1831, 1828 and 1829 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. At the moment we are considering item 40 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Armed Forces (print No 1832). I would like to inform you that, at this moment, we are listening to a delegation of National Armed Forces soldiers in the persons of your Captain. Władysław Stefański, sir. Leszek Zabłocki, Major. Władysław Mroza, Mrs. Capt. Maria Kowalewska and Mrs. Lor. Wanda Woś-Lorenc. Welcome. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] [[Some Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Hello and glory to the heroes!]] Allow me to read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Armed Forces. On 20 September 1942, the National Armed Forces were formed. They've been counting from 80 and 100 thousand soldiers. They were the second-largest military formation of the Polish underground of independence after the Home Army. In 1944 they were mostly integrated with the National Army. The soldiers of the National Armed Forces fought for independence of the Republic of Poland against both German and Soviet invaders. NSZ troops were famous for their participation in many guerrilla battles, fighting alone or together with AK troops. Under Evacuation, Michałowice, Oleszn, Radoszyce, in dozens of actions the release of prisoners from Gestapo's arrests, as well as in actions aimed at defending civilians against the criminal and looting activities of armed robberies. The troops of the National Armed Forces took part in the action 'Burza' and in the Warsaw Uprising, fighting side by side with the troops of the National Army. NSZ soldiers never accepted Poland's conquest by the Soviet Union and the imposition of its communist power. Some of them, along with the NSZ Świętokrzyskie Brigade, made their way to the West. Many continued to fight in the ranks of the National Military Union and other guerrilla troops for years to come. NSZ soldiers paid the highest price for their loyalty to the idea of independence. They were tortured and murdered by communist oppressors, and the burial sites of many of them remain unknown. On the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the National Armed Forces of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland recognizes that this formation well deserved the Homeland. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the National Armed Forces. At the moment, you have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 request for interruption [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] - a break in the proceedings in order to obtain information from the Prime Minister about the activities of the Polish National Foundation, because we are certainly dealing with a scandal, with a scam invented by very capable and experienced crooks. You've just invented a money launderer designed to burn out state money for your party propaganda. On Monday, at our request, this matter will be dealt with by the PKW. There are a number of questions that should be answered by the board of this foundation and the board of this foundation, but there are also a number of questions that should be answered by the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! First of all, Prime Minister, was this a government campaign? To answer that question, please answer immediately who is lying about it. Is Marshal Terlecki lying, or is Minister Wójcik lying? Because they miss their testimony.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u5	Mr President, your proposal is not related to the current deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u6	Secondly, did Minister Kowalczyk supervising the services know that the companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u7	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u8	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u9	Mr President, your proposal is not a formal proposal because the formal proposals may concern the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u10	But I'm counting on the Prime Minister to respond to that conclusion, to that, and... [[Minister Kowalczyk does not oversee the services.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u11	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to interrupting your speech because it is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u12	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I'm not gonna ask all these questions, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u13	I'm gonna have to take your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u14	The Prime Minister has said many times: Just don't steal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You steal so much that you can't... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u15	Mr President, please leave the speaker, because I cannot consider your speech to be a formal proposal. And I urge you to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u16	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Members and Members, I wanted to do it according to the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 ask for a break, that Minister Szyszko come here to us, to the speaker, and tell us, and explain... [[Voice from the hall: On break?]] ...and to draw the consequences of the guards who beat up Mr. Łukasz from the Camp for the Forest in the Bialowieza Forest. [[Don't lie to me.]] And the Prime Minister who's coming here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And he will settle Minister Szyszko's unlawful actions... [[Don't lie to me!]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's case of violence against an activist is the tip of the iceberg. Activists have experienced the last four months of twisting hands, jerking...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u17	Your statement is also not related to the course of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u18	...blowing down on the ground, smashing on the ground with your knees, deliberate car deductions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u19	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tolerate this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u21	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u22	Guards beating people up, ladies and gentlemen... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u23	I ask you, Madam, to leave the speaker, because this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u24	...there's evidence of it. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to be like a zoo? [[Applause]] You want a rerun from Igor Stachowiak? Ladies and gentlemen, years and years...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u25	I'm very sorry, ma'am, but this is not a formal conclusion. Please refer to the committee or to the committee in a regular manner, but not in this way, because the formal proposals, I would remind you once again, can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. Thank you, Member. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 1 of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers on the measures taken in connection with the situation resulting from the strong winds and heavy precipitations that took place in August 2017. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. The question is asked by Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u26	Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, Toninek village. The house was the most injured, the roof was broken off from the apartment building, the family was in the apartment that night, in the house, three children. It ripped the roof off the apartment building. 6,000. zł help from the municipality and nothing from the government. Sorry, six buckets: three buckets of paint and three buckets of spatula from PGNiG. That's the scale of the help that the residents are getting right now. There's one more thing. A new kind of special forces, military forces, invisible troops. You can see them, the people can't see them. The River Cow, which is supposed to be erected - there was no one there - flooded several dozen houses at the moment. During this time, Minister Kownacki organises a private military parade in Bydgoszcz in his honor - in his honor - where among others. Defiling the logistics unit. People who should be helping at this time, August 15th, among others. in Tonink, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're defiling the Minister. Congratulations on the organization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u27	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u28	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Members and Members, It's been a month since the storm in Pomerania and Wielkopolska. Six families mourn their loved ones all the time, many thousands of families have lost everything or almost everything. Instead of the government and troops, Pomerania and the whole of Poland and volunteers from the Polish Red Cross and Caritas came to help. And the government fell asleep. The local government, together with the firefighters and the police, stood at the level of the task, and the crisis headquarters was chaos. The army appeared only after 3 days, Minister Macierewicz marched instead of ensuring safety, and the voivode Drelich, a Pomeranian voivode, was partying with the bishop. Today, the residents are still waiting for help. I have these questions: Will you exempt farmers from agricultural tax from this area and refund this tax to municipalities from the central budget? Will there be faster payments of advances for direct payments for 2017? And will there be subsidies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] per hectare per seed for farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u29	Thank you, Member. The formal proposal is submitted by Andrzej Halicki. Is he referring to this point, sir? [[That's right, that's the point.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Because during the presentation of the information, the Minister said the wrong thing, and we will vote against this information, I would like to once again, on the basis of the article. 184, get a response from the Minister. I would like to quote a statement which operators issued after information in which the Minister suggested that the Regional Warning System could not be implemented with the participation of teleoperators, it is about sending text messages. Two operators submitted their views on the matter. Operators, confirming the letter of intent of 25 June 2015, implementing this system and this possibility on 1 July 2015, stress that, given the broad public interest, they expressed their willingness to participate in the Regional Warning System project. The purpose of the letter of intent itself was to express the intention to cooperate and to determine the conditions for this cooperation within the RSO project. The parties have appointed the Minister as coordinator - today the Minister, because you have taken over these competences. All costs related to the implementation of the cooperation shall be borne by the parties themselves. Operators - here mentioned name - are technologically prepared to implement the provisions of this letter of intent and to conduct real-time SMS communication, i.e. today. Minister, if you can't apologize, at least don't lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u31	Mr President, where is the formal proposal here? [[He was at first.]] [[Punishment!]] I read this article from A to Z, from my mouth. 1 to paragraph 1 Nine, and that's out of the question. I'm very sorry, sir, but please don't abuse this mode again to... Actually, it was a controversy with the Minister's statement. I would like to remind you that I will put the request for information to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the information, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 227 voted against - 176, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the information. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of the Interior, is asking for the floor at the moment. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the vote has already taken place... [[Exactly. So what's the point?]] ...but I would like to highlight one basic thing. On Tuesday, I presented information on the actions taken by the services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration immediately after the storm... [[That's nice.]] ...on procedural facilitations related to the renovation and reconstruction of buildings on farms through which storms have passed, on increased financial assistance - increased by the Government of Law and Justice. I also said that today we are already after the loss estimation stage for residential buildings and economic buildings. I was talking about the fact that in the accounts of local governments, voivodships, mayors or city presidents, there is money transferred by the government to the extent requested by representatives of local governments. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I was talking about the fact that due to the law in force in Poland... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...with the Crisis Management Act, these activities belong to local governments. You often stress the very positive role of local authorities, but in this situation you forget one basic issue: if you have requests for intervention, if they are addressed to you by the residents, then the mayor or the president is responsible for the operation of the compensation mechanism... [[Mr. Marshal, how did the Minister speak?]] ...just for those who were injured during the storm. So direct these requests to the mayors, mayors, or presidents. If there is slowness on the part of local governments, please pay attention to this to the voivods. Mr. P.O. said it was 6,000. PLN was paid by the local government. It was money transferred from a disaster fund, which is at the disposal of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. As far as changes in the law are concerned, a team has been set up. By the end of September, the team will prepare recommendations to the Council of Ministers. Cases concerning RSO, there is such a proposal, we want to settle by amending the Telecommunication Law Act. These are projects that will be presented to the Council of Ministers and then to the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u33	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints 1778 and 1787). Following the expiry of the mandate of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Lech Morawski, on the basis of an article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (2) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Justyn Piskorski as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present his candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present Professor Justyn Piskorski's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Justin Piskorski was born on 9 January 1971 in Kożuchów. In 1995 he graduated from the University of Laws. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. In 1998 he graduated from a Master's degree in comparative law at the Rhine University. Frederick Wilhelm in Bonn. In Poznań he conducted a prosecutor's application. In 2002, after his doctoral studies, he received a PhD in law at the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. In 2014, he obtained a degree of doctor of habilized legal sciences. Dr. hab. Justin Piskorski is scientifically involved in criminal law, criminal policy and criminal policy, international and European criminal law. He is the author of several dozen publications on these issues. He is also the author of many lecture cycles involving the development of curricula and general course structures. Currently he is employed at the University im. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. On 1 September 2017, he was appointed Head of the Department of Criminal Law of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Adam Mickiewicz. Since 2003 he has been an expert at the Sobieski Institute. In 2004, he became a member of the Council of the University Legal Advice Foundation, as well as a member of the Programme Board of the magazine "Klinika" in connection with his involvement in clinical teaching. Since 2013, he has been a deputy editor of the leading periodical Humanities Scientific Books - Human Rights. He was also appointed to the supervisory boards of several companies. He's a member of several scientific societies. In 2017, he was appointed to the Scientific Council of the Institute of Judicial Experts. Prof. Dr. Jan Sehn in Krakow, where he was elected Vice-President of the Council. This year he was also appointed for a second term to the Board of Curators of the Kórnickie Plant Foundation. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Justyn Piskorski is a good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u35	Thank you, sir. I would now ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights at its meeting on 13 September 2017 after having read the proposal just presented by the applicant, hearing the candidate and after extensive discussion unanimously welcomed the candidacy of Prof. Dr. Hab. Justyna Piskorski as judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u37	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that you have come to the debate, and therefore I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Budka, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is another installment of the performance, which you are proposing to Poles in the discussion about the justice system. This is another installment of this performance, in which you are building another pseudo-institution, this time the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You promised the Poles that you would reform the tribunal. From this speaker were words that turned out to be utter nonsense and lies. The Constitutional Tribunal does not function. You made a party outbuilding just so your colleagues could go for coffee and cookies to the president of the tribunal, which is in fact a pseudo-rezes, so that they could go to a double judge who pretends to be a vice president, but above all, you made an institution that makes it appear that your legislation is in line with the constitution. Today's show, which you're giving Poles, isn't important. The Constitutional Tribunal has no seat at the Constitutional Court since the Constitutional Tribunal decided in December 2015 on the validity of the election of three judges of the Tribunal. You lie about reality, just as you lie about fake helping the victims of storms, just as you lie about explaining all accidents involving government limousines, just as you lied to the Poles that you would uncover the death investigation. Igor Stachowiak. The PiS becomes a country of one party. The country where the PiS MEPs go on trips to the tribunal. And that's what you want the justice system to look like. [[But what are you yelling about?]] These pseudoreforms of yours, on which you have already spent 19 million of Polish taxpayers' money... [[Voice from the room: What are you screaming about?]] ...to convince Poles that there's some kind of reform. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Tribunal, as in the lens, brings together these pathologies. You want them to take place in the justice system so that the PiS activists can go to the courts after the judgments. If anyone gets unlucky and judges a councilman from PiS with an activist of your party, you will apply exactly the same mechanism to every court. There will be trips, just like Members do, and I will not mention names, because it is a waste of time. But you showed that for you state institutions exist only to fill them with PiS activists. Instead of the rule of law, you have a PiS state in which the justice system is to be subject to the only legitimate authority. The Civic Platform will not participate in the next stage of the circus [[♪ The bell ♪]] and building a pseudo-institution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u39	Thank you, sir. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the moment, we are having a discussion on the candidacy that has been put forward, and that the subject matter has been somewhat broadened by your speech. So I would ask the next speakers to speak to the point. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not our goal to participate in a dispute that has warmed up our country for 2 years, which has been destroying our country for 2 years. We just wanted to remind you that even the Venice Commission has already supported, clearly said that the election of members, judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should be done in a way that is inter-party or at least one-party, i.e. that 2/3 of Members should elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. We have tabled an amendment in this regard. Unfortunately, to this day no one has even begun to discuss this matter. I would very much like us all to understand that the continuation of the war for the Constitutional Tribunal destroys our state and weakens the authority of this important body, that without dealing with the fundamental matter, unfortunately it will be as it is. I would also like to say that it would be good to introduce a permanent custom, which Mr. Prof. Piskorski maintained, visiting parliamentary clubs and presenting his legal views. I believe that such a thing should be permanently introduced into the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Professor, for visiting. This will certainly affect some of our fellow Members. On the other hand, we believe that voting should take place only on the legal views of the candidate concerned and not on party membership. We therefore call once again to return to the roots, in other words, for the cross-party election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And I would ask that we go back to the discussion, not the war. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u41	Thank you, sir. Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us recall the basic fact: the deceased Professor Moravian was not a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, he was just a double who was elected to the seat taken. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Sejm cannot choose another judge. Today, the movement is on the President's side, who should take a vow from at least one of the three properly elected judges who were elected in autumn 2015. Today's case is a test of the President's intentions, whether he will stop breaking his constitution and fulfil his constitutional obligation by taking a vow, or whether he will continue to remain a passive PiS officer in this matter. Let us remind you of the words of Professor Jan Zimermann, PhD promoter Andrzej Duda, who already made it clear in autumn 2015: I can tell you what he should do. After the judgment of the Tribunal, it is his duty to swear in three judges elected by the previous parliament. These words are still valid and still apply to all the judgments of the Constitutional Court of autumn 2015. This judgment makes it clear that there is no legal basis for choosing a double judge today. Moreover, according to the article. 7 constitutions state bodies operate within the limits and on the basis of law. This means that PiS politicians are also obliged to act in accordance with the letter of the law, unless they are just a caste above the law. High Izbo! As for the candidate himself, whom PiS presented, it is enough to quote some of his statements. Mr Piskorski seems to be a person who should not perform any state function. On the basis of reading one of the texts by Mr Piskorski, one can get the impression that he is simply a supporter of violence and aggression in the family. I quote: We are currently observing a further attempt on paternity in the form of various legal acts aimed at combating violence in the family. So, in the opinion of PiS, is fighting violence in the family an attempt on paternity? High Izbo! Someone who makes such claims should be in the gallery of 19th-century peculiarities rather than among those who any party puts to any position in a public institution. In view of the fact that the Sejm has no possibility to elect a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal today, since all seats in the Constitutional Court are now filled, the Modern will not take part in this vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u43	Thank you. Mr Marek Ast, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u44	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As the previous statements of the total opposition do not refer to the point, because they are completely next door and not about the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, I am speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and I want to support clearly the candidacy of Prof. Justyn Piskorski. Due to his qualities, his professional experience, his education is absolutely, definitely excellent candidate for the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote for this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u45	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, However, Mr Marshal, I would ask for equal treatment of all Members present at this point in relation to what they say. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are behind two years of shocks within the Constitutional Court and the wider judiciary. Today, I think, there is a good time to ask myself: Is the Constitutional Tribunal and the Polish judiciary working better after these 2 years? Can Poles hope for better protection of their rights, freedoms, and freedoms after these constant shocks? No, I'm afraid not. The truth is very brutal. The Constitutional Tribunal is increasingly less frequent in issuing judgments. More and more confusion around the tribunal and strange situations, often reported by the press. There is also a second question today: must this be the case? I'm looking to the right of this room. I think it would be worthwhile to return to the idea that a few months ago the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party submitted. It is still possible to work on a consensus law, so that at parliamentary level try to find a way out of this terrible situation, which above all, and I think that this is what Poles are beginning to talk about, is negative for them. Poles see, ladies and gentlemen, that from this promised improvement in the operation of justice, from the very top to the lowest district courts - it is best to see in the District Court in Warsaw, what is happening - it is not good. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my request on behalf of my club, the PSL Parliamentary Club, for us to return to the idea of a consensus law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u47	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u48	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I will start with the first quote, repeating with Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We are currently observing a further attempt on paternity in the form of various legal acts aimed at combating violence in the family. Second quote: Violence in the family is a false concept. The authors of these two quotations are the candidate for Law and Justice, or a group of Members from Law and Justice, to the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask you from this place, and at this point I would like to ask: Is it? Do you really think, having read the very rich accounts of what was happening behind the door of the Councilman's house of Law and Justice, Mr. Rafał Piasecki of Bydgoszcz, that violence in the family is a false concept? We have all heard, unfortunately we have heard, with horror, what happened at the home of one of your activists, what in practice is domestic violence, violence by the father, violence by the husband against the helpless woman. [[That's what a candidate for a tribunal does?]] Another quote from Mr Piskorski: Education offered in co-education schools is only a source of problems. And finally, Professor Piskorski, candidate for judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, used to use a very chauvinistic phrase about the culture of male domination. Poles listening to us today, this debate, may ask: How could such a person be proposed as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? And that question should be addressed to this part of the room, to the part of the House composed of Members of Law and Justice. They may ask the second question: How did such a candidate happen to have received, as we have heard from the rapporteur, a unanimous, positive recommendation from the Committee on Justice? [[Ask your friends.]] Firstly, because the opposition Members did not take part in this vote and in this discussion for reasons, as the previous speakers said... [[Because they didn't want to.]] [[They went for a beer.]] ...for fundamental, essential reasons: because we are voting for a double to replace a double. But why would that happen? - also ask the President, Mr Peterowicz, President of the Committee on Justice. Apart from the inconvenient, despite the discrediting and unacceptable views of Professor Piskorski, we believe that such a man should not be a judge at the Constitutional Court - not only because of his views, but also because it is the choice of a double to replace a double, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a violation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which the Prime Minister did not want to publish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u49	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Before the vote, I would like to remind you that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Justyn Piskorski's appointment as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Justyn Piskorski as Judge of the Constitutional Court, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 269 Members voted. The absolute majority is 135. There were 248 votes against - 3, 18 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Justyn Piskorski as judge of the Constitutional Court. [[He didn't choose. He's an understudy.]] We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft Health Protection Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland against the consequences of solarium use. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1770-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, who I would like to ask for an additional report from the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Commission recommends adopting all three amendments tabled to the presidential bill. Amendments 2 and 3 are orderly in nature. Amendment 1 is substantive in nature and implies that the new rules prohibit the making available of solariums to minors, i.e. persons up to the age of 18. In order to avoid further misunderstandings, an additional provision specifies that the use of ultraviolet lamps is permitted for medicinal purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u51	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee is proposing. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the applicant by the addition of paragraph. 2 propose that the provisions of the Act should not apply to devices used in the provision of health services. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 433, against no one, and 5 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose, inter alia, that the competent authorities may, in case of doubt, require a person using a solarium to present a document confirming its age. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 433, against - 1 and 6 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1770, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 428 voted against - 4, 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. We return to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Code of Offences Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1748. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1748, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 432, 1 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Offences Act. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 1750. The Sejm at its meeting of 12 September 2017 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1760 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 13 September 2017, requests the High Sejm to reject the 1st amendment. This is an amendment that aims to delete the article. 2. This article states that the provisions of this amendment should apply from the date of entry into force of the Home Act, the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I will remind you that it entered into force on 28 December 2016. Amendment 2 concerns the addition of Article. 2a: to judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who have retired from the date of entry into force of the Act as amended by Article. 1. Article 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 48 of the Law of 23 November 2002 on the Supreme Court. The Commission proposes that this second amendment be accepted. And here I would like to make some legal arguments to the High House. In fact, in many laws relating to state services, the transfer to rest causes persons who are transferred to receive a one-off check of six months' wages. This also applies to other provisions. In the case of e.g. general court judges in Article. 100 § 4 is such a provision that, if the courts of the general courts retire, they are entitled to this one-off six-month check-in. In the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, which took place on 12 July this year, these provisions entered into force on 12 August, art. 100 § 4 was also maintained. The same is true of the provisions of the Law on the Supreme Court of 2002, where there was also a provision which was included in the article. 48. Also in the Law on the Supreme Court of 20 July 2017, this law vetoed by the President, there was also a provision that provided that the Supreme Court, which was going to rest, should also be briefed. It is therefore difficult to accept that these one-off checks, six months, should not concern the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, since this was the case in the previous Constitutional Tribunal laws - in the Law of 25 June 2015, the Law of 22 July 2016 also referred to those provisions concerning the Supreme Court. On the other hand, there was an incorrect reference to only Article in the Home Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. 43.45 concerning the Supreme Court. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights therefore recommends that the High House adopt this amendment. Finally 3. the amendment concerns the term "vacatio legis," a minimum period of 14 days. This amendment also deserves to be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u53	Thank you, sir. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee has tabled in its additional report. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes, I remind you, to delete the article. 2 providing that the amended provisions shall apply to events arising from the date of entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As we have heard, the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 56 voted against - 235, with 142 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a providing that a provision setting out the remuneration of judges of the Supreme Court shall apply mutatis mutandis to judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who have retired from the date of entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 3 with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose that the law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 28, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the project as a whole, Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club, submitted a question15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Why is this not envisaged in the original bill? Why do we allow this to be a nervous, thoughtless procession? Then the legislation that has been recently adopted must be improved so as not to harm specific people. I would therefore propose that we keep this in mind and focus on the quality of the law in the future, not on the politicality of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u55	I would like to thank the Member for this question. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1760, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 409 voted against - 8, 25 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft State Enterprise Act We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1711 but also presents a minority proposal. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u56	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I wanted to address the question to 25 Members, the drafters of this law, and the rapporteur. What have they sinned at, what has been done by the employees of the State-owned company, the Airports of Aviation, that they are deprived of all rights, that the airport company loses one of its characteristics, namely that the company ceases to be a self-government company? Question for the Prime Minister. When the present government made a business pact concluded by the governing and trade unions in 1993, which guaranteed employees to participate in the management of the company, and here for educational purposes, regardless of the organisational form of the company, because such a guarantee was provided for the state enterprise and its employees, for a company governed by commercial law, e.g. a European company or a European investment group. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the employees of the State Company that the Airports are received by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u57	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Voices from the room: What's the answer?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 438. The vote was 180, against - 231, with 27. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the minority proposal to Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicant proposes that the tasks of the Supervisory Board should include continuous supervision of the activities of the PPL and in particular the activities listed in that provision. We move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 69, against - 358, abstained six Members. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... Before we proceed, the questions are raised by Members. Member Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This law creates a new type of legal person, which is a state-owned undertaking equipped with a specific structure of the authorities. I do not want to refer here to the theory of legal persons, etc., because it will be the subject of interest of law students who will be taking care of the legal person, because the idea, as proposed in this law, had no one, I think, for 100 years, as Prof. Longchamps de Bérier in Lviv talked about the legal person. Prime Minister! This law contains solutions which are criticised by representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, representatives of the Chamber of Experts. You are using a conceptual network in this law that makes this law incomprehensible. This bill will be difficult to apply. Certain provisions under this law cannot be fulfilled by incomprehensible provisions. The question is, why such a creation and where such a creation came from, because it certainly does not come from the law under which Members are signed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice, from the government, because a representative of the government responsible for the second reading was basically talking about this law, and this statement showed that he did not know what he was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u59	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u60	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Airports are a strategic company. Manages e.g. the largest Polish airport at Okęc in Warsaw. This parliamentary project is an inefficient attempt to change the system of this vital to the economy of the entity's country. As a result, there will be a kind of hybrid, a structure located between a state-owned company and a company governed by commercial law. New bodies have been introduced here, whose competences intersect each other. The Act also limits the privileges of the Crew's self-government, as was mentioned just now. In a word, it is an experiment which cannot be conducted on the strategic assets of the State Treasury for the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u61	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1711, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 230 votes against - 185 and 26 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law on the state-owned company We would like to refer to item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, the European Parliament and the Immunity Committee on the application of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński of 7 March 2017 to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Bartosz Kownacki criminally liable. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable only with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Bartosz Kownacki. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the proposal to allow Mr Bartosz Kownacki to be held liable. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the request of private prosecutors: Mariusz Witczak, Jan Grabc and Marcin Kierwiński for consenting to the criminal liability of Mr Bartosz Kownacki for the act specified in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Scandal!]] [[Applause]] 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. 159 Members voted against - 242 Members, 22 Members abstained. [[What are you afraid of?]] [[You.]] I state that the Sejm, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, has passed a resolution on not allowing Mr Bartosz Kownacki to be held liable. We would like to return to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on reconstruction and technical modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1757-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u62	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement. Following the examination of the amendments tabled at second reading, the National Defence Committee met on 13 September. The Commission proposes that the High House, which was tabled at second reading, reject three amendments and therefore adopt the draft law without amendments. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a law that will undoubtedly be a symbolic act. She will be particularly important, especially important from the point of view of the future of security of Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! In this bill we increase defence expenditure in our country to 2.5% GDP by 2030. This is really a very important and probably historic moment and historical decision. We will also decide that the Polish army, the Polish army, will be increased to 200,000. soldiers. This is why I would recommend that you adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u63	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that this is about a draft print bill No. 1757. The amendments presented in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 and 2 and minority proposals from 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 3. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, will raise your hand and press the button... Yes? There's a question. I'm sorry. To this amendment, the question is raised by Mr Czesław Mrozek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, indeed, we are dealing with symbolic changes. Namely the Minister of National Defence and the government of this law want to reduce the number of professional army in Poland. Under the motto of increasing the number of Armed Forces, the number of territorial defence forces is increased, while the number of professional army is reduced. Minister Macierewicz is expanding the Territorial Defence Army, whose potential... [[Diversion.]] ...we may have seen recently during the storms in the north of our country. Those troops weren't involved in the rescue. [[Applause]] although they have been set up to act in such a situation. Volunteer firefighters can help those in need of assistance in other voivodships, and this army could not move to help the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment defends the professional army in Poland. Who's in favor of a professional army that's able [[♪ The bell ♪]] defend Poland, should vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u65	Thank you very much. Now you are asking questions from Mrs Anna Siarkowska, near the Republican.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u66	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to protest strongly from this place at the beginning against those words and the lies that fell out of this pulpit, [[Applause]] because it is simply unthinkable that in a situation where the Civic Platform has been blocking the formation of the Territorial Defence Army throughout its reigns from a real event and when the Territorial Defence Army has not really had a chance to build up so far, you are politically using this case... [[What are you talking about, woman?]] ...and you're actually lying to the public about this, [[Applause]] That the Territorial Defense Army had a duty to act there. They couldn't work because they haven't been made yet. [[What did the money go for?]] So I'm asking for a minimum of honesty. [[The money's been spent.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The territorial defence forces in this region are not here yet, unfortunately, because of you. Shame. [[Applause]] [[So where's the money?]] [[Who's lying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u67	We'll proceed with the vote. The rapporteur wanted to? But I apologize, sir, but the questions are for you... Was there a question for the rapporteur? [[Voices from the room: There wasn't.]] It wasn't. Mr President, there was no question to the rapporteur. [[It was. How wasn't it?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 202 voted against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1b. The question is asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Are we gonna have to revise this bill in two years? For a simple reason. Namely, this law on military funding in the next two years does not change anything. It's still gonna be 2%. As the bill says. On the other hand, the parliamentary amendment proposed by the club in this regard said that if there was a budget deficit, it would certainly be 2.05% defence expenditure. I was surprised to see you raise by 0.5%. expenditure on arms did not cause opposition from other ministers, e.g. education and science or health. I mean, it's just the 0.5%. we will have to move from other budgets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand it didn't happen because it couldn't happen in two years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u69	Thank you. Another question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u70	Ladies and gentlemen! Here comes a cynical lie. If you can move foresters from all over the country to beat Poles in the Białowieża Forest, then why can't you send territorial defence troops to help the victims of a storm? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] You move foresters from all over the country, probably from the Pomerania area, from the storm grounds, because they do not want to be identified, those who arrived in the Białowieża Forest 2 days ago and beat the activist there. He ended up in the hospital, I remind you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister Szysko! When do we get an answer on the consequences of those foresters who use physical violence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u71	But, sir, you are asking a question not at all on the subject. Another question is put by Anna Siarkowska, near the Republican. [[Voice from the room: It was already there.]] At this point? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u72	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, do you even know what the Territorial Defence Army is? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] The territorial defence forces are territorial, as the name suggests. [[They don't exist.]] They don't go far away. [[Applause]] And the whole thing is, if these Territorial Defence Forces were in the storm area, they'd be created, they could be helping people. [[You're about to become a spokesperson for the MON. To the PiS!]] It's because of you, unfortunately, thanks to the Civic Platform, those troops in this area haven't been there so far, so don't be cynical and lie to the citizens. That's not nice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u73	Thank you. There was a question for the rapporteur. Please, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u74	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, the security of Poland and Poles is priceless. [[Really?]] [[Cancel Macierevich.]] If, Mr President, we are doing this important work - increasing national defence expenditure to 2.5% GDP - we will be looking forward to this, [[Joy in the Chamber]] with a view to 2030. I promise, and I assure you, these dark times of civil platform rule will no longer return... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...when national defense was not spent up to 1.95% GDP. You have lost over PLN 12 billion back, which should be used for the safety of Poland and Poles. [[Yes, sir!]] You've lost over 12 billion zlotys back and forth. These are facts. But Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, the Minister of Defense of the National Government of Law and Justice... [[Where's Berczynski?]] [[Berczyński called.]] ...does everything possible to make Poles feel safe to live in a safe country and so that these funds are spent in such a way that we all feel safe. Territorial Defense, ladies and gentlemen. Why haven't they been used in this storm and to remove its effects? Because you didn't want it. Remind me: Who is blocking the formation of the Territorial Defence Army in Starogard Gdansk? Who? It's not like PiS politicians, it's the Civic Platform politicians. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Who's blocking the formation of the Territorial Defence Army, the 6th Army of Territorial Defence in Radom? Who? [[PO!]] Representatives of the Civic Platform - because they don't want to give up a building that could be used by the Territorial Defence Army. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] And where is the Radom brigade being created? In Warsaw, because it should be created by the end of this year. You cannot respect the decisions taken by the government of the Republic of Poland to improve the safety of our citizens and of us, all Poles. Change, fix yourselves first and your approach to Poland. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Disgraceful!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u75	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 61 voted against - 370, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The question is raised by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u76	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I don't think there's one person in this room who wouldn't be in favor of increasing the country's defense spending. The Modern Minority Request submitted by the Posel Club at this point is to increase property expenditure from 20% to 25%. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we should not go through the extra 5% of this money by increasing the defense budget. - from 20% to 25% - allocate the entire budget to modern weapons, not just for example. for salaries for weekend soldiers. This proposal concerned property expenditure, this amendment. I'm asking you to back me up, possibly hand it over to the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u77	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're talking about security, you're talking about the Territorial Defense Forces, you're talking about Starogard. You guys keep saying all this nonsense, so I'm gonna explain, 'cause maybe you don't know. [[Voice from the room: We know, we know.]] You were gonna kick the kids out of school to get the Territorial Defense Army in there. Throw the kids out of school... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ... 450 kids who learn there. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Next to it are the buildings of the Stadium of Stallions, which is locked by you - in the forest, the natural environment of the Macierewicz guerrillas. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's where you can go. Stop talking nonsense. [[Applause]] You're talking about safety, about spending in 2020 when you're gone. What kind of security? If you want to be serious about safety... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u79	Mr President, the minority proposal concerns an increase in property expenditure. [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u80	That's what I'm talking about: in 2020. [[Why are you yelling?]] Mr. Marshal, I'm speaking out loud to make you hear me. If you want to talk about security, invest in the club, buy a book. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thomas Five, read... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and cancel this guy. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u81	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. [[You're a marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: Censor!]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 52, against - 284, with 94 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I urge you not to shout. [[Voice from the room: No censorship!]] And for the first time in my life, Mrs. Kochan, please don't yell. [[I'm so scared.]] In the third minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3b. The question is asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 3. The minority proposal concerns an increase in R &amp; D expenditure from 2.5% Up to 5%. If we want a modern army, the modernization and development of the army should move towards the development of new technologies so that we will again - I repeat - did not go through this money, because it was already in the history of the world that our neighbour participated in the arms race - they have gone through this money, they have not managed. [[The voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] So, once again, I ask Members to increase their expenditure on State defence modernisation, the expenditure in question, on research and development. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u83	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention, or rather, to remove you from error. The territorial defense forces have received five proposals for a location in Radom. None of them answered. For a year... Mr Skurkiewicz, I am ashamed of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u85	Mr President, minority 3's proposal concerns an increase in R &amp; D expenditure. [[Voice from the room: Censor!]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u86	You should've come with the commission and checked...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u87	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the subject. [[The rapporteur came out and talked about Radom. Don't interrupt.]] [[Voice from the room: But please do not disturb.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u88	...to explain that it's up to us to go home, not to say that we don't have room in Radom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u89	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u90	With open hands, we'll accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u91	...that you're not talking about it. [[And why didn't you pay any attention to Mr. Skurkiewicz?]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 46 against - 254, with 137 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. 12b applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph 12. Two and six. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment by deleting the article. 2 draft amending act. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render minority proposals from 4 to 7 irrelevant. The question is raised by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is corrected by the financial disarray of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, a minister who has dubious trust... [[He's very happy.]] ...he didn't account for his black, dark past. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In 2016, the modernisation budget was distributed for advances, with PLN 7 billion, PLN 5.1 billion paid out in the form of advances. [[Scandal!]] Now in this bill, you propose to increase the level of advance payment. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is not in the Chamber and who, during the government arrangements, had serious reservations about such records. You even suggested that the advance rate should be 50%. What's the advance? in the form of 50% ? You're proposing 33%, but it's still gonna sanction Minister Antoni Macierewicz's financial misfortune. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] When are you gonna finally go after your national defense minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u93	Thank you, sir. The Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to comment briefly on Mr Neumann's words about the alleged actions of the Ministry of National Defence. Mr. Speaker! You know damn well it's not true that it's a lie. More, it is you who use Poles, in the local government, that you quarrel them only to gain your own political purpose. For you, a few points are more important... [[Look who's talking.]] ...support in a local survey rather than the security of the Polish state. [[Immunity.]] You'd be ashamed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, yes!]] [[But what was it about now?]] [[About what? Territorial defense?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u95	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Three Members abstained in favour of 175 votes against - 261. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 12b applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph 12. 6. This proposal brings together the 6th minority request. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are gathered in this Chamber to be a good law, but I will read to you the text of the bill on which you will vote: settle the value of the advance payments previously granted or show that it has involved all the measures in terms of the value of the advance payments previously granted. We're talking about advances spent on the development of the Armed Forces. [[For the cows.]] This record makes it clear that if we spend only on wages in the arms factories, we will not receive the product, it will be a similar case of Gawron, Silesian, because the managers in the arms factories will always show that they have spent this money on wages, for example. The proposed amendment, the minority proposal aims to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the security against such actions and the substantive clearance of advances collected. I would like to ask you to forward these amendments to the Senate, if any. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u97	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All of Antoni Macierewicz's harmful actions, which upset Antoni Macierewicz's actions, are hidden behind the veil of the Territorial Defence Army. They're supposed to explain all his harmful actions. It's supposed to be a success. How successful it is, we could have seen it a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u99	Mr President, but the 4th minority proposal concerns advances. [[Yeah, but don't interrupt.]] Please refer to... [[What's this?]] ...please ask a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u100	Mr. Marshal, if you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u101	...on the fourth minority motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u102	...want to hear it, you're about to find out it's an advance. The money spent, the appointed generals, the appointed command and the staff, and even one soldier didn't help the victims there in Pomerania. And now the down payment. This government spent PLN 7.5 billion on equipment last year, and 5.1 billion on advances. The money's been paid, and the equipment's gone. This is pathology -- this is pathology. [[There isn't.]] What does the government do? He wants to increase the advance. [[The bell, the applause.]] This is... [[Bravo!]] [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u103	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposals of minorities 4 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 260, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 12b applicants propose to add paragraph. 6a. This proposal brings together the 7th minority request. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's like a continuation. as regards previous points and provisions in this agreement, which refers to this, and this minority request relates to the fact that advance payments must first be settled. Because it could happen, according to the terms of this agreement, that we're going to pay 33% three times. advances, not clearing previously transferred money. When I was traveling with the National Defence Commission in arms factories, I saw what lobbying the presidents of these factories was all about in relation to the decision-makers who led the measures there. The amendments proposed by us are purely business and protect the state's budget against fraud and non-skillful public spending in arms factories. So that I would still ask you to lean over these amendments [[♪ The bell ♪]] and refer them to the Senate, if any. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u105	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 5 and 7 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 173 voted against - 261, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is raised by Mr Artur Soboń, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are having this debate at a particular moment. Outside our eastern border there are exercises, offensive exercises of Russian troops, in which up to 100,000 can take part. soldiers. During this time, the Russian party in Poland uses provocations against the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, [[Applause]] and the former national defence ministers of the Civic Platform declare that they will be opposed... [[Ask Kownacki about Piskorski.]] ...enhancing spending on the Polish army by more than PLN 100 billion in the coming decade. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles are in favour of increasing spending on the Polish army. 75% According to the survey, Poles want to increase spending on the Polish army. We are able to increase our expenses and our military, and our social goals. I could talk about how you spent that money... [[Ask about Piskorski.]] ...what state you left the Polish army in, but I'm going to say one thing today. [[You have to say it, you have to say it.]] We honored the soldiers of the National Armed Forces. They're the ones we owe this bill to today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u107	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2001, at the initiative of the then Minister of National Defence, Bronisław Komorowski, the Sejm decided to adopt a permanent national defence investment rate of 1.95%. GDP. [[Applause]] In 2015, we raised our defence spending to 2% GDP. Thanks to this we have created a stable and compliant NATO system for financing defence expenditure in Poland. Today, despite the harmful activities of Antoni Macierewicz, we will support the increase in defence expenditure because the world is not getting better... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...doesn't get safer, threats grow. But in order to take advantage of this opportunity resulting from this decision, we need a Minister of National Defence, who will build agreement and agreement - here, in Parliament, and with the President... [[It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.]] ... The Republic of Poland. Antoni Macierewicz is not suitable for this task. Of course, Antoni Macierewicz must go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: When? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u109	Thank you. Member Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a former professional soldier, I really think carefully and wisely of all the ideas of the Ministry of National Defence, and I must say in this case that these are good intentions. That is why I am completely surprised at the total opposition, these critical voices. Get it together. Open your eyes. [[Applause]] Stop thinking about business only and only your party, start thinking about the interest of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Take off your blindfold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u111	Thank you. Mr Niesiołowski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'm very happy about it, because I feel very safe after these statements by our genius, Mr. Skurkiewicz, that since our Territorial Defence Forces are guarding the borders, the enemy will be crushed at these borders and we will be safe. I must say that I feel as safe as passengers who have the pleasure of traveling on the same roads with Mr Macierewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: He speaks the truth.]] On the other hand, in this case... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Yenoth, Mr. Yenoth, there is an animal called a jellyfish, and this is a phenomenon. [[Shh and mirabelles.]] Medusa has no brain, and it's been around for 200 million years. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Eat piss and mirabelles.]] I was wondering how this was possible, and as I see you, it is possible, however, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Eat the mirabelles and the piss.]] I'm almost done. I'm done. I would only propose a minor amendment so that all the money in the first place - why is it a failure to step on the spot? - all the money you give to the Territorial Defense Army, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for nothing else, because the whole army is unnecessary, just this great...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u113	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u114	...the Macierewicz form is needed. [[Applause]] [[Not about that, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u115	Thank you. Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In reply to a colleague at the Kukiz club15, I wanted to say that I am not acting in the interests of the party, but in the interests of the whole country, because often the wrong law causes us all to suffer. I would just like to remind you that the money we spend on defence depends on gross domestic product, and gross domestic product is the development of our country, how much we are able to create new jobs. I just want to quote some more things. In Poland there is 470 billion of GDP and for every citizen there is only $1,280. The Czech Republic, which is four times smaller, generates 193 billion and this is $1,800 per citizen. It would be good for the arms factories to go to the treasury minister's board... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[There isn't one.]] ...or the Minister of Finance, because today they're taken out to the Ministry of National Defense, and there's just no billing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u117	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Deputy Minister of National Defence, is asking for the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are about to make a decision on one of the most important laws in this parliamentary term, and in fact in recent decades. And how are you, ladies and gentlemen, debating this matter? You're laughing, you're laughing, you're holding on to your stomachs. [[Who are you?]] Is this how you talk about the future of Poland? Is this how we talk about our common security, about the safety of Poles? [[What's this?]] You're gonna yell now? [[Who says, fork?]] Does the Seym really deserve someone like that sitting here acting like that? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: What is it? What's this?]] And now some facts. It was during the time of the Civil Platform government that 12 billion PLN was not spent on defence. A few months before Majdan Kiev, you cut your defence spending by PLN 3 billion. This is thinking about the security of the Polish state? [[What about contracts without a tender?]] You're talking about advances that aren't being made. That is not true, sir. [[Where are the caracals?]] [[Where are the helicopters?]] Problems with orders that are not realized - problems with the execution of orders relate to advances, what has been advanced by the Government of the Civic Platform. The AJT plane hasn't been picked up today. [[Where are the patriots?]] And who made the advance? The Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Bridges Daglesia delayed. And who gave the advance? The Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Exactly!]] Unlike the government of law and justice... [[You misunderstood Minister Darksk.]] ...he made a deal for crabs and as if the Member was a little interested, two weeks ago the first crabs were included in the Polish Army. [[Good platform design.]] In 2016, the Government of Law and Justice pre-financed several hundred million in crawls and, honourable Member, 2 months ago, these crawls entered the Polish army. [[It's a good platform design.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for one thing: that you have said that you will vote in favour of this law despite all the controversy. Because in the history of Polish parliamentarianism there was no event that any Member, any party would be against increasing the expenditure on defence. Even in the days of the Grand Sejm, there was no parliamentarian... Even those who sat in the pocket of the Prussians or the Russians were afraid to say openly that they were against increasing their defence spending. [[What are you trying to say?]] Anyone who votes against this bill today will sign up worse than the worst traitors of that time. [[What did you mean by that?]] I hope there aren't gonna be people like that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u119	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, corrigendum.]] [[Mr. Marshal, there's a corrigendum!]] [[There's a rule book. He's breaking the rules.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 1757 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 434, against - 1 and 5 Members abstained. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: One - Stefan.]] I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Act on Public Procurement. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1683-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u120	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the second reading of 12 September, two amendments, the first amendment of the Civic Platform club, and the second amendment of the Modern Club, were tabled to the Parliamentary bill amending the Local Workers Act, 1324 and 1683. On 14 September, at a joint meeting of two committees, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, the two committees rejected both amendments together. The committees request the adoption of the above-mentioned law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u121	Thank you, sir. In this bill, print no. 1683... The committees present amendments in an additional report, as we have heard. We will vote on these amendments first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 2 draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. Questions are asked by Members. Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment tabled by the Civic Platform to the draft law, which provides for the liquidation of the positions of advisers and assistants in local governments, aims to ensure that the termination of contracts takes place after the end of the term of office, not 14 days, as envisaged by the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has a long history. It began in 2016, when the request came to Kukiz15 to eliminate both the positions of advisers and assistants as well as political offices. Unfortunately, the majority of Members were against, so at the moment we are dealing only with local government matters and there we are eliminating these positions, in a situation where only a dozen percent of the local governments have hired these people. I have a question for the applicants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will you return to the idea of liquidating political offices in the government? [[Applause]] [[Eight years from now.]] [[Eight years from now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u123	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u124	Dear Marshal, First of all, a question for the marshal. I ask that you do not allow a marshal to advertise a private publishing house, some books, because I see it for the fourth time. [[Applause]] This isn't a show. p.o.b. The platform with the product located. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment checks the true intentions of our project. If we accepted the amendment, we wouldn't really save money. This is above all our savings. Besides, I have heard here voices that the generals will still hire people who are dismissed from their positions of liquidation. Well, let's check their intentions. In addition, this amendment will also give a level playing field for new candidates, because they are often assistants - please pay attention to those who work politically. From Czestochowa there is a very good example. Look in, see what President Częstochowa's assistants are doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u125	Thank you very much. I understand Mr Tomasz Jaskoly's statement as an answer - as an applicant - to the question asked by Mrs Rozpondek. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 176 votes against and 251 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose that contracts with local government staff referred to in the provision expire 30 days after the date of entry into force of the Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u126	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I don't know why you want to leave only 14 days of fired workers to find a new job. It seems that there should be at least 30 days for these people to look around and possibly change jobs. By the way, Mr. Marshal, I would like to congratulate you very much, because I will not hide that you were the first to respond very positively to the PiS propaganda campaign, and after a completely inept attempt to introduce a new system to vote, you have restored the old man. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Even yours don't know what's going on.]] [[Bring the flowers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u127	Let me remind you that the committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There were 179 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, the Members shall ask questions. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u128	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The applicants announced the liquidation of political offices. As a result of the political market, they remove assistants' positions. From 1 October these people will be employed as referees or inspectors, but political offices will remain, the Bears will still be well, they will continue to earn 12 thousand. zł... [[Or more.]] ...and they're gonna crash in limos. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]] [[And how did you vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u129	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no doubt that this is the first reduction in public administration in 27 years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[But what are you talking about?]] We save potentially PLN 0.5 billion, actually PLN 50 million. I would like to explain to Mr Sowie and Mr Meysztowicz, because I explained in the Chamber that 40 million, ladies and gentlemen - you have to read the justification - there is 25% in this project. Local governments didn't give us any information, so that's another 10 million. And one last thing. I would of course like to thank the initiator's club, Kukiz.15, and the Law and Justice Club, which supported this project. At the same time, I would like to show that I understand that some people have problems reading this project, this justification. I always wondered why. There are simple numbers out there, ladies and gentlemen. Not all local authorities have provided us with this information. Not much, the information is from 2015. Do you know why? Because some people believe [[♪ The bell ♪]] That there are 140-year-old probation officers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. I understand the honourable Member, i.e. I don't understand. You don't speak. Good. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1683, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. There were 263 votes against and 164 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Local Workers Act. High Seym! I'm ordering a five-minute recess and calling the Senior Convention in the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 50 hrs 10 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. I inform you that after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to remove the third reading of the bill amending the Act on the creation of the Medical University in Łódź. We would like to return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1743-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee. I repeat: I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee. In that case, if you don't have an MP... [[He's coming.]] Or take another break? Mrs Wargock is urgently wanted. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[There it is, there it is.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - the Centre for Civil Society Development. At its 47th meeting, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1743 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments and proposals tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following the recognition of amendments and proposals at its meeting on 14 September 2017, asks the High Sejm to reject the proposals for rejection of the bill submitted by the Civic and Modern Platform clubs and the Circle of the European Union of Democrats. The Commission proposes that the Sejm accept the two amendments tabled by the clubs and reject 38. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u133	Thank you, Member. We will vote first on the minority proposal submitted by the committee and in the additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. As we have heard, the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Members. Member Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the prosecutor's office, the public media, the Constitutional Court and the courts of the PiS take over NGOs. The flourishing flower of civil society, the third sector, far from politics, a diverse, value-seeking, born of the needs of ordinary people to build a free, democratic, friendly country, will now be scanned by a centralised, artificial creation in a thicket of bureaucracy and opaque procedures. Polish People's Republic full of mouth and even caricature of Polish People's Republic. The housekeeper is watching over everything, just like Barei's. The third sector doesn't want this bill. She doesn't solve any of their problems. Non-governmental organizations have already put labels on and cut off independence, you take away your freedom. You didn't listen to the NGOs, you didn't have the dialogue they asked for. There was no public hearing. You're doing the task of subjugating, subjugating and taking over. No corrections, no debate, no point. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are calling for the rejection of this law, this very bad law, an unwanted act by the third sector. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u135	Thank you. The Minister of Culture, Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! But I'm going to take the floor right now. Member, you cannot lie like that, you cannot lie like that. [[Exactly.]] Please, if we are to reform, work for Poland, let us work hard. [[Get off the podium.]] [[Look who's talking.]] This is a project that comes from the third sector, from NGOs. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: No, they're not.]] [[That's not true.]] Unlike you, I've been working in this sector for 30 years, working socially. This is a project that meets the needs of NGOs, mostly the weaker ones... [[We heard that at the committee meeting.]] ...the local ones, those who so far did not have adequate support, also from the Polish state, and it is the responsibility of the Polish state to rationalise the functioning of civil society. This is not a project that centralizes. This is not a project that has not been consulted. The consultations were above average. Six weeks of consultation... [[6 hours]] ...in which more than a thousand people attended meetings throughout Poland. [[No one agrees with you.]] We organised special meetings in different regions with representatives of non-governmental organisations. More than 200 proposals, a large part of which has been included in this project. I took the floor at the beginning of these questions or this discussion to put an end to these discussions. This is a project that is supported by NGOs. [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] This is a project that aims to improve the functioning of citizens, to increase the area of freedom for Polish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u137	Thank you. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're talking about this project to improve the functioning of NGOs, the whole third sector. The number of amendments that we have tabled is exactly what we are going to do. The way you vote will be litmus paper, or are you really in favour of these changes. Our amendments are designed to increase the impact of the third sector on its functioning, to make it independent of politicians. One element affecting the development of civil society is the broad sense of trust, trust in officials, co-workers, public institutions. The experience so far, especially with regard to lawmaking in this Chamber, is far from talking about any trust. Over 100,000. foundations, associations and organisations operate in areas where the state often fails, where it cannot or does not want to deal with these matters. That's what this bill is for. You of these NGOs are making government organizations today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today you want to introduce a bill which of the organization...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u139	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u140	...the NGOs will make government organizations. We are in favour of rejecting this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u141	Thank you, Member. Mr Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two types of politicians and two types of policy-making. One thing is, when politicians say they will, that's what they say. And there are politicians who, if they say they will, go to work and make a change. We keep our word. The non-governmental sector has been calling on governments for many years to strengthen civil society in order to raise the profile of local communities... [[Sure.]] ... non-governmental organisations to give them a more durable, stronger basis for functioning. You've been listening to these voices for eight years. Today, a project is being presented, a concept that makes the subject of society, the development of civil society more and more of a government strategy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we will vote in favour of this bill. I think many NGOs expect this change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u143	Thank you, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u144	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know exactly where you're going with this. A project about the centre of freedom, that is, imposing government supervision on NGOs, is nothing more than an attempt to liquidate them. My question is: Does the PiS allow democracy in Poland without NGOs? [[Yes.]] Do you think that a democratic system without this sector can work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u145	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u146	Thank you, Marshal. The question was asked whether Mr Glinski provoked me with his statement, claiming that the law was extremely widely consulted, that most NGOs expressed their appreciation and supported it. Well, I followed a public debate, although it was not a formal public hearing, about which I followed the two meetings of the Social Policy Committees on the project, which were held with NGOs, and I do not share this opinion by Prime Minister Gliński. I therefore ask the rapporteur: Why did the committee reject the requests of all parliamentary clubs, with the exception of Law and Justice, to organise a formal public hearing on this law, a law that concerns civil activists, social activists? What other law deserves a public hearing if not this one? [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u147	The rapporteur, Teresa Wargock, will answer the question of Mr Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u148	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a public hearing may be involved in the procedure for adopting a law, but, as I said, this discussion lasted for many years. The public benefit Council adopted a resolution on 1 February this year expressing its satisfaction with the broad, in-depth public consultation that has been carried out in this area. We're in the second half of the year. For the rules to enter into force in order to ensure the continuation of competitions and current activities and to organise a centre of freedom, we need to adopt this resolution at the beginning of autumn, and so we are carrying out today's procedure. Indeed, the debate was very long and very intense. We're moving on today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u149	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 197 against - 227, with five Members holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose that the title of the Act should be replaced by the following: the Act on the National Agency for Civil Programmes. Amendments 5, 6, 18, 23 and 25., 31, 33 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. The question is put to you by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a project that comes out of the third sector, as my previous speaker said, Deputy Prime Minister Gliński. This is a project that comes out of your 2014 article. I just want to remind you that we are in 2017 and a lot for NGOs has changed for the better. Prime Minister, you've been to the F.I.P., and I've been to the F.I.P., too. Did the cold reception of you by more than half a thousand NGOs from all over Poland not tell you anything? You heard the criticism, you heard the third sector's requests for a public hearing. Why do you stay deaf to them? You're still deaf. Why did you go to war with the third sector? You're on a team that destroys by the violence of the majority of the parliamentary democratic gains we've built for many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u151	Madam President, the amendment relates to the title of the draft law. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u152	Today, NGOs are something unnecessary to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The title is connected to it.]] Why are you on this team? Prime Minister, answer that question. [[Applause]] [[Have a seat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u153	Thank you very much. [[It's not the Institute of Freedom. It's the Institute of Enslavement.]] Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. Let me remind you that the first amendment concerns the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u154	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this title does not correspond to the facts. We therefore believe that the title of the law and the name of this institute should be formulated differently. It seems, Prime Minister Gliński, that if we're talking about lies, you and Marshal Terletsky should be able to determine who's lying... [[Watch your mouth.]] ...because one of you says that the billboard campaign is government and the other, that the campaign is absolutely not government. [[Everyone's right.]] Perhaps you should agree among yourselves, gentlemen, who is telling the truth and who is not, because it is not good that you are giving such a statement that Members are lying when an example comes from above, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I'm very sorry. It would be good to find out for the second time who's telling the truth and who's lying. [[Everyone's right.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] By the way, Mr. Marshal, we may be when we meet in Krakow under the Cloth Halls. Here I am the master of the envoy. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u155	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I just want to bring up one topic to calm my emotions a little bit, because you've referred to some controversy or disagreement between me and Marshal Terletsky. [[Exactly.]] You mentioned a campaign that concerns a very important problem that is still not resolved in Poland, namely the reform of the judiciary. Campaign of the Polish National Foundation... This is an autonomous foundation and the decision of this foundation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In this sense, It is a campaign organized by this foundation, of course. But this foundation doesn't live in isolation, it contacts a lot of institutions... [[He lives for ours.]] ...and this campaign, one can say - and this is what the Prime Minister also spoke about during the inauguration and presentation of the foundation concept - is implemented at the request of the Polish government. [[Those are lies.]] And it is not embarrassing that the Polish National Foundation agreed to the request of the Polish government to conduct an information campaign in matters important for Poles. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's an anti-national foundation.]] [[Shut up!]] And in that sense, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal Terlecki spoke yesterday about the government campaign. She is in this sense government, that meets the needs of the Polish government and is implemented at the request of the Polish government. There is nothing wrong with this being done by a citizen's institution. [[Whose money?]] We're doing it with an open hatch. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're not lying to reality. There's a problem, there's a foundation in its... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...the statutory objectives are aimed at the image of Poland and has the right to implement and take such decisions. Thank you very much. [[19 million.]] Don't yell, Madam, because this is no place to yell. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u157	Thank you. I draw your attention, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska and Mr Sławomir Nitras, not to shout. [[But if the minister's lying, what are we supposed to do?]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[This is a campaign of PiS lies.]] Mr Sławomir Nitras, do not shout. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 5, 6, 18, 23 to 25, 31, 33 and 35 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 175 votes against, 257 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose that the title of the Act should be replaced by the following: "The Law on the National Institute for the Reduction of Freedoms - the Control Centre for Non-Governmental Organisations." The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Applause]] The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask the question, Minister, you lied, you lied yesterday, you lied today. You're lying too. The resolution you were talking about was a resolution from February, and in June and July the public benefit council passed resolutions that criticize and crush your bill. [[We want to lie too.]] Therefore, we propose in this amendment to name this law on the National Institute for Freedom Reduction - the Control Centre for Non-Governmental Organisations. I ask you to think about it because you limit the lives of NGOs and destroy what NGOs have done in Poland for 30 years. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, I've been accused of lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u159	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 174 voted against - 255, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new preamble to the Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 4. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose a new recital. The current content is incomplete because you have forgotten whether or not you are threatened with very important values. We therefore propose to add them, to give the preamble the following wording: The Polish State supports its citizens regardless of age, religion, political views and sexual orientation. With everything you do, you create such a centralized, artificial creation. Such an artificial creation was already in popular Poland. The director of the new centre of the institute, as you call it: freedom, Stanisław Angel, the host of the house, will decide whether NGOs are suitable for voluntary work for the state and citizens. Besides, you want to steer the third sector like Putin and Orbán. That's what they do, ladies and gentlemen, authoritarian governments, and you guys have such temptations. Non-governmental organizations are an unnecessary burden for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u161	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the recitals, a question to the applicants about the preamble. Does the fact that the preamble contains the word "Christian" mean that organizations that deal with Christian matters will be favored? While I'm at the vote, and we're on the subject of NGOs, I'd like to ask you one more question. There is a new non-governmental organization, completely independent, very rich, which was created a few months ago, which is being implemented, I do not know whether by order of the government, as Marshal Terlecki says, or not by order of the government, as Minister Wójcik says, one of them says not really, a very large billboard campaign. The company that was commissioned, Solvere, founded two of the Prime Minister's employees, so I have a question. Prime Minister, did you know that your co-workers founded the company on May 16 and worked in KPRM until May 25th? Did they have permission to start this company? Did you know that the company was entered in the register on August 25th, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And on July 25, they started operating within this company? These are questions for the Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u163	Thank you, sir. This question deviates from the subject of the amendment. The amendment, I remind you, concerns a recital change. The question is asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u164	Mr. Marshal! I wanted to ask you, can you lie from this platform? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I've just been accused of lying, and I can't take no for an answer on this. [[Talk to yourself.]] I wanted to say very clearly: the public benefit council is composed of representatives of various organisations representing different environments. It has never expressed a negative opinion on this project. It is the council and NGOs that communicate. The resolution was adopted at the July meeting so as not to give an opinion on this project, to wait for the results of these solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u165	Thank you. Mr Adam Lipiński, Minister Adam Lipiński, is asking for the floor. [[Equal treatment of PiS activists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u166	Mr. Marshal, on civil society issues, but here I also want to say a few words about equal treatment. High Izbo! There's a charge that there was no public hearing. [[It wasn't.]] It wasn't. Let's see what the debate on this document looks like in the Seym. Talking, accusing people of lying, insulting people, not taking arguments completely... [[What's on the billboards if it's not insulting?]] But don't yell at me. [[Do you accept any arguments?]] I never yelled at you. Don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u167	Mr Nitras, once again I am admonishing you. Don't yell. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Please keep some personal culture. You're an MP of the Republic of Poland, really. [[I have a lot of culture.]] [[Lie slowly?]] Unfortunately, that's what it looked like and looked like. The worst part is that even when it comes to making arguments and I tried to formulate them in committee meetings, during reading, opposition representatives do not accept these arguments at all. [[The other way around.]] These may be facts, numbers, but they absolutely don't accept. No, no, we don't want to, we absolutely want to use it to fight the opposition. [[Renata Beger.]] Unfortunately, the public debate cannot look like this, I call for some peace. On the other hand, as regards the wording of the preamble, it is a mistake to refer to a closed catalogue of anti-discrimination grounds, this is incompatible with Article. 32th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The state there formulates different conditions, but you do not formulate conditions concerning e.g. disability. This is an inconsistency. Firstly, it is incompatible with the constitution, and secondly, it is inconsistent. That is why we are in favour of not accepting this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[It's your culture to insult someone and not let them answer.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 170 voted against - 259, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose that the word "Christian" should be replaced by "European" in the preamble. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jan Klaviter, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u168	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Declaration of the Ideal Civic Platform states: the foundation of Western civilization is the Decalogue, we believe in the sustainability of the values contained in it. Is it okay to fight these values in the various laws? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u169	Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Christian values are part of European values, and this provision should simply be found, unless you do not want to belong to the European Union, you do not want to respect the values that the European Union represents. I wonder why you want to talk about Christian values every time. You even spoke of Christian values in the Supreme Court Act. I would like you to write any record of Christian values before you enter it so that you behave. I am still waiting for Mr Kaczyński's apology to my colleague Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. I look forward to apologizing to Mr Kaczyński to apologize to Poles and Poles for the scandalous words that came here before the holidays. [[Applause]] [[No more propaganda, no more propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u171	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I would like to welcome the pupils, carers, as well as the management of a special school and education centre from Wielkopolska, Ostrzeszów, [[Applause]] led by the district Ostrzeszowski, which represents Mr Maximilian Bird, member of the board of this district. High Izbo, the non-governmental organization of the Disabled Joy Association also operates within this centre, together supporting institutionally this magnificent institution and pupils. Thus, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the question. Why the government, why the majority of the Sejm does not want to hear the opinion of those who carry out non-governmental activities on a daily basis and support the institutions of the state... [[We're listening.]] ...in a way that really [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wouldn't you be able to do that? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[All the little associations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u173	I would like to remind you that the 4th amendment concerns the proposal to change the Christian expression to European expression. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 158, against - 263, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 2 The applicant proposes that the seat of the national institute be Kraków. The question is asked by Agnieszka Progaj, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u174	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the preamble to this law there is such a provision: the Polish state strives for the sustainable development of civil society both territorially and thematically. High Izbo! By adopting the Kukiz15 amendment, you will begin simply to implement this request. It concerns mainly the transfer of the seat of the National Institute of Liberty from Warsaw to Krakow. Since the institute is to support small organisations in small towns, it may be worthwhile to start decentralisation, to decentralise authorities as well, Mr. Marshal. And here I am counting on the support of at least Members from Krakow. [[Krakow isn't small.]] But we're talking about decentralisation. Decentralization will be a very good example, especially for the new office, why Warsaw, for example. not Kraków or another town. I am counting on the support of my fellow Members from Krakow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u175	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 80, against 349, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 5 and 6 have already been considered. In the 7th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 3 applicants propose to delete point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u176	I would like to quote to the High House the precise wording of the article that we want to remove from the legal order: the value of assets not exceeding 200 000. zł, above which the National Centre Director's disposal of it requires the approval of the National Council of the Centre, with a view to efficient and efficient management of funds and performance of tasks. In practice, this means up to 200,000. zł The director of the national centre will award grants after being considered. We do not know whether in one tranche or in two tranches or one organisation, we also do not know which criteria. [[But the Minister has already explained it.]] But we do know, given the recent performances of the government, which from the organization of this benefit the director of the national center can certainly not expect. Why are you introducing rules that are contrary to the principles of public funds management? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u177	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u178	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Lipiński! If you want to teach someone a personal culture in the course of your speech, here, from the Seymary, I recommend you start with your president, Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[How are you acting?]] We could use a lesson in personal culture in the Seymary. And now a word to Minister Gliński. The last example you've shown is how you can waste citizens' money. You're eating big money, throwing practically citizens' money in the mud, spreading propaganda and putting false passwords on billboards. Today, you want to do nothing but put your hands on more citizens' money. Because it's not your money, the government doesn't have any money, and you, Mr. Chairman, don't have any money, either, except for the money you make. [[Babo, get down from there!]] You want to eat that money -- lie, manipulate the ruling party. And that's what our consent will never be. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u179	Thank you. Deputy Minister Adam Lipiński is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have yet another edition of the public debate in the issue of the opposition. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say... I don't like to use strong words, I don't like to use such words, that someone is lying, that someone should be ashamed, but in this situation I'm really upset. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And that's hard for me, Mr. Chairman knows that. [[Voice from the hall: And that's what we like about you.]] I have repeatedly explained that the 200,000 which will be in the Director's pot will only be spent in minor current cases without the need to obtain the approval of the Institute's board. But that money won't be spent on any grants. How many times do I have to say it? It's... [[Voice from the hall: Only for billboards.]] No, that's the argument you're using: billboards. The Institute must function, must operate on a daily basis, the Director must make commitments, regulate charges, must have some pool that is under control, but this money absolutely does not go into any grants. How many times do I have to say it? I said that two days ago. Okay, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u181	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 172 votes against and 258 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants shall propose that the financial plans and reports referred to in Article be made available to applicants. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u182	In the legal state that you are proposing, the Committee President may adopt today if you do not accept this amendment, the annual financial report and the financial plans actually without a positive opinion of the Council, i.e. the opinion of the Council may be negative and the Committee President will adopt these reports anyway. So why do you need facade advice if it has no competence, and in any case no competence to influence the most important thing, the financial activity of this committee and the centre? And I'm gonna take advantage of the fact that I have a moment. My question to your marshal is this: Which of your powers, mentioned in the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, allows you to censor the statements of Members? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u183	Thank you. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u184	Mr. Marshal, Scheuring-Wielgus. I've been here two years. [[Voice from the room: Change your name.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we ask that the word be added that the opinion of the National Council of the Institute is positive. You marginalize this law by non-governmental organisations. I can still hear from this speaker from Mrs Wargocka, from the ministers of Lipinski and Gliński, that it is for the good of the organization. It's not for the organization's sake, it's just that you're ruining a system that's been working very well, and you're not paying any attention to what NGOs have been saying for years. I have a present for Minister Gliński, too. Yesterday I gave a gift to Minister Lipinski. Ladies and gentlemen, the governance scheme for NGOs looks like this, which means it's very simple, and now it's going to be like this. Tell me, Minister: Is this really a system repair? No, it's difficult. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u185	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 175 votes against - 259. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 10. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u186	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The amendment concerns the composition of the Council, the National Freedom Institute body. We are in favour of the majority being representatives of NGOs. Hence our proposal to make it seven people. Currently, only five of the eleven are representatives of non-governmental organisations. During his second reading, Minister Lipiński said that representatives of the government were three people out of eleven, so a minority. That's not true. Indeed, three people represent the government, but one more person represents the President, who comes from the Law and Justice camp, one Minister for Finance and one self-government person, but - attention - appointed by a committee, which is a government body. Hence our amendment so that the seven members of the Council are representatives of non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u187	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 176 voted against 256 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose that NGOs should elect their representatives to the Council through direct elections. Prime Minister! You have been burningly speaking about civil society, how much it is at your heart. Then please convince your colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment, because if you do not vote, you will show that the idea of civil society is alien to you because you will not allow NGOs to choose their representative. I would like to remind you that it was the NGOs that for many years laboriously built civil society after the people's democracy, which, as you can see, is getting closer and closer to you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u189	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is for you, because this amendment actually concerns the opening of the governing body of the board of foundations to NGOs. Will this foundation not actually work, this institute will not work more efficiently when there is greater transparency? On the other hand, if we are on the subject of NGOs, I have one more question, because perhaps this law also regulates it. There is such a new, very large, very rich non-governmental organization, which has money, obtained it from companies of the State Treasury, it is not entirely known on the basis of which contracts. She is carrying out very large projects, for several million, it is not known whether the government, as you claim, Marshal Terlecki, or not, as Minister Wójcik claims, but it is clear that the government must have some influence over this foundation. So the question to Prime Minister Gliński, who oversees the operation of this foundation, could it not be done so that the huge money that the foundation has is intended for the reconstruction and renovation of the homes of the citizens, not for your disgusting propaganda campaign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u191	The second question, Mr President, is not on the subject. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. There were 176 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns a reduction in commitment time. This is necessary to allow the board of representatives of youth organisations. It is also necessary to delete the words "professional experience', since people who have been active in small civil society organisations for years often do not have an employment contract there. This also applies to many historical, patriotic, rural and many, many others. The required higher education excludes both youth organisations and, among others, youth organisations. people with fewer chances. The competences of the members of the Board should be reviewed by the sector. But what's the bill for anyway? She's all bad, isn't she? Nobody wants it. Why are you centralizing everything? The schematic of this law reminds the Central Committee of the PZPR times. [[Don't read that. Out of your mind, out of your mind.]] Are you creating another institution in which your Pisewicz will find refuge? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u193	Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u194	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment talks about a certain catalogue of experiences and features that should have people who want to be members of the Council. We ask for this amendment to be voted because perhaps this time it will be possible to avoid a situation where incompetent marshals and ministers are unable to communicate whether the campaign of the new NGO is government, non-governmental, or the Prime Minister was just a coincidence. Perhaps it will be possible to avoid a situation where incompetent Minister Błaszczak orders surveillance of the citizens' environment by following representatives of non-governmental organisations. We ask you to extend this catalogue and change it in such a way that the council actually brings together competent people who know their job, unlike the government ministers, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u195	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 174 voted against 256 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u196	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Our amendment concerns the composition of the National Council of the Institute. The members of the council must meet various criteria, criteria concerning education, experience, and non-punishment. We propose that we add another point, paragraph 5, so that the members of the Council cannot belong to any political parties. This is another safeguard against the interference of politicians in the activities of the third sector. Think about the fact that the intervention of politicians, as soon as politics enters NGOs, will be very depressing for all those who have been heavily involved for many years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u197	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 174 voted against 256 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 10 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u198	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 4, we propose that the appointment and dismissal of the chairman of the committee be made at the request of the organisations represented. And it's definitely here. We suggest a record: following direct elections among NGOs. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We absolutely believe that NGOs should choose their representatives, all the more so because such practice has been present for many years in various institutions. Let's add, she's proven herself, and there's nothing to prevent her from continuing. These good practices had e.g. a public benefit council or a monitoring committee for European funds. Please, let us use good and proven patterns and do not destroy them in the name of particular and political interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u199	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 172 votes against - 254, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose a different wording of point 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club always opts for proposals to ensure that all laws are as strict, clear and precise as possible so that there is no abuse. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's spicy? But how spicy?]] That is why we propose that in the article. In paragraph 10, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: 5, which concerns the appeal of a member of the Council before the end of his term of office, delete in paragraph 3 an extremely vague criterion against a member of the Board, namely: he is wrongly carrying out his duties relating to membership of the Council. We propose that in point 3 [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] leave only and only a record of the evasion of duties. Law and Justice love to have control over everything, so the government's premeditated proposal carries out a well-known saying: find me a man, and I will find a paragraph on him. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] After the entry into force of the law in the wording of the government, you can paraphrase this well-known operative part, because the paragraph will already be, only you will have to find a man. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Bravo, beautiful diction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u201	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 385 voted against - 36, 1 Member abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose that the work of the Board be managed by the chairman elected by the Board. Amendments 21, 32 and 34 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u202	This law makes the non-governmental sector run by the government. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this law is such a provision: The work of the Council shall be governed by the chairman appointed by the chairman of the Committee from among its members. Our amendment proposes that it be a democratic choice so that it is not another Misiewicz, without competence, without skills. [[Oh, Jesus, oh, Jesus.]] I wonder, Prime Minister, do you have the right person for this position yet? Aren't you afraid to create more institutions for your... [[His name is Kaczmarek.]] ...only and only party colleagues that you don't have enough people for all this? [[That's enough.]] This is what we pay for, out of public money. Citizens are paid. I'm worried if that makes any sense at all. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u203	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15, 21, 32 and 34 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 173 voted against - 255, three Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is it that there are foundations in which there are people who openly speak about what parties they are from, e.g. Law and Justice? Such people are, for example. at the Polish National Foundation. It is also the case that there are foundations, there are members of foundations who do not have access to the Sejm. I'm talking about the Polish Nationals Foundation. The point we want to introduce -- is to talk about who belongs to which party and who doesn't -- is to make sure that no party's officers work in foundations, especially national ones. Think about it, because the state is really digging a hole underneath you for the future as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u205	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 177 voted against - 250, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 23 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the process of this project we have this situation. There is no dialogue in the work of the law, but also in the law itself, there is no dialogue with non-governmental organisations in its records at all. Art. 23 - You want to create your own programs, without the participation of the third sector. Only the Council of Ministers will deal with this? I think that a broad involvement of civil sector representatives should be ensured in the development of civil society support programmes. And that's why we're proposing a provision that goes against it, and we're adding a consultation with the Council of Public Interests and a public consultation that you're in vain looking for. I'd like to comment on the words of Mr Lipinski's attorney. You're talking about not accepting arguments. You're the ones who don't accept any arguments. All [[♪ The bell ♪]] You throw the corrections in the trash in the committee at second reading. [[We took one. What is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u207	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u208	You don't want to talk to organizations. It's not there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u209	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 174 voted against - 252, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 18. We've already looked into it. In the 19th amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 3 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Glinski! You have destroyed and destroyed Polish culture, censoring it and becoming the main censor of the Republic of Poland. And you are destroying NGOs - what is the essence and essence of civil society. I would like to remind you that in Poland, as a constitutional democracy, law must not be shaped on the basis of metaphysical and religious beliefs. Art. 25 Constitutions are clear about this. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this exchange of elites, exchanges of people, exchanges of activists, exchanges of directors, exchanges of all those who have something important to do in Poland is an intended activity of the PiS state. And I'd like to argue with Mr. Tramp. Mr. Szłapka, this is not the Polish National Foundation, this is the PiS-owska National Foundation. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Anti-national.]] [[Corrigendum. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u211	Mr Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment, point 4, as well as the entire law, stands for one thing. During the two meetings with the Norwegian Prime Minister, Mrs Solberg, you heard a clear message. If you go on the route of Orban Hungary, Norway will suspend the Norwegian funds. You realize that the adoption of this law means that the non-governmental organisations in Poland will not receive EUR 809 million in the years 2016 to 2021. Norway is our very close and devoted ally. We buy weapons from the Norwegians, we want to connect with a pipe to buy gas from them, but above all, we have to share the same values that they confess. What you are doing is not only fighting civil society but also hitting our alliances and weakening our position in Europe. Unfortunately - bad information for the current and former co-workers of the Prime Minister - it is also less money to justify the PiS nomenclature. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u213	However, I appeal to you to maintain some boundaries of decency in your statements. [[And don't give money to co-workers.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 19 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 176 voted against - 251, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 3 applicants propose a new wording of point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, it was rather decency to speak to the Members of the Law and Justice who lied from this speaker. Minister Gliński lied yesterday, and Mrs Wargock is lying today. Be decent next time. [[And vice versa.]] On the other hand, as regards the amendment, in this amendment we ask for information on respect for women's rights. We're on the eve of... Next year we have a 100-year anniversary of women's electoral rights, and women's rights in Poland are violated. It is very important that all NGOs that will be funded from this PiS fund, the Law and Justice Fund, also bear in mind the rights of women. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u215	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u216	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I'll turn to you. Your group is famous for the fact that you're mostly looking for deals. For the last eight years, mostly you've been looking for a deal, but that deal's right under your nose. Because how else do you call a business in which two close colleagues of the Prime Minister still from the election campaign, and later from the office of the Council of Ministers, leaves, sets up companies and gets the first order for 19 million PLN? [[Applause]] Do you know one company in the world that goes and basically gets a commission from the government for 19 million zlotys? It's full of pathology. Prime Minister, I don't know how you're gonna look entrepreneurs who have to work hard every day really hard to fight for every penny. And here's just a sick case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Answer me, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u217	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 20 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 172 voted against - 258, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 3 applicants propose to add point 13. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Mr Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24 are 12 points that describe the tasks of the National Institute of Freedom. They're all important, we agree with them. At the same time, we propose to add point 13 as follows: The Institute's tasks include promoting diversity, combating discrimination based on sex, age, religion, origin, sexual orientation. It is about strengthening such important universal values, which you too, Prime Minister, refer to in your public speeches when you speak about European values. I will quote here the Treaty on European Union, Art. 2: The Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law as well as respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to Member States in a society based on pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u219	Please. Mr Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u220	Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you why you did not think that in promoting the economy and building Polish brands abroad, NGOs should be involved at the request of the government to participate in it. They are open, independent, independent, and I think they would do it much better than the Polish National Foundation and your colleagues. Yeah, except then it wouldn't be a closed deal, because the NGOs are civil. It would then be transparent, transparent, without any suspicious connections and would be a real promotion of Poland abroad... [[It would be the way it was.]] ...would be the actual construction of our brand abroad. And so we have a party campaign for public funds, for the money from the wallets of Poles for your fight against the opposition and we have a billboard scandal. And what was that for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u221	Michał Kaminski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about this amendment, which assumes promotion or assumes that for the purposes of NGOs it is also to support those who fight discrimination. After all, there are organizations in Poland that fight, for example. against discrimination against Christians, which is a problem in many countries. But in Poland we have a problem with discrimination based on sexual orientation, religion, origin, skin color, because we had cases of robberies, real robberies of people who speak a different language on the tram, on people who have a different color of the skin, we have in Poland cases of scandalous statements such as the one that once fell from this stand, that the choice of Barack Obama is the end of the white man's civilization, etc. I don't see... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...the reason why someone who refers to Christian values, who tells them to love every man, regardless of what he is and what sins he commits from the standpoint of even these values... I don't see why you're afraid of this kind of correction. [[Applause]] [[Who said anything about pedals? Who is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u223	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 22, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 178 voted against - 250, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We've already considered the 23rd to 25th amendments. In the 26th amendment to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose that the National Institute carry out the programmes referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, only by means of an open tender contest. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u224	It is not only that the appointed PiS governor will be given money without open competitions. The third sector will cease to function and will cease to function where today the state and the government simply do not physically manage. You can't handle seniors, you can't handle people with disabilities. That's where the NGO helps, because you guys can't handle it. [[Anything else?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You will divide the Poles. You have already divided Poles into better and worse sort. This time you want to split the social workers with the NGO. They won't forgive you. Because I'm wondering which organizations, according to your ideology, are going to get the money that they're going to have to sit in the waiting room and wait for a visit, for an audience, and for your grace. Are they gonna be like this? NGOs dealing with equality or the fight against violence against women, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or those that protect against discrimination? Because you don't know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u225	Thank you. Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u226	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Transparency in public spending and transparency in granting public funds to various NGOs is a prerequisite for everything to be transparent, clean, open and informed to citizens who make up the budget, including the budget of the National Institute of Freedom. The proposed amendment therefore states that programmes should be implemented only and only through open competitions, not according to independent decisions, without different types of verifiers or regulations and assumptions. Minister Gliński, Prime Minister, what happened to you that you are holding this law, which is not transparent, which does not pursue the objectives of civil society, with your face and name? What happened that you were able to go out on the stand and defend the obvious scam of the national foundation and finance the Law and Justice campaign, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u227	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 26 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 229, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 30 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. Two, four. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 28. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask: What is the purpose of setting up a national social development centre... [[It's in the explanatory memorandum.]] ...take the money or fill the next Misiewicz? NGOs have long called on the PiS to reject this project. They fear that the granting of money to NGOs will be purely political. After all, the director of this NCRS, appointed by the Minister, together with the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński, are to direct this centre twice and will decide to spend tens of millions of zlotys from our common budget. You're ruining a system of NGOs that take care of people in need. You talk so much about taking care of the disabled, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to be willing to help, and you're destroying support for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u229	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u230	These are words, words, words, nothing more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u231	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This amendment is very simple, it is intended to limit the director's competence in setting competitions in this foundation. The question to you is: Why don't you want to limit this setting? On the other hand, the discussion about NGOs is a good time to talk about a gigantic affair with the Polish National Foundation. It's just a foundation that's a scam. They were transferred by Misiewiczów, the boards of companies of the State Treasury, to the detriment of companies of the State Treasury, money for this foundation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u233	Mr President, this passage does not concern Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u234	There's a campaign going on... [[Applies, applies, do not interrupt.]] I'm discussing this... I asked you a question about this amendment, Mr. Marshal, and I have time to finish my justification. It is not implemented in accordance with the Political Party Act, a billboard campaign promoting the position of Law and Justice. It's just a big deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u235	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u236	The Prime Minister has said many times: it is enough not to steal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u237	...justification, as you say, does not apply to Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u238	You steal so much that you... [[Madam Prime Minister, answer me!]] ...money flies in your pockets and you can't catch it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u239	Thank you very much. And I urge you, please don't leave the subject of the 27th amendment. [[This is censorship.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 27 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 194 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 30 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 3 and 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u240	Prime Minister! Minister! Mr. President! The non-governmental sector is very important. Centralisation of this sector is very bad because it is contrary to the idea of civil society. But if we are talking about non-governmental organisations, I would like to ask if it is a coincidence that at the same address at which Kosmus is operating - a very trusted law firm serving the case of PiS and you, Mr. President - Solvere has been registered. It's a hive. Derdowskiego 26/3 in Gdańsk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u241	Mr President, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u242	Is it a coincidence that the company, through which millions of zlotys are brought out... [[This is corruption.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u243	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u244	...was registered in Gdansk in the same building? [[Bravo!]] [[This is stealing. Answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u245	I appeal to you to speak to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u246	You're paying my attention. [[We demand answers, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] I said, are you making fun of the intelligence of Poles? [[This is stealing.]] Why are you bringing millions of dollars out of state-owned companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this kind of mechanism? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u247	Mr... For the second time, I would like to draw Mr Breeza's attention... [[Answer the Prime Minister.]] ...that I'm going to have to deal with this kind of talk in a minute... [[And I, Mr. Marshal, would like to point out that this is stealing money.]] ...as obstruction or obstruction of the Sejm's deliberations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[This is stealing.]] Mr Nitras, I would like to point out once again that you do not shout. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Are you paying attention to me?]] [[Voice from the hall: Poles want to know.]] [[Voice from the room: Censor.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Voice from the room: Just don't steal.]] I am addressing Mr Nitras. I would like to point out to you that right now you are interfering with the Sejm's proceedings by shouting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But he didn't.]] That's the way I'm gonna take the yelling. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But Mr. Marshal, really.]] In the next warning, I will proceed to the mode with the article. 175. [[Applause]] [[And I'd rather get an answer from the government than your instruction.]] Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Of course, I understand that this whole foundation is for one thing: to have a legal money channel already. I understand that this is why we want to delete the word "self-contained' so that all projects cannot be implemented. Not by the Polish National Foundation now, but directly by the National Institute. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, public money must be highly respected. Therefore, it is so outrageous that this action, which is currently run by the Polish national fund, because public money coming from companies of the Treasury without a tender, violates the rules of the law on political parties, in a manner which is uneconomic, yet idiotic and lying, is moving public money, i.e. all Poles, into their own propaganda. And here I must say that I would like to settle a dispute between Mr Adam Szłapka and Krzysztof Mieszkowski. I actually think Krzysztof Mieszkowski is right. [[I'm gonna have to correct it again.]] This is the PiS-owska national foundation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u249	I would like to point out to you that Amendment 28 to which you are asking questions concerns the deletion of two paragraphs in Article. 30: paragraph 30. 3 concerning the rules of procedure of the competition and paragraph 1. 4, which speaks of criteria. [[Voice from the Chamber: And we are talking about the foundation of democracy.]] So I would ask you to refer to this amendment. [[Can I correct my misunderstood statement?]] Michał Kaminski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u250	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Prime Minister on his position on this amendment. At the same time, since I am asking this question, I am also asking whether I will be able to believe you, because you literally just said from this stand that yesterday Mr Terlecki was right, saying that this billboard campaign is a government campaign, unlike what other representatives of the PiS said earlier, but precisely at the time when we are sitting here listening to your words, the Marshal of the Senate of Law and Justice said yesterday that Mr Terlecki had rehearsed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm the one who's wondering who's telling the truth here. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Did Mr. Terlecki misspoke...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u251	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are speaking out of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u252	But I'm talking about because I asked you a question and I'm explaining it, and I'm asking you an additional question if I can believe in the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u253	The amendment concerns the deletion of paragraph 1. 3 and 4 in Article 4 30.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u254	That comes from my great trust in you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u255	Mr President, please refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u256	But I just got back, Marshal. [[That's what it's referring to.]] [[Voice from the hall: Truth in the eyes of the circle.]] Excuse me, I'm almost done, but I wanted to ask you this question and ask... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u257	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u258	...who's shooting here. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u259	Thank you, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me.]] [[Voice from the room: Talk.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the questions asked by some Members will have to be considered as some form of attempt to cause obstruction at the moment in the vote, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because they don't concern the amendments... [[I don't think you're saying that to yourself.]] [[Don't be afraid of civil society.]] ...but they concern other cases which are not the subject of the bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 28 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 195 voted against - 227, 5 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. If I notice, gentlemen, that the next questions differ from the substance and do not concern amendments, I will turn off the microphone. [[Applause]] In the 29th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 31. The Commission requests that it be rejected. [[Voice from the room: To the column immediately.]] Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendment 30. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, you wouldn't have to treat these questions as obstructions if the Prime Minister had finally spoken and answered very substantive questions about one of the large, important, independent non-governmental organisations, of course. The question, of course, concerns the amendment. This amendment allows for the formulation of institutional support for non-governmental organisations, i.e. one that allows the start of an organisation, to achieve a certain degree of development. The question is why such a solution cannot be found in this law, since you, bypassing the law by the scandal, are essentially carrying out such solutions by transferring the money of the Treasury companies to the Polish National Foundation, the PiS National Foundation, which implements the scandals. Prime Minister, once again, all you have to do is not steal like you said in the campaign. And you're stealing horrible, it's a terrible thing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u261	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these wordings are inappropriate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Really?]] [[Voice from the room: You started it.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 172 votes against - 250 and one Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 31. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, once again we are talking about adding a word so that there are simply competitions of offers. Well, it can't be that some committee, some director of some PiS organization, ordered jobs he'd come up with somewhere in the government office. Taking this opportunity, I would like to ask Minister Gliński, because Mr Lipiński has not answered this question in any committee in principle, whether the position of director of the Institute will be intended for Mr Wojciech Kramarczyk. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Or maybe the chair of the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u263	Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 30 would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Scandal, Marshal! Scandal!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 171 voted against - 251 and 1 Member abstained. [[May I make a formal request?]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. Corrections... [[Voices from the room: Formal conclusion! Formal conclusion!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will accept the formal proposals once I have voted on this point. [[But the rules are different.]] Amendments 31 to 35. We've already considered. In the 36th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 47. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Firstly, I would like to draw Mr Marshal's attention to the fact that it is not his role to censor the statements of Members, including of Modern Members. [[Applause]] [[Then let them follow the rules.]] Second, in the amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u265	Madam, I would like to draw your attention to the question of Amendment 36. [[That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u266	So I'm just asking... Amendment 36. This is about the existence of a public benefit committee. I know, there are different committees in history, some of which are better registered, some of which are very bad. On the other hand, I would like to ask what this committee is to do. And at the same time I wanted to point out one thing, that you can see what a failure is the campaign of the Polish National Foundation, because it turns out to be an orphan. Nobody's gonna admit it. You don't know, government, non-government, no one supports her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u267	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 170 votes against and 253 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 52 add a new article. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 37 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 361, against - 53, 13 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. 55 applicants propose that the law enter into force 12 months after its publication. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 39 and 40. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 38, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 49 against - 250, with 124 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 55 applicants shall propose that Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 2018. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 40. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 175 voted against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. 55 applicants shall propose that Article. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 April 2018 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u268	Dear Messengers, Dear Members, A government bill on the National Institute of Freedom will soon be issued under the Sejm. It will be a government agenda for which the objectives are not met, bureaucracy is created, problems are not solved, very important questions are not answered, who will decide on the award of grants. The Director will take all management decisions on a one-man basis and decide for himself on each regulation the assets of the Centre with a value of up to 200,000. zł. We call for the whole of the project to be rejected at first reading and we declare our readiness to discuss the state of civil society in Poland in partnership. Dear Members, On July 3rd, you all received a letter from NGOs. I've only read his fragments. Important signatories signed up, signatories to the third sector: Stańczyk Institute of Civic Thought Foundation, Foundation for Civil Society Development, Foundation im. Stefan Batory... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ... Donor Forum in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u269	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u270	... National Federation of Organizations... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u271	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u272	... Non-governmental, Polish Foundation im. Robert Schuman... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u273	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 40 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 171 voted against - 248 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, Members shall ask questions. Member Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Freedom Institute, which you create and which NGOs do not want, not only introduces administrative chaos, gives way to discretionary ideological decisions, but also does not solve a single problem of NGOs. The third sector has been telling you this for months, but you're not listening. You want the situation of non-governmental organizations sorted out. That's what Prime Minister Szydło said. Settle down, what? What's so bad about NGOs in the third sector besides what's going on at the national foundation you're running? Well, the fact that money won't be able to count on those organizations that don't like the power of the PiS. You'll be chattering left-wing, cheating faces, scumbags, villains, vegetarians, bikers. NGOs will meet all this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what happened to the Poles. You'll sort, divide...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u275	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u276	...for a better and worse sort. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u277	Thank you very much. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern from the very beginning opposed this law in committees during the first and second readings. This bill is wrong. The state destroyed the three divisions of power, you turned upside down education in Poland, you forbid people to gather freely, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And now, after 27 years, you want to destroy what has been developed by civil society. I know that your Member Kaczyński is afraid of civil society and is very uncomfortable with it, but I would like to tell you from this speaker that citizens and citizens will certainly not give it to you, certainly. [[Applause]] [[You too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u279	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, millions of people work for NGOs. The third sector is a powerful, large shareholder of our public life, mostly it changes public life very well. Most of these millions of active Poles are Poles working in Catholic organizations, close to the Church, helpers, Caritas, etc. Most of these people don't work for any government money. Today the liberal opposition speaks on behalf of those left-wing organizations that operate for government money. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[What left-wings?]] And even worse, there is also the activity of NGOs in Poland... [[You've got hay in your head.]] ...for money from abroad, for the offensive of cultural Marxism and for the destabilization of Polish public life. [[Applause]] That is why, at this point, I am appealing for Members from all sides of this House to agree... [[Heal yourself.]] [[Hay, hay in the head.]] ...to the proposal of the National Movement project to ban financing from abroad [[♪ The bell ♪]] those who want to destabilize Polish public life. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u281	Thank you. Michał Kaminski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will vote against this bill not because we are against civil society... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...but because everything in the practice of this authority means that if she calls something in some way, then practice later is exactly the opposite of that name. Today Poland is neither a state of law nor a state of justice. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] National media doesn't represent the nation, they represent one part. So if today you are introducing what you call the National Institute of Freedom, that means that you are preparing our nation for this freedom lack. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u283	Finally, I would ask for at least a formula of the question, not a parliamentary statement. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. We're in question mode, ladies and gentlemen, not debate. [[Voice from the room: Somebody answer me for once.]] [[Applause]] [[What kind of debate if there's no answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit to the whole to share some reflection, because Kukiz15 will vote against this bill, but unlike our colleagues from the PO and the Modern, we do not do a circus here because there are 40 amendments tabled in principle Only so that Mrs. Scheuring-Wielgus could go out on the stand 30 times and say the same thing 30 times. [[Applause]] [[We're working.]] Mr. Marshal! I ask for intervention, because if we so proceed and work in this Sejm, that amendments will be tabled only so that Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, Mrs Lubnauer and Mr Snapshot come out here and ask the same questions, it is the ridicule of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u285	Thank you, thank you. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the vote is being followed by a tour of students and teachers from Mielec. [[Applause]] [[What's he gonna think?]] Minister Adam Lipiński asked for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've heard a lot of charges here... [[That's deserved.]] ...there were emotions. There was talk of ruining the system, that the bill is shameful, that we should be ashamed. Here I will surprise you with one thing, at least most of you. Do you know what power the centre will have over funds allocated to NGOs? At one time I asked this question to a few Members. They didn't. [[But you're here to answer, not ask.]] I'll answer you. It's the power of 1%. These measures. Explain to me how this is possible. Even if we had bad will, and we don't have bad will, as you can say, 1%. flip the entire system of 100,000. the organisation. It doesn't make any sense. [[Applause]] I have already mentioned this to the Members of the Modern and Platforms, because in general the Members are active in this debate, but the Members somehow do not accept these arguments. Finally, such a reflection on this Parliament. I feel like we're totally not listening to each other. There are arguments, the opposition says its... [[Because you're not listening.]] Dear friend of mine from Lower Silesia, I was talking to you about some of the things you said here. Why did you say that? It's completely unentitled. [[And you're repeating it too.]] Okay, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u287	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1743, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 236 voted against - 194, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the National Institute of Freedom - the Center for Civil Society Development. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the law on bailiffs and executions. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1575-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u288	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Act amending the law on bailiffs and executions. At its meeting on 13 September, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave its opinion on the proposal to reject the project in its entirety. It advises on rejecting the application for rejection and adopting the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u289	Thank you, sir. The Commission is proposing, as we have heard, the adoption of the proposal. It's about print number 1575. In an additional report, the committee shall submit a request for rejection. I will put this proposal to the vote first. I remind you, the committee requests that this request be rejected. The question is asked by Barbara Dolniak, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u290	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is an example of a project that shouldn't be voted on at all, because it's a project for a week, two weeks, a month, and that creates legal chaos. [[Four months.]] A committee meeting is scheduled for 19 September, on which two government projects will be discussed: the bailiffs and the costs of execution proceedings, which differ, but this is entirely different in terms of non-cash benefits. They are introducing a system to regulate monetary and non-monetary benefits, also referring to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Moreover, they do not provide for the action of the law backwards, as is the case in the Senate project. Therefore, I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, because there is no designer, whether you intend to change the rule you want to introduce in your government projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u291	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is not controversial as regards its content, so the Kukiz Club will vote in favour. Using the fact that we have basically the most important decision-makers in the country, whether today or yesterday, probably also tomorrow, I would like to appeal to all club presidents, including you, Prime Minister. If we are a law in Poland, let us do it comprehensively, not in such a way that the bill on bailiffs is being amended today and the last amendment entered into force a month ago. The next one is already being processed and is to enter into force on 1 January. How can we respond to the principle of legal certainty when at one time we are examining several amendments to the same law? Prime Minister, please, while you are Prime Minister of the Polish Government, pay attention to your ministers. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] If they're already writing laws, let them do it comprehensively. Moreover, this law constitutes the enforcement of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal two years ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is this: If there was an amendment that came in a month ago, why was this not included in this amendment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u293	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 33 voted against - 387 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the offer. Before voting on the whole project, there is a question. The question is raised by Barbara Dolniak, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u294	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In two weeks, we will vote on a completely different law, a different solution. We can't make law for five minutes. This is not a good solution, and it is not in line with the Constitution, because it introduces the principle of acting backwards, which in the justification of the project has not been justified at all. In a government project, the Ministry of Justice refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal by introducing a regulation on non-monetary benefits. But it also applies systematically to cash benefits, which means that in a moment the government will have to accept this project, since it will vote in favour of this law. In two weeks, you'll have a different opinion? No. You'll have a different opinion next week because September 19th is next week. How can you make such a law? After all, this is a fundamental error, the uncertainty of the law for which [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're all paying attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u295	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm has taken a decision on this matter. At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention, there was no objection to discussing this matter. [[Mr. Marshal, I've requested that the project be rejected.]] Thank you very much, Member. I'm just informing you about the procedure. Many times in this and previous terms, we have faced the situation that there were even several amendments during the work of the Sejm, e.g. in the case of Road Traffic Law, several amendments were introduced at one time. [[Voice from the hall: This should be a warning, not a model to follow.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Mr Leszek Długi. There you go. Grzegorz Długi, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u296	Leszek Długosz is still among us. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! However, I would like applicants to answer these questions. As Mr Grabowski has said, it is not even about the substance of the case at this time, but we would really like to know, because there may be a rational behind the fact that we will be here in such a rather uninteresting way to proceed with it. We'd like to hear it. I would simply like to be convinced, so that I ask you to answer the question of why this was decided. We think the government project we're working on should be processed. Well, then I'd like to know why we're making this dump first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u297	That's a question for the government. Minister Marcin Warchoł represents the government. There you go, sir, if you'd like to comment on these comments. At the same time, I would like to inform you that we have at the meeting a brass orchestra of a volunteer fire brigade from the beautiful Vistula Vistula, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Let them play.]] [[Gentlemen, play something.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two valid rations speak for this bill to be passed. First, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015, which must be implemented quickly and must be implemented without any change in the cases initiated. And these cases brought before and after the judgment are at this point. These cases will be recognized despite our comprehensive project under the current law, which is beneficial, which is pro-Citizenial. That is why I am asking you to support this bill. It is not like your Marshal Dolniak emphasizes that our project is in conflict with this project, that these projects are conflicting with each other. No. Let us accept a pro-Citizen interpretation, i.e. all enforcement cases, ladies and gentlemen, initiated after the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 or initiated before that judgment, i.e. under the old law, will be recognized in accordance with these provisions. So two important reasons: first of all, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled - remember the situation - in the case of leaving the premises, eviction from the premises. If this place was evicted voluntarily, i.e. the debtor voluntarily fulfilled the benefit, it is a wicked situation that the bailiff would then charge a full fee of the same amount as when he had to carry out certain activities and force of the debtor to evict. I think we'll all agree here. Therefore, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 October 2015 is as valid, necessary and justified as possible. That's why we're gonna do it fast right now. I say: our law, which will, of course, come into force soon and comprehensively regulates the issue of fees, will apply to future matters, but these solutions that benefit citizens apply to current matters. I'm asking for their support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u299	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] In corrigendum mode. [[No.]] Mrs Barbara Dolniak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u300	Contrary to the Minister's claim, I referred to the question of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which ordered different treatment of the situation when the execution was carried out voluntarily. But, Minister, there's a record in this project that tells us that you're going backwards, which you were against at the committee meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not true, as you claim, that both regulations are the same because you introduce fixed fees, in fixed amounts, and in this project there are interest charges which differ completely as to the rules and rules according to which these charges are to be calculated. Ladies and gentlemen, next week, next week is September 19th, the Minister of Justice will support his project, which is different from what it means, in fact, that these drafts, which have been passed, will enter into force at the same time. No, this project today will be amended by a project that we will be debating next week and which will probably be at the next session of the Sejm. If the Ministry of Justice says today that this project should be supported, I understand that on 19 September it will say that it is withdrawing from its projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u301	When the next project is completed, it will be the will of the Sejm, not the minister, the High House will decide. [[The Minister should speak.]] I do not know whether we will consider this at the next session of the Sejm, Madame. [[That sounds like a threat.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1575 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 385 voted against - 32, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on bailiffs and executions. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1761. The question is raised by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u302	Mr. Marshal, it's not a question, it's a voice on behalf of the applicants, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u303	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before voting on the bill on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village, I would like to thank everyone for their work on this project, thank the Prime Minister for the positive position of the government, the Committee on Culture and all the groups who have declared their vote in favour of such an important day of national memory. I would like to thank PiS and the Civic Platform, the Kukiz Club15, the Modern One on behalf of us, the Polish People's Party as applicants. This law on 12 July establishes a day of memory of the heroes of the Polish village, about the martyrs of the Polish village, who during World War II created, first, armed resistance [[♪ The bell ♪]] within the second largest army - Battalions of Boys. Today we worshiped the National Armed Forces, it was the third army, the Boys' Battalions were the second army, and then they joined the National Army. We want to mention the Hubs, the Zamość Uprising. We would like to mention all these places, and there were almost 800, more than 800.817, in the territories of today's Republic, which have been pacified. Such an example of martyrdom, a flagship example, is Michniów in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, where all residents were murdered, including an 8-day-old infant. I would also like to mention all those who helped soldiers, citizens, fed and defended them. It is a special day for the Polish village to pay tribute and respect. I thank the High House for the declaration of vote, and now I ask for the unanimous adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u305	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1761, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law on the establishment of the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 40th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Anthony Baraniak, a soldier of the Incorruptible Church. Let's move on to the vote. One question is raised by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u306	Thank you, Marshal. I will have two questions, one for the applicant, the other for the rapporteur. But I will start by saying that there is no doubt that the heroic, unusual, extraordinary attitude of the archbishop. Baraniak in the course of the beastly interrogations in Stalin's times of terror deserves to be honoured, deserves a resolution of the Polish Sejm. On the other hand, the question to the rapporteur is: Since when is it so? Because I have been a parliamentarians for several years now, and I do not remember that in a resolution giving tribute and respect to a particular person there are quotes of another person - and to the Member of the applicant - especially if these are quotations from the archbishop. Jędraszewski called the Chaplain of Law and Justice, a very controversial person in the public debate. And one thing I want to say is that until... [[It's a shame that in this place...]] ...Removement request [[♪ The bell ♪]] this quote and the name of the author of this resolution will not be taken into account, we will, with full respect for Archbishop. Baraniak, vote against this resolution, precisely because of the desecration of the Archbishop's memory. Baraniaka with quotes from Archbishop. Jędraszewski. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Buu...]] [[Voices from the hall: Shame!]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u307	Thank you, sir. We're voting, right? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 1682, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 5, with 4 abstentions. [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating Archbishop Anthony Baraniak, a soldier of the steadfast Church, on the 40th anniversary of his death. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up in Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1650. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1650 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, drawn up at Santo Domingo on 25 October 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1693. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 1693, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 413 against - 3 with 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel on social security, signed at Jerusalem on 22 November 2016. We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1807. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. Are you an MP? [[There isn't. Come on, Marshal.]] There's no envoy. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1807, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management and certain other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 1809-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees yesterday considered this draft law and propose to reject all four amendments which were tabled at their meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u309	Thank you very much. In the additional report, the committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 40b. 1 applicants shall propose a different rate of the maximum recycling charge laid down in that provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Here are the questions. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u310	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The fees for plastic bags are already in force in 15 countries of the European Union, this is a good direction, but they are adapted to the salary of citizens. Today we want a clear declaration from the government that it will be 20 grams in the regulation. There cannot be a situation where the government gradually and imperceptibly raises the rate of the fee. Luckily, you were persuaded to have a recycling charge going to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management for the exchange of kilns, so-called. Cinderella, on a new generation stove. This is a very important issue, but I think it is very important for these plastic bags to set a good example and use re-use bags, ladies and gentlemen, while expressing our respect for the Constitution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to invite you to carry such a bag. [[The Member presents a bag bearing the inscription "Constitution."]] [[Potatoes are the best in them.]] [[Potatoes.]] [[The kids in Bangladesh are sick of these bags.]] [[This is desecration, indeed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u311	Thank you, Member. Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u312	Marshal, according to your request, I promise you that I will not mention any mention of the defeat of activists in the Białowieża Forest by the subordinate ministers of Szyszka employees, but I will refer to this amendment in substance. [[Applause]] We apply for a fee of 20 gr as the maximum. At the same time Minister Mazurek promises that the government regulation will talk about 20 gr, so we say: I check, let's write it down. We are pleased by the Minister's reply that the subsequent increase in this rate would require an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a standard for you. amending the law all the time in this House, most times you've been updating the law in the history of this House in the last 28 years, so don't be afraid of it. Don't burden... don't risk losing Poles, e.g. after the zloty, as stated in the Act, and that you will then collect PLN 1.5 billion in March 2019 to the central budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u313	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u314	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the Ministry expressly declares in the regulation the application of the amount requested by the opposition, i.e. 20 gr? This amount of PLN 1 which appears in the Act is a security that gives the Ministry the opportunity to react to the situation on the market. Like most European Union countries, we are committed to reducing the use of disposable bags, which are very damaging to the environment. Examples of other EU countries show that the use of such recycling charges reduces the use of these bags. And that's the goal we're aiming for. Thus, the Ministry has the possibility to raise a recycling levy in the future if this proves ineffective. Today, on the other hand, there is no need. In most laws, the Minister is simply authorised to be able to freely determine the rates and charges of different types. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u315	Thank you very much. Minister of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurek, asks for the floor. There you go. [[Bravo, Minister!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bill you will be voting on is an important implementation of European law. We are obliged to limit the number of multi-use bags. We want to encourage Poles to do so through a series of activities that we will undertake in the field of education. But, as one of the Members reminded during the readings and our discussions at committee meetings, these bags were already in Poland, we used them to a large extent. The Ministry of the Environment also encourages the use of a number of different bags. There is a great field for artists, but also for innovation in this area, and we will certainly go in this direction. Importantly, this fee, which is a requirement of the European Union... The European Union's requirement is to reduce the number of bags. The regulation we will be preparing, the first amount we will present, the amount for discussion, for a very broad debate, will be 20 gr. From our analyses, from the surveys we have conducted, a number of public consultations with more than 40 organisations, but also from the experience of other countries, it appears that the introduction of a fee results in a reduction here. Another solution would be to introduce ceilings and limit the number of these bags to 90 per citizen, which would be more difficult and then we would have to look for other tools. This is a tool, but I will remind you that in 2014 my predecessor, Minister Ostapiuk, announced the introduction of this type of charge, and even said clearly in an interview for one of the newspapers: we will not shake hands. We looked a little differently. We were looking for the best solutions. We believe that the amount of the fee will contribute to the implementation of European law and will be effective. Of course, we'll analyze it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u317	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Is this where you want to file a formal motion? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. Mr Robert Winnicki with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u318	Mr. Marshal! I have a request for a short break. I really am appealing to modern Members that you do not put the name Constitution on bags, bags, T-shirts. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Where else are you gonna put those subtitles? On toilet paper? [[Voice from the room: On the forehead.]] Really, have some respect and seriousness, don't make a public debate in the Seym because it's cheap, and it's not funny. The worst part is they're not funny. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u319	Thank you, sir. If I agree to your request, I'm announcing a three-second recess... [[Wait a minute.]] ...and I'm shutting her down. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm reopening the session. [[That's clever.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 192 voted against - 222, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment in the new wording of the following Article. 40c applicants propose that the levy on recycling should be the income of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club. [[We already know all about the bison.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u320	Mr. Marshal! Mrs Pavłowicz! You're saying I'm gonna talk about the bison. [[Don't wave.]] I would like to console the Member. No, I'm not gonna talk about the bison this time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing that the funds... [[Tell me, because the Germans shot our bison.]] Easy now, sir, 'cause I'm gonna ask you to add time. We propose that the funds, the funds from this fee, be transferred to the National Environmental Fund and go to ecology. You are still refusing to transfer these funds to the national fund. How do we know that? You're not gonna buy $250 million with a 20 gr bag of a new set of limos, what do you do all the time? You break them up and buy new limos. And you need money. How are the Poles supposed to know what this money's going for? Put it on ecology. The Minister distributed re-use bags to 10 Members. Let them be distributed to 1 million Poles and thus educate Poles about the use of these bags. Please support this action. Let's transfer this money to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. That would make sense. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u321	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all hope that these fees will be as low as possible, i.e. that Poles will not use plastic bags, and therefore there will be no such charges. However, if Poles from laziness continue to use them, really the funds that will be obtained from these fees will be very large. It could be a few hundred million, and I agree that this money should be under control. They should be protected by the environment. In this connection, it is appropriate that the national environmental fund is actually the responsibility of these funds, which does not mean that these funds will actually go to ecology and not to the Foundation of Fr Rydzyk or the Polish National Foundation, so that they will later be sent to the co-workers of the Prime Minister. We don't know that for sure, but we will make sure that this money actually goes where it should go - to ecology. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u323	I'd ask you to ask questions, not make statements. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is why you do not want to allow this fee to be addressed to the fund or to any other place that would allow us to say that we are not raising taxes today. Because we are huge supporters of this solution for environmental reasons, but we are not in favour of raising taxes. We do not want this to be considered a tax. If this is addressed to a place other than directly to the Treasury, we will at least have an argument that this is not a tax. That is why I would ask you to take this into account so that we can protect the environment, for the environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u325	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 192 voted against - 228, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 18th draft law of the applicant proposes to amend the provision on the entry into force of the law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's right, when we vote on these amendments, we show you the hypocrisy of running this bill because you charge fees, but you leave your forks to raise it several times more. You don't transfer funds from green to green, that's downloading, limiting the use of plastic bags, and you don't transfer that money back to ecology. And Mr Piontkowski, yesterday in front of several hundred thousand spectators, expressed his hope to me on TV that it would be for environmental purposes that this money would go. The last point is precisely the fact that there is no such requirement that it must enter on 1 January 2018. This is proof that you just need this money for some emergency needs in 2019. [[Applause]] Because this regulation might as well enter in January 2019 and not burden Poles for a year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u327	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u328	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! So far, I don't see any evidence that this money will be spent on any other purpose. It is only generally said that they will be addressed to the budget. So let us wait for how it will be done. On the other hand, as regards the date of the transfer, please note that this law also contains the second very important element sealing the waste management system in Poland. We're trying to eliminate the grey zone and the irregularities that exist there. [[Split up.]] So do you decide if we want to fight this right away, or do we have to give all kinds of crooks a chance for a year to make big money? And so it doesn't end the way it did with the VAT carousel when he lost the state budget. It's kind of hypocritical. If you are generally in favour of environmental protection, why do you want to wait until a year to protect this environment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So you don't steal the money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u329	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the content of the amendment, we consider it reasonable to change the date of entry into force of the Act. On the other hand, referring to Mr Cimoszewicz's words, Mr Cimoszewicz, I do not know why you want to support the government, but I say resolutely not to re-use bags, government re-use bags. We still don't want the government to print 1 million bags and hand them out to citizens. [[Applause]] Well, that would be a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u331	Thank you. [[Correction, Marshal, I was quoted. By name, Mr. Marshal, just a second ago...]] [[Sit down!]] [[But it wasn't a quote.]] Here you go, corrected by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u332	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, This would be the ideal solution if the Polish government took care of helping Poles... [[But no prints.]] ...and e.g. He taught them about ecology. It was for 8 years that platforms appeared containers for sorting various waste materials in small municipalities, but social awareness is still too low and it is necessary to continue work on it, and that requires funding. Bags would be a perfect example. I asked Minister Mazurka to improve this awareness. [[The government will go with the bags.]] Remember the old days, right past, people used to walk around with re-use bags. Do you see anything contradictory and wrong in this? Let's get back to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u333	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. There were 190 votes against, 225 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Marek Sowa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u334	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The bill is needed. And it's not that she's introducing a directive. The point is, from an environmental point of view. But just by introducing fees into the state budget, and not allocating them for environmental purposes, you are making a mistake. Instead of having the support of the entire House, the entire High House, you are really introducing a new garbage tax for your own needs. And that can't be allowed. Not so long ago in the work on the Water Law we introduced, it was established new institution - Polish Waters. A third of the revenue was taken from the national fund and the regional environmental funds. Today it so happens that at least part of this law could be complemented by environmental objectives implemented in regions or also by the National Environmental Fund, but your decision will not be so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u335	But I would ask you to ask questions, not to conduct further elements of the discussion. [[Why?]] Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I remain here to ask Minister Mazurk a question and ask how much we can trust your promises that this money will go to the right goals of ecology, which you have generally provided in committee and subcommittee meetings, and then whether we can count on the promises that you will not at least write another regulation in this term or raise this rate. Are you prepared to promise this to the Poles? We will support this law for precisely the reasons that Mr Piontkowski mentioned here, saying that this law seals this system. This is a very important aspect of this bill. I regret that you did not lean on these amendments, and you realize that there are full grounds for submitting them, and that is why we requested them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u337	Please, Mr Kaminski, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a fundamental question. The way it is with this Europe, I have cognitive dissonance. Suddenly I hear that the argument for Poles to pay more is the European directive and not a word about getting out of their knees, not a word about the fact that European officials impudently interfere in our lives, not a word about Poland being sovereign, that we must protect our shopkeepers, because thus their customers, Polish, small shops, will have to pay more because of Europe's decision. And there's silence. No dignified politics. Why? Because there's money from Europe. If there's money thanks to Europe, then suddenly we forget that you have to get off your knees, only you have to open your pockets. [[Applause]] When Europe talks about protecting the Bialowieza Forest, no. If he says that European rules must be respected, then no. What he says is that you have to be tolerant, that you have to show mercy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To people who run from war, it's not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u339	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u340	But how can you make money for your friends...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u341	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u342	... Riddocks and others, that's right. Thank you. [[Applause]] That was a question, Mr. Marshal. Marshal, let me tell you something about the questions. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[I can't hear you. The microphone's off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u343	Mr President, we are talking about a law on packaging and packaging waste management, and you are talking about various issues, but not about this. Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. [[You'll figure it out, you'll understand, you'll think about it sometime.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u344	With regard to the question that the Member has just asked, it is important to state clearly... [[But the marshal said it wasn't a question.]] ...that, as Members, we are actually adopting a large part of the legislation, which is only a transposition of European law, as you all know very well, and therefore, in principle, with a large part of the legislation, the Member should ask such a question. On the other hand, on the other hand, I call on you to vote in favour of this law because it not only protects our environment but, above all, seals the waste management system. We have talked quite much so far about the fact that there have been huge irregularities in VAT charges. There were enormous amounts, reaching billions of zlotys. Here we cannot talk about such large amounts, but these are also millions of zlotys, which are not necessarily legally functioning in this area. For this reason, even if we need to support this law, and also be green, let us protect the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u345	Thank you. I ask you again to follow the rules of procedure and to speak in question at these points. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1809, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 16, 10 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1811. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal amends the existing legal provisions that operate in Poland, and the aim is primarily to bring them into line with the MCP Directive. However, from this point of view, I would like to call on the government to prepare implementing regulations efficiently and reliably, in accordance with the EU Directive, in such a way that the entities covered by this Directive have time to adapt to the new rules, but also to include them in investment processes and funding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u347	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, the liberal Marshal of the Sejm hasn't been here yet. He listens to the appeal and doesn't respond. [[Applause]] [[It wasn't.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1811 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 414 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1808. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1808, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 412, 1 Member voted against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 20 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: - a parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the law on social assistance, - a government bill amending the Social Assistance Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1816-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Krupka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Five amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm re-directed the project to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family to give an opinion. After consideration by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on 14 September, the committee requests that they be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u349	Thank you. The amendments tabled by the committee in this additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been withdrawn. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Assistance Act. In the third amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 64b. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 4. The Commission is asking, as we have heard, to reject this amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 185 voted against - 225, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 64b propose to delete paragraph 64b of the applicant. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Second Republic, although a young and very, very poor country, remembered its heroes, participants of the January Uprising. For obvious reasons, there were very few. The law we are talking about today also applies to a small number of people. We cannot treat those people to whom we owe so much, in a selective, difficult financial situation of local governments, to justify their refusal to help them. The amendment I'm proposing is the least interfering with the bill. It will cost us nothing, but it will prevent us from refusing assistance for financial reasons. We must find the means for this noble purpose, because if we forget our own history, we will not survive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u351	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 192 voted against - 219, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 64c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Previously, the question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Resignation.]] [[I'm resigning, Mr. Marshal.]] But you're just giving up asking questions, aren't you? [[Yes.]] Okay, I get it. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Porwich, Club Kukiz 15. [[Voice from the room: He resigned, too.]] I see. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1816 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 2, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Assistance Act. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft Print Act No 1775 be adopted without amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1775, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - no one, with 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Lisbon on 11 March 1993. We return to the consideration of item 39 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law on specific solutions to improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare services. The additional committee report is in print No 1824-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft law on specific solutions for improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare services. At yesterday's Health Committee meeting, these amendments received a negative opinion. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u353	Thank you very much. The Commission is proposing, as we have heard, the adoption of a draft law. It's the 1824 print. The additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st amendment in the following article. 3a applicants propose, inter alia, increase funding for health services in areas where patient waiting times are particularly strained. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is very important because, over the next three years, it allocates funds to deliver on the promise of the club's state, PiS. Firstly, as early as 2011 Mr Kaczyński promised that the dental office would be in every school. Not so long ago, in October 2015. - unless, because the 13th, you have to have doubts - it was promised by Prime Minister Szydło. What is the effect of this promise of a dental clinic in each school? It's that you're buying 16 dentobuses at over 40 grand. Councils. That means that the Dentobus will come to the village once every 10 years. That's the advantage. So, my question. In the absence of the law that speaks about providing services - there are no basket changes - will this dentobus not only serve and only promote the PiS in the local government campaign? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I'm sure he's not being treated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] teeth in children in rural schools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u355	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats. [[There isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u356	Thank you very much, Marshal. My question is for Minister Radziwill. Minister, how did it happen that in just a few weeks, with promises reaching 2.5 billion, the budget allocated in connection with the adoption of this law has fallen almost tenfold? [[12 days.]] Did you, Minister, when you made this promise, not know what you were saying, whether you were saying the truth or whether the financial situation of the Polish state governed by the PiS government was so dramatic that within 12 days, from 2.5 billion to 280 million, the allocated funds for carrying out the tasks of this law were reduced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u357	Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska, Deputy Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Katarzyna Głowala.]] I'm sorry, Catherine Głowala, Deputy Minister of Health, wanted to speak. There you go. ♪ My eye has wandered ♪ somewhere else.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u358	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mrs Radziszewska's questions, the answer to all these questions was given yesterday, during the second reading. [[You're kidding.]] But I'll say it again. In this specialty we also allocate 134 million dollars to the equipment of offices in schools. [[Nurses, not dentists.]] Nurses. We're buying 16 dentobuses. But this is just the beginning. The Ministry of Health is working on comprehensive dental diagnostics for children. Under these laws, we will also equip dental offices in smaller towns. [[In the dentobuses?]] We're trying to get the dentobuses there. At first it's only 16. As the next months pass, we'll be buying more dentobuses. It was the same with mammograms and mobile blood drawpoints. It also started with a few, then bought, and the Minister of Health bought more. On the other hand, as far as the amount of funds is concerned, I would remind you that this amount is only part of the amount that we spend this year on investment purchases. Further appropriations will be made available over the next months. Two applications have already been made for the launch of another 400 million PLN, apart from those which are written in this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u359	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 180 voted against - 218, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of our amendment is Art. 9 of this law, which is justified by the increase in expenditure on the financing of the purchase of pneumococcal vaccines from 160 to 251 million in 2017. Therefore, I have a question for the applicants. Will the improvement of vaccine quality, possibly the change from PCV10 to PCV13, or the change of supplier, which raises doubts about a number of people who think about vaccination in Poland? I'm asking for an answer on this subject. If this is not possible today, please write it in writing. And here we ask the honourable House to accept our amendment and delete this article in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u361	Thank you. Minister, why don't you answer in writing? Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... [[Voices from the room: Correction.]] Sorry about the third amendment. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 41 against - 357, with 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The vote on the entire bill will be preceded by questions. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u362	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Izbo! This bill was introduced at an express rate. She showed up on Wednesday, and we're voting on her today. It concerns the purchase of health equipment and equipment and thus Polish patients. But Polish patients need not only apparatus, they need people to take care of them, including nurses. Since yesterday, 650 nurses have been protesting at Kalisz Voivodeship Hospital, which cannot get a decent raise - they received 18 PLN each. So I have a question for the government. When can we expect such a special wage for health care, especially the salaries of this staff, who has been injured and earning disproportionately little in relation to the contribution of work to the protection of Polish patients? All users [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what we know. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u363	Please. Mr Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u364	Mr. Marshal, Minister Radziwiłł said there would be PLN 2.8 billion, because we need to buy additional procedures so that people do not stand in queues. And the queues in your day have already increased, some two and three times, and when a network of hospitals is built, they will extend even more. So? They were supposed to be queues, and they melted the money, and instead of 2.8 billion, there's 281 million. They have to be spent by the end of the year. I wonder how you're gonna settle the tenders. Once again, it will go to a company founded 3 months ago by PiS activists. Very interesting. Minister, I'd like to ask you why you're saying you're cheating people, that you're going to improve the quality of services, shorten the queues, and you're really buying dentobuses that you don't know where they're going, instead of investing in the dental offices that they are. You give the equipment to the clinics, which is to those places that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minister owns it, and the money doesn't go where it actually...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u365	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u366	...are needed by patients.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u368	Minister, this is a disgrace. [[Applause]] [[Time, Marshal. What's this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u369	Thank you, Member. You are cheating, disgrace - these are words that, to be honest, do not really fit this debate. [[Yeah, it's very real.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you have a knack for censoring.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1824 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The vote was 376 against - 3 and 22 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted by a large majority a law on specific solutions to improve the quality and availability of health care services. We return to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment by an absolute majority, it shall be deemed adopted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 3 400e Act Environmental Law. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project further improves the process of taking over independent voivodship environmental funds by central government... [[Independents?]] [[Independents?]] Marshal, interfere in such situations. ...by strengthening the position of the voivods and the minister of the environment in the process of appointing members of their boards. This is already the third approach with regard to the law on voivodship environmental funds. I would like to ask if it would not be better and cheaper if you listened to what the local government and the management board of regional environmental funds have to say. Surely there wouldn't be so many mistakes and so many approaches to one and the same bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u371	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Dominik Tarczyński, club Law and Justice. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u372	I wasn't supposed to react, but as I hear from the Member about the independence of the provincial centers, I would like to ask if this is true, Minister... [[Funds.]] [[Voice from the hall: Regional funds.]] ...I would like to ask, on the occasion, whether it is true that the CBA has just detained one of the former PSL Members who held a high position in the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship centre. That's the question about PSL. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Have you ever heard of presumption of innocence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u373	Let me remind you that the committee is asking for amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 381 Members voted. The absolute majority is 191. 142 voted against - 235, with four abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 375 Members voted. The absolute majority is 188. The vote was 8 against 249 and 118 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2016, together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. A request for rejection of the information submitted was made in the discussion. I will put this proposal to the vote. I would remind you that the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development requests that the information contained in print No 1589 be accepted. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The assessment of zones is not easy or easy because it requires the participation of many actors, among others. management boards of companies of zones, local governments, regional governments, but also Polish Investment and Trade Agency and ministries. Only the cooperation of these many entities can bring foreign capital to Poland and strengthen the pro-investment of domestic companies. It is also important - and I would like to take this into account - that this capital that we invest in is the capital of modern technologies, so that the added value resulting from the scientific development, knowledge and skills of employees can be added. I also believe that this report is a summary of work over a period of two to three years, which is also taking into account the work of previous governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u375	However, I would ask you to ask questions, because this is the time to ask questions. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Another fireworks were launched at the Economic Forum. Prime Minister Morawiecki announced: Poland is one special economic zone. Prime ministers, in 2015, you took over a thriving economy in good condition, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excellently prosperous special economic zones. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Yes. And I don't know if you know what you've done. In 14 zones, the zone management companies, you canceled 13 CEOs, and this one is 14. - left in Slupsk only because you have a marshal over him. The result of your Marxist management above all is that in 2016 during the global economic economy, the growth of investments is decreasing by 9% and the growth of jobs by 5%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the next revolutionary performance of Prime Minister Morawiecki... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...is all over Poland about Pisiewicz and Misiewicz? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u377	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the motion for rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection of the document - Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. On 31 December 2016, in print No 1589, he would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. 115 votes against, 266 abstentions, 12. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 1828). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 1828 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 365 Members voted. The vote was 362, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (print No 1831). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Sejm Committee of Investigation has submitted a proposal for changes in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear, no one's checking in. Let me remind you that on the basis of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry for Changes in the Personal Composition of the Committee of the Sejm shall be made by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 1831, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 366 Members voted. The absolute majority is 184. The vote was 354 and no one voted against, 12 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1829). The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal on this matter. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, no one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1829 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 314 Members voted. The vote was 303, against - 5, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 50 hrs 13 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2016 and on the status of respect for human and civil rights (print No 1635), together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 1786). Mr. Adam Bodnar, may I present your information?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u378	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present information on the activities of the Ombudsman and on the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2016. The document is extensive, close to 1000 pages. However, it concerns more than 50,000. the affairs of people who have turned to the Ombudsman because they have found that the State and public institutions are violating their rights. The Ombudsman's job is to check, answer, help. Sometimes you tell them what else you can do. But first of all, consider what needs to be changed in our legal system, in the work of offices, in order to help people, not to leave them in misery. And that's what annual information is about. I hope that all of us here, who have taken up the service of the citizens, can benefit in their work from the information contained in the annual data spokesperson, proposals for solutions and problems to be corrected. He can find inspiration for action and response to human concerns. High Izbo! Our common task is to work to make the Ombudsman's report less extensive next year. We can achieve this by working together and focusing on what is most important. Therefore, in this speech I wanted to point out some specific issues of particular importance. I'd like to start with the hardest ones, the most dramatic ones. Torture on the police. On 15 May 2016, a young man, Igor Stachowiak, died at the Wrocław Police Station after being electrocuted by handcuffed handcuffs from a stun gun. The Taser is not used for this - it is intended to replace firearms in critical situations. The stun gun hurts. You will remember this for a long time, because each of us followed the case of Mr. Robert Dziekonski, who died at Vancouver Airport a few years ago as a result of the use of a stun gun. Igor Stachowiak was tortured and died. The investigation is ongoing, but - and it must be noted - has accelerated only after the free and independent media published the recording of the incident, as the journalists who fulfilled their most important mission to society - informed the case with their own professional responsibility. High Izbo! I'm talking about this dramatic case because it's not an exception. It's not just an unfortunate accident. Our police, as well as uniformed services around the world, have a problem with the use of unwarranted violence. Our common task is to create such conditions so that such violence does not occur. The Ombudsman shall perform the task of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. It was Poland's task to ratify the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Torture. The assumption is simple: prevention is the most important thing, not chasing the perpetrators when it's too late. Such mechanisms must be created for early response, checking, monitoring, so that we do not have to grieve later because of human tragedy. The Ombudsman examined 22 legal cases that have ended in the last 8 years with a final sentence for 33 police officers. This is a system problem. We must stop this and this is one of the most important things to do to protect citizens' rights. It happens all over the country, these cases are from Koszalin, Bolesławec, Olsztyn, Lipna and many, many other cities. Firstly, I would like to stress that torture does not occur in cases of serious, dramatic investigations, but in cases of minor, ordinary, simply burdensome cases, such as. stealing. Victims of violent questions that precede a formal hearing are generally weaker, less educated, less resourceful, those who do not immediately call a lawyer who does not even know that they have such a right. That's why it's so important that after the arrest, everyone, not just wealthy and educated people, has access to the help of a lawyer. It is known from the world's experience that this definitely limits aggressive behavior. Secondly, the use of a taser should be documented as well as the use of firearms. That's what I asked the Chief of Police to do, and I'm counting on it to be settled. Thirdly, we must introduce the definition of torture into our Penal Code. Officers need to be fully aware of what they are responsible for, because there is a difference between responsibility for excesses, abuse of a deprived person and responsibility for torture. So let's introduce a crime of torture into the Penal Code. These demands have been addressed by the Ombudsman to the authorities for years. We owe it to Igor Stachowiak to remember. Another problem that I wanted to bring to the attention of the High House concerns burdensome investments. Imagine the housing estate on the sidelines, among the fields of the former PGR. We've always had crops here. And at the same time in these fields there are huge breeding farms, somewhere in the middle of Wielkopolska. The farms, as people report, were created in a few months, under the cover of a growing field of corn. When the corn was cut, the halls were already standing, because the formalities of our country are getting better and better, the construction is not a big challenge either. Effect? Fetor, the stink isn't the only problem these people are struggling with. Much is in the area so much that in the summer there are no windows opening at all. It's full of rodents. You can catch a lot of rodents at home one night. This place is no longer fit for life, but where are these people supposed to go when they've been living here for years, and if no one wants to buy this property from them, and the court's way of investigating damages - is it awfully cumbersome? What's the problem? In theory, residents could have become a party to this situation before these farms were formed. They could ask for details, make the local authorities aware that the cost for the environment could be greater than the expected benefits of the investment, but they did not know it. They didn't know the investment was planned, they didn't know what the legal possibilities were. The municipal or district government did not contribute to the consultation. Local rowers often care about investment, because it means higher taxes, but the comfort of citizens is taken care of less. In the Member States of the European Union, this problem has long been collided with. This is why the European Union has put in place solutions for proper consultation in order to help citizens and resolve unnecessary conflicts through dialogue. Now people are just angry, only their anger is left, their anger at our country. High Izbo! The Ombudsman, meeting with people all over the country, sees a lot of such examples. Someone near the house grew windmill farms. Another family was surrounded on three sides by large pillars of power line high voltage, or a fully automated but stinking or humming factory stood next to it. These are new phenomena because our country is developing, but we also have to deal with the dark sides of economic development together. This is why the Ombudsman calls for clear standards for odor, draws attention to the need to regulate noise, which causes mass events, for example. This is why I have welcomed the changes to the rules that apply to wind farms in the part in which they restricted the placing of windmills very close to citizens. But this is why the Ombudsman's office is trying to inform citizens and NGOs about their rights so that local communities can be heard before decisions are taken. Hearing should be a sanctity, not just a burdensome bureaucratic duty. Therefore, I would stress that these consultations are extremely important and cannot be treated façadely. It is important to ensure that citizens know that something important is happening and that they have the right to speak. And if decisions have already been made, the Ombudsman tries to join the proceedings as far as possible and question the decisions already taken. He also supports people whose family homes have lost value because of such investments in the neighborhood in court proceedings. But let me say again that we will not solve this problem if we do not act together. Understanding environmental problems is also beneficial for entrepreneurs in the long run. But improving the law to make it really sustainable is a task that the government itself cannot do. However, it can draw on the knowledge of citizens working in so many non-governmental organisations. They know where there are traps in the thick of the rules, they know what needs to be changed, you just have to ask them about it. High Izbo! Another issue, another topic, especially painful - homeless Poles in Poland and abroad. The homeless crisis, contrary to what we are willing to believe, can affect anyone. From my practice, I know that homeless people are economists, chefs, waiters, crane and forklift operators, builders, shoemakers, artists, painters, musicians, electricians, locksmiths, actually all the competitions. Even former politicians. They are also sailors who dream of finishing a sea yacht and going on a cruise around the world because they want to realize this dream because it is the goal of their lives. Something we couldn't predict, an accident, bankruptcy, a family crisis. There are situations where everything goes to ruins because we haven't been able to control our emotions or our addictions. People go looking for work in big cities, including cities in other European countries, and if it doesn't work, they often refuse to admit defeat, they stay on the street. How can we help them? Cooperation and coordination are needed again. Not everyone wants help, but everyone should know that if he needs help, the Polish state will help him. We have quite a lot to do, and that's important, especially since we have failed to convince the government to coordinate action on homelessness. E.g. Homeless people cannot benefit from free legal assistance because this is how the aid bill is constructed. I'm glad the president's project might be able to change that. Homeless shelters cannot formally accept people in need of care and health care, and winter is coming. Fortunately, we have the announcement of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy that shelters for homeless people providing care services will be built. This is a step in the right direction. Here's another example. The rules allow you to evict the police office and other uniformed services. The Ombudsman referred the case to the Constitutional Court. It'll be two years in a month. So? The case is still not resolved by the Constitutional Tribunal, either legislatively or by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Living+ program is worthwhile because it really gives people a chance to get a roof over their heads who do not buy or rent apartments on the free market, without guarantees protecting them from eviction on the pavement of people in difficulty. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. The provisions protecting tenants do not apply to flats purchased on credit. The rules are older than the practice of taking loans for apartments. What does that mean? And the fact that a non-paying borrower can be bid on and evicted to a shelter, regardless of whether or not he is in an innocent situation. The law is late for social development. While we are talking about loans for housing, I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman, together with the financial spokesman and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, launched an information campaign for people who have taken out loans called popularly franchise. We drive around the country, explain to people that they don't have to wait for a legal solution, that our right has to offer them a lot of opportunities right now, and that there are also opportunities to help free of charge, that it has to be used, because it will change the situation, and it is slowly starting to change. This is a good example of the fact that it is worth investing in good communication with citizens, that there are many important topics that can be addressed in large information campaigns, because it would really make life easier for people. Speaking of the problem of lack of a roof over my head, however, I cannot overlook many of the important beneficial changes that are taking place in our country. It is not only the living +, but also the cooperation at ministerial level on a number of specific but sometimes very important legal issues for people - that is the case. Here, the Ombudsman's cooperation with the responsible ministers is quite decent. These actions may not be suitable for stripes on information television, but improve people's lives, strengthen their sense of security, increase their confidence in the state. There's no way around, High Izbo, the problems of people with disabilities. I'm sorry to say this, but our country is still a disabled country. It works well in ordinary situations, but when you need to see something, hear something, go helping, you can't do it. One example I still have in front of me, with Chelm. Just a year ago, September 15th, I was at a regional meeting in Chelm. After Puławy, Kraśnik, Opole Lubelski, Zamość in the afternoon, our minibus and employees arrived in Chełm. We saw beautiful models of airplanes outside the headquarters of the State Higher Professional School, and then we started talking to the residents at a prepared meeting. At that meeting, an elder spoke about the situation of his family. She's got an adult daughter with a deep disability. This gentleman and his wife are taking care of her. They both feel the burden of years and have no help from anywhere. I keep hearing this gentleman's words: "My child has rejected me everywhere because they claim that he does not qualify for such a disability." My daughter sits at home crying, and after all, a three - four - hour living room would be enough. If you don't help us, how are we gonna handle this? Yeah, how? Cases of people with disabilities people report to a spokesman throughout Poland. Regional meetings have already been held in almost 100 localities in the last two years. We always hear about what happens when a sick child comes into a normal family, there's an accident, there's a disease, age takes power. We don't have a system to help people whose disability doesn't give them a chance to rehabilitate any kind of professional activity. This is where all the care falls on the shoulders of the family. And if this family has a problem, what? Put the baby in a nursing home? I know an example of many communities who do very well in such situations, where NGOs, churches, local authorities work well together. There are environmental self-help homes, other people-specific assistance programs. Except it's an archipelago of hope at the sea of human drama for now. These good practices should become the norm, not the exception. I brought up the Chelm case to show you how difficult it is to help. After our meeting, this very regional meeting a year ago, the local community, ecclesiastical authorities and NGOs took this enormous effort to work out a solution there with the help of the Ombudsman. That's where it's happening right now. But it's not a job for a few months, it's a job for years. Yesterday I found out that there's already a building in which help can be provided. Families, because people in this situation are more in Chelm, they say: something has moved, some work is going on, there is hope, though it is slow. To be solved immediately, in addition to such different local problems, where there is just no proper care for people with disabilities, where parents fear what will happen to their children, as they leave, we have a few systemic issues that we have known about for years. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014 is not enforced, which, at the request of Members of the Law and Justice, ordered the amendment of the rules on assistance to caretakers of persons with disabilities. Today, two families can take permanent care of adult children with disabilities, but in one guardian gets 1406 zł and in the other - 520 zł, and only if in such a family income per person does not exceed 764 zł, because the amount of help depends on whether disability was detected in childhood, then the aid is higher or in adult age, because it is the result of a communication accident. The Court found this incompatible with the Constitution. From the point of view of carers, parents, it doesn't really matter whether the disability arose at a child's age or when a family member was older, because it's their responsibility to take care of them and they have to spend their time. Children's carers are not allowed to work even if they are engaged in free competitions. If someone takes care of a very disabled parent and can't work because of it, they might have trouble getting backup. People just have to go to court on a case like this. The courts regularly agree with them. I know this because the Ombudsman is trying to support them regularly, to facilitate legal arguments, but how many people do not know that this is exactly what the Constitution is for, to invoke it in a court of law at a time like this. It's just one of the problems with people with disabilities. We could sit here late in the evening and talk about the next one. The fact that sign language has not been accepted in our offices, that people with guide dogs are still not allowed into various public places, electoral sites and universal design of public buildings. Plenty of different everyday problems that vary depending on the type of disability. Behind each of these problems lies suffering, humiliation, the feeling that you are a second-class citizen, something worse than others. After all, we all have to create conditions every day to make people with disabilities feel like full citizens. High Izbo, another difficult problem: nursing homes and their residents. The media has repeatedly reported the situation of residents of homes who have been cruelly and thoughtlessly treated. Ties to chairs, locked in a room, bound to bed, beaten, covered with cold water. Very often journalists ask me: Mr. Spokesman, what can you do? How can we improve the rules so that all those responsible for such treatment have a strict responsibility? Except punishment after the fact can't solve the problem. We're a society that's getting old. Families don't live together, seniors do it themselves until the forces leave them completely. Then a frightened family is looking for a place to be cared for. She is all the more terrified if she has lived in the UK for years and her parents have remained unattended in their homeland, support, solidarity. This phenomenon can be seen in statistics. Care facilities are growing in commercial facilities controlled by the voivodship or simply carried out on the basis of ordinary business activities. Do carers in these homes know how to behave, what standards are, what is acceptable, and what is absolutely unthinkable when it comes to people who can no longer defend themselves? The Ombudsman knows that he does not know, because violations of the rights and dignity of residents also occur in social assistance homes, which are controlled by the State and which the Ombudsman has been preventively visiting for years. On the other hand, the Ombudsman's team is able to visit about 100 institutions per year. Think of all the places of imprisonment, prisons, arrests, psychiatric hospitals, police children's chambers, social services houses, shelters for minors, youth educational centers. All these places we have 1800. And only 100 a year allows the Ombudsman's budget. Despite this, we decided last year because we believe that this is our responsibility to visit these commercial nursing homes - not traditional DPSs, just commercial ones, and this is a few hundred additional places - because we believe that this is the most effective way to protect our seniors. If it is possible to increase the resources allocated to these preventive actions, seniors will be safer. As for ourselves, middle-aged people, younger people, as to what our old age is going to be like, here we have something to propose. Together with a team of experts supporting the Ombudsman, we have developed a set of actions that are worth taking locally so that older people can stay at home as long as possible and not go to nursing homes. This is also not an easy task, because it requires action in at least seven areas, coordinated, comprehensive action, but we try. We're talking to local government. They're interested in involving the local community, interesting ideas, solutions. They also share their own thoughts. Assistance and cooperation with parliamentarians are needed here as much as possible. You could talk about seniors' problems for a long time. We could talk about the violation of their consumer rights, we could talk about geriatrics, we could talk about the availability of medicines, we could talk about the availability of health services, but I can only illustrate one of those problems where they are actually the most vulnerable, because in fact they are often deprived of freedom. High Izbo, matters of honor and dignity of the citizens. Every Polish citizen should have these matters in particular. And when a Polish citizen, a prisoner of Auschwitz, demands a proper apology from German television for the formulation of the Polish concentration camp, we must be there for him. The Ombudsman has been and is still dealing with the case at this stage of enforcement of the judgment of the final court. When people talk about how they're at war or earlier, e.g. in Radom, they were treated by the police, how they were humiliated, how they were abused or unlawfully deprived of freedom, we cannot say: but it has expired. Yes, the victims of major crimes were tried by the state to make amends, but in the case of crimes that were punishable by punishment up to the age of 5, we considered them to be statute of limitations. This is the 1995 law. Is that how it's supposed to be? I am not talking about the issue of property compensation, but about noticing the history of these people, hearing them, apologizing, establishing facts. Therefore, I look forward to examining the application which I sent to the Constitutional Tribunal in spring 2016. It concerns an examination of the constitutionality of the solutions adopted in 1995, because then the legislator made it possible to prosecute communist crimes, but the law was written so that it allowed only more serious crimes to be prosecuted. I look forward to what the tribunal will do with this case, and if not the tribunal, perhaps the legislator. To repair injury is a difficult task, but by solving this problem, the more we should try not to do further harm. Unfortunately, this was the case with the pension rights law for officers of various uniformed services and members of their families. I do not even want to use the popular publicist name of this law, which was adopted on 16 December 2016, because it is harmful, given its entire scope. She was supposed to make amends, and from the perspective of the Ombudsman, she's adding a lot of new ones because she's taking collective responsibility. It was approved not in this House, but in the next room. There was no discussion, there were no amendments, and they could prevent many disasters. There were also no amendments in the Senate, although the heroes of our history sought it, as few people persecuted by the Security Service. It is written that anyone who worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before 1989 may be considered by family, friends, neighbors to be covered by the law, called ubek. Since December 2016, we already have 1300 applications of astonished people who ask: For what? They say this: the Third Republic checked me, verified me, faithfully served her/served her, creating new special forces, the new Police. She trusted me, and I gave her the best, often risking her life and health. Or they ask: For what? I used to be a programmer, I used to be an athlete, only employed in a police club. Why should a child who is disabled from birth lose his pension? Because you're punishing such dead parents? Why should the family of the deceased in the service of the Third Polish officer have reduced benefits? And finally, the hardest question. Isn't the legislator about to come up with any more ideas about collective responsibility relating to other professional groups: soldiers, perhaps diplomats, prosecutors, judges, or even teachers? In the future, in 20, 30 years' time, would we like similar solutions to be applied to officials working in a given period? Because that's how this bill works. Does not account for people with their individual actions, applies collective responsibility. Others may not have been so lucky. We have earned rights in 2016, which collectively deprives people of their honor and dignity. And indeed, we can see that in its modes there are people who the legislator did not really mean. This law still works and hurts. They need to be improved quickly and the state has a duty to protect the dignity of every citizen. High Izbo! Now I want to talk about the citizens' right to court. It's a subject you can't miss. The right to an independent court guarantees human rights and freedoms. Without an independent court, we have no guarantee of human rights and freedoms and of the citizen. The story of the seicinto driver, who had the misfortune to crash into the Prime Minister's car, happened this year. I'm not gonna talk about her. I'm gonna keep an eye on her. But last year we had a case of parents who in court demanded reimbursement of medicines for children with rare diseases, contrary to the opinion of the Minister of Health. We still have a lot of domestic violence cases. In these cases the independence of the court and impartiality of the prosecutor's office are of particular value, especially if the perpetrator is a prominent member of the local community. And in each of these cases, the independence of the court is a key value. Because when Temida weighs two different rations, no one should be able to put their finger on the government's side or politicians' side. I'm gonna say what I'm saying all the time. Polish courts need to be changed. Recently, here in this House, I have shown our publication on the 20 cassations with which the Ombudsman spoke. It is clear from this study how much citizens' rights, especially those who are weaker and less resourceful, escape the attention of our Themida. But the reasons for this are in many regulations, changes that have been made to solve one problem, and there is another at that time. The procedure has been accelerated, and on the other hand judgments are made in matters that are not clear and simple, so they cannot be judged without listening to a man. We really have a lot to fix. The courts also need to reflect on what is wrong with their daily work and relations with citizens. I repeat all the time that the current debate, which is taking place in Poland, means not only the need for changes concerning different types of regulations, but also changes in the way of the court's relationship with the citizen. The Ombudsman signals the need for these changes in many speeches. On Tuesday, I sent a complete list of speeches, including those presented in 2015, in 2016, or even earlier by my predecessors, to the Polish President's Office to indicate what needs to be improved, hoping that this might be useful in working on the projects that you are preparing for the President. Maybe not necessarily those two laws that we're all waiting for, but they might show up -- I'm counting on it -- another one. These are all specific changes that don't turn very well into simple slogans, but they determine the affairs of thousands of people. It goes on, among other things. The extent of the cases dealt with by the courts, the assistance to judges who investigate cases which are becoming increasingly difficult - from complicated family matters, cross-border disputes when one of the parents of the child lives outside the country, and the care of the child is being dealt with, finally, to complex building and financial matters. Take, for example, the so-called loans. francs. The aim is also to improve the system of delivery of legal mail, to promote mediation, to finally solve the problem of judicial experts, because sometimes they are waiting very long for their opinions or are not of the best quality, or finally to ensure that people with disabilities have the right to fair access to the court. These problems are many, many others. You could talk about them for a long time. In this context, however, the effects of the changes in the Constitutional Court must not be forgotten. What does it matter to people? It's that the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law. If the tribunal is not alert, then the temptation to adopt the new law quickly, without analysis, without consultation, is increasing, because the mechanisms that such a right could stop, improve, and yet the law can be burdened with errors that the projectors have not noticed, can act in a way that the projectors have not foreseen. It's a dangerous situation, because the law is just starting to be tested on people. They become the first victims of underdogs, gaps or neglect. And good law quality is a very important guarantee of legal security. Both this and the right to court, the right to a lawyer, the legal empowerment of citizens, and thus the ability to act independently through the awareness of their rights and the availability of legal assistance, this is extremely important. And that is why I am presenting to the High House all these stories that happen to people in order to demonstrate this. One more thing. Can we, as a Member State of the European Union, be treated as a party that can be trusted? All cooperation in civil matters, in criminal, family matters is based on mutual trust, on trust of the court in Barcelona to the court in Warsaw, on trust of the court in Düsseldorf to the court in Wrocław. It goes on, among other things. for criminal cases, when Poland asks for the release of a criminal who escaped from the country somewhere to the remote beaches of Catalonia, but also about the custody of the child when one of the parents lives in Wrocław and the other in Düsseldorf. If there is no mutual trust, unfortunately, this cooperation between courts will not work well and people will suffer. High Izbo! Another question: How do Poles deal with the consequences of the migration crisis? It is very difficult to talk about a problem so politically determined. So let's stick to the facts. Poland did not accept refugees who reached Europe from the South, but it still welcomes people fleeing from the beginning of the 1990s from violence and war from the East. We accept these fugitives less than a year or two before, but we still accept them. They live among us, they work among us, they heal us, they take births, they conduct economic activities. Nothing's wrong. They're with us. At the same time, there is a wave of hatred among us and it is seen in crime statistics. Foreign students who come to us as part of an international exchange, hear threats and questionable jokes. The easiest thing is - and that's what I'm talking to them - the question is: Where's your bomb, Arab? Some of them are beaten. The history professor is beaten on the Warsaw tram because he speaks German with his colleague. It is increasingly heard that customers of popular kebabs react with uncontrolled aggression when they don't like the service or the dish, and more than 95% young people meet with hate speech and contempt on the Internet. Poles are increasingly hearing anti-Muslim and anti-Semitic speeches on television, and they allow hate speech themselves. This is a very serious problem. Hate and anger begins to strike at us, at the foundations of our country, at the fundamental values that lay at the heart of our culture, our heritage, but also at the opportunities of our country's development. Because that's what happens if entrepreneurs coming to the international fair are informed that they shouldn't walk alone on the street. Because that's what happens when colleges start warning foreign students not to go out on the street alone. Because it is, if athletes, two years ago worshipped like heroes, are booed because of their religion and skin tone. That's why it's so important to stop aggression and hatred. The Ombudsman tries to meet with the victims of aggression or at least to give them an apology and a statement of support. In the last two weeks I have met either personally, or through my representatives with people from Ukraine, Ethiopia, Egypt and Chechnya. We are trying to monitor prosecutorial and judicial proceedings, but it is important that we all do so - we, representatives of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! May I be allowed here, at this point, to quote the wise words of someone I had the privilege of meeting during one of our regional meetings, Archbishop. Alfonso Nosol. When I asked him what to do today, how to deal with a wave of bad emotions and conflicts, he answered: the solution is dialogue. This is the mother tongue of humanity, because the enemy turns into an enemy, and the enemy turns into a friend. High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I have not yet talked about many other problems that are serious for people: problems with reprivatization, in Poland, not only in Warsaw, about women's rights, problems with access to health care, violations of the right to privacy and surveillance, issues arising from violations of the principle of equal treatment. It's when someone gets treated worse not because of what they do, but because of who they are, because of their religion, their age, their sexual orientation... This is all on this thousand pages that I have presented to the High House. Finally, I would like to share one reflection. The most difficult part of the Ombudsman's mandate is that he is unable to help anyone who addresses him. Often it can't, sometimes it's past the dates in which help was possible. Most often, however, it is because a person is affected by a problem that does not depend on one institution. Cooperation is needed, not just between the various spokesmen, because this cooperation is quite decent, but cooperation between all those who serve the citizens. We must climb over Poland, over industrial and political divisions, over personal wars. We need to learn how central authorities are supposed to work with local authorities, learn from each other, how to solve problems and how to shape thoughtful public policies. We must ensure that social trust is built, because without dialogue it is not possible. We need to remember that the determinant of our mission is to see the harm of another human being. Sometimes it may be seemingly small, but for this man it is the most important thing in the world. It is not enough to see, then we need to think about how to help and, most importantly, do what we have committed ourselves to. We need to work together, combine the energy of Members, Senators, all spokespersons, convince ministers, change the way the courts and prosecutors work, offices. Humility to citizens and diligence should bring together all those who serve Poland, who have a specific mandate to execute, and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland determines how we are to execute this mandate. I stress the words: truthfully and conscientiously. Tadeusz Mazowiecki in his historic speech of 24 August 1989 said - I quote: Citizens must have a sense of freedom, security and participation. Such a feeling can only be felt in a law-abiding state where every act of authority is based on law, and the way in which it is made, the content and interpretation of its rules correspond to the social sense of justice. Only a law that aims at a common good can enjoy respect and social authority. End of quote. These words are still valid, despite 27 years of systemic transformation. In some respects, due to the economic imbalance of citizens, even more recent than ever. The Ombudsman's observation shows how important this sense of freedom, security and participation is, but without the involvement of politicians, willingness to cooperate, hard organic work, trust and cooperation with civil society will not succeed. High Izbo! Thank you for listening and for being able to serve citizens for the next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I now ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u380	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Committee on Justice and Human Rights at its meeting on 12 September this year. She took note of the Ombudsman's activities in 2016 and the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights, print No 1635. During the deliberations of the committee, the Ombudsman provided information on his activities. There was an exhaustive discussion. At the beginning of this discussion, Members drew attention to the very wide range of issues and actions needed to be taken by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has been asked how to determine this, and chooses the priority actions and the cases in which he intervenes. The most frequently raised issue concerned matters of the judiciary, the possibility of the Ombudsman being present at court hearings, how many court trials were attended by representatives of the Ombudsman as observers, how many complaints had been received in 2016 by the Ombudsman on the activities of the courts and what is therefore the assessment of the Ombudsman on the functioning of the Polish judiciary. In response, the Ombudsman informed that, in various general speeches, he pointed out problems in the judiciary, such as judicial service, access to free legal advice, access to a lawyer, the problem of judicial experts. With regard to the presence of the Ombudsman as an observer at court proceedings, the Ombudsman pointed out his doubts as to the interpretation of the law in this respect. In his view, the Ombudsman must not violate the independence and independence of the courts, and such presence could enter the realm of the empire of the court. However, the Ombudsman has the possibility of bringing an appeal and is often taking advantage of this possibility. The Members asking questions on this matter did not fully agree with the Ombudsman's answer. The second issue concerning the judiciary was the problem of recording court cases. Members pointed to irregularities in recording, securing and storing recordings. Often in their interventions it turned out that the trials were not recorded at all, often for technical reasons. The Ombudsman was asked whether he had been complained about in similar cases as the Ombudsman's position on the subject. In this context, it was also discussed that judges would respond to Members' questions under the Article. 20 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The Members indicated that they had received a reply from the judges that the judge was not obliged to provide information to the Member, whereas in the Ombudsman's opinion the obligation to record is absolute and absolute and this is the responsibility of the President of the Court. This problem may be material for the Advocate's general speech. High Izbo! Another frequently raised issue was the recording of prosecutors' hearings, which is the assessment of the Ombudsman's activity, how many complaints were received in 2016, whether the Ombudsman had a formal appearance in this case. In reply to these questions, the Ombudsman informed that he regularly verified the actions of the prosecutor's office whether, on request and many individual cases had resulted in an effective intervention of the Ombudsman, e.g. in cases of insufficient exhaustion of the evidence initiative by the prosecutor and therefore premature termination of proceedings. An example was given of people recording the arrest of Igor Stachowiak, when the spokesperson went after the case file after the dismissal of the prosecutor's proceedings. The Ombudsman confirmed the opinion of Members that it would be useful to introduce an obligation to record prosecutors' hearings. During the discussion, the issue of proportionality of the penalty was raised. The question is how many complaints of this kind have been received by the Ombudsman. Examples were given: failure to make a donation, late entrepreneurs with fees, failure to comply with formalities with the relief received, which made it necessary to return all the relief with interest, in this case it was in 2 years' time. In response, the Ombudsman pointed out that the question of proportionality of sanctions was dealt with in the recent revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure carried out by the current government, where a number of procedures were put in place to make it possible to waive the penalty. The results of the revision should be awaited. The Ombudsman pointed out the problems he had experienced when intervening in civil proceedings in situations where the time limit was exceeded. Therefore, in the Ombudsman's view, it would be appropriate to introduce an emergency review institution which would enable the Ombudsman to address the Supreme Court even after the deadline. High Izbo! To sum up, I would like to say that the committee took note of the Ombudsman's activities in 2016 and of the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. In this report, I referred to these threads of the discussions that were most frequently discussed and those which stood in opposition to the Ombudsman's statement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u381	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Change. Krzysztof July.]] I understand you're speaking on behalf of the club. [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the pleasure of sharing with the High House a few reflections on the Ombudsman's information about his activities in 1996 and... [[2016]] ... 2016 and information about the state - yes, I still remember that age well - respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties in our country. I'll admit I listened very carefully to the voice of your spokesperson. Of course, the document, which has been prepared in the form of information and submitted to the High House, is quite extensive and really affects all issues, those which are related not only to constitutional but also to the ombudsman's statutory obligations. The subject matter there is quite widespread. It can be concluded that the Ombudsman took many interventions, all those legal instruments which are assigned to him by law. According to this information, there is nothing but success in this matter. It is good, although at the very beginning it is necessary to say that it is not quite so, because in fact this last resort of salvation for these ordinary citizens is not, however, the Ombudsman, but there are parliamentary offices. In the parliamentary offices There are also very often complaints about the Ombudsman's activities for this reason... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Ombudsman has the legal means he can use.]] Maybe the Member will let me finish, right? I'm asking you to listen, because in the case of a spokesperson...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u383	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u384	Not every case addressed to the Ombudsman must be dealt with by a citizen's complaint. It often happens that these allegations are not entirely justified, but citizens have rights and it turns out that in this matter many cases are also subject to regulation in Polish legislation. I am convinced that the Ombudsman, when he presented this report, spoke about those matters which are well-known. It was very difficult for the Ombudsman to say about these political issues today. There's a major problem. Is the Ombudsman really an advocate for all citizens in our country? This problem is seen as follows: today, in fact, the Ombudsman's work is seen rather as an activity moving towards various minorities, and the rights of the majority that are violated by the Ombudsman are treated as second-class cases. Some such cases can be mentioned here, e.g. issues concerning freedom of conscience and religion. It turns out that in a free country there is a very extensive cultural activity, also an activity related to copyright, where the fundamental freedom of the citizen concerning his religion is violated. That kind of freedom is being violated. Here it is difficult to see this activity of the Ombudsman. Usually these cases are treated, they remain on the sidelines, while as far as such rights concerning minorities are concerned, the Ombudsman always stands at the level of the task. There's another problem in international activity. A problem that is not very understandable. How can we assess the Ombudsman's activities related to the issue of supporting the document issued by the United Nations Human Rights Committee, which claims that fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are being violated in Poland. I would like you to be able to indicate what rights and freedoms of citizens are being violated in Poland by the Republic of Poland. [[He pointed it out.]] These are things that require some explanation and you can't get over them to order. [[You can't.]] These matters should be thoroughly explained. Another matter which, in some sense, raises serious doubts, Mr. Spokesman today spoke about conscience, about dignity, that is the thing that concerns a matter related to... Unfortunately, there was such a statement, the Ombudsman apologized for it, but the milk spilled - the Polish people were burdened by the Ombudsman with an accessory to the Holocaust crime. These are things that should not have happened, and I am convinced that this type of action certainly does not mean that citizens can have confidence in the constitutional authorities of the state. I would also like to draw attention to those issues which you have not spoken about today. I don't want to argue with the Ombudsman, I'm trying to talk about what the Ombudsman didn't say today. We are aware that many people have been harmed by many so-called scandals. The third Polish Republic, to which the rulers turned a blind eye. This is a big deal. Amber Gold, this is a reprivatization thing. [[Igor Stachowiak.]] The question is, where's the spokesperson? I'll tell you about Igor Stachowiak right away, if that's what you want. Where is the ombudsman for people who have been victimized by the Amber Gold scandal? This incident took place a few years ago, and they're still injured today. Unfortunately, it was only necessary for the committee of inquiry to continue its work. From what is to be expected from the results of the committee of inquiry itself, we will not be able to secure all the claims that citizens will be demanding in this case, already demanding, against the Polish justice system. [[What about the SKOKs?]] The case of reprivatization - not only in Warsaw, but also in other big cities, which was actually treated by the Ombudsman with a wink of eye. It was only necessary to set up an appropriate review committee, which comes up with all these rights, which restores ownership to local governments. I am convinced that there will be good results when it comes to making it possible to come out of this scandal, in which the Polish state was involved, with a face. A case which, in my opinion, is a serious matter and in some sense results in the fact that the Ombudsman is seen here as the main actor of many political games that take place in Poland... [[You don't need a spokesperson.]] In my opinion, in the course of the legislative process, i.e. in the course of the political debate, the presentation of positions, as it should be, as it should not be, is a thing which also places a shadow on the Ombudsman's activities. I believe that this should be done in this way: within the limits of the law in force, the Ombudsman should be firm in defending rights and freedoms where those rights are at stake. [[Igor Stachowiak.]] As with the mentioned Igor Stachowiak. And the question is, where was the Ombudsman... [[Time's running out.]] ...when even worse events took place at the police stations in Legionów, Kalisz, Lublin? [[That's where a man died. There's nothing worse.]] And as for the situation of the person mentioned here and the situation at the station that took place in Wroclaw, for the Polish state, there has been a recent opinion of experts that it did not necessarily have to be so... [[Did you see the movie?]] ...that as a result of police services, they are dead. Igor Stachowiak died. There's an expert opinion... [[Your experts.]] ...and I'm convinced that this case will be thoroughly clarified before the justice system, and I want to [[♪ The bell ♪]] declare - as Minister Błaszczak said in this House - that the Polish government is in favour of clarifying this issue and will do everything to make this happen, which is the opposite of what happened in 2015... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Sure, that's why he has a job in the Military Gendarmery.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u385	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u386	I also want to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u387	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u388	...on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that the parliamentary club accepts this information from the Ombudsman hoping that many things that you have not said today, and which are certainly severe for ordinary people, will be taken up in the near future. And I would also like you to wish that this document, which will certainly be prepared for its activities in 2017, is a more slim document, especially since today the Government of Law and Justice creates such conditions to improve the situation of ordinary people, and on this occasion also... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Madam Marshal, time.]] ...causing their right to enjoy the benefits...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u389	Mr. President, I'm very...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u390	...the Polish state will be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u391	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! ..) memorials of bitter experiences from the time when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our Homeland, wishing to guarantee civil rights forever, and the work of public institutions to ensure integrity and efficiency, in the sense of responsibility before God or before our conscience, we establish the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo, the creators of the Constitution, writing it 20 years ago, were sure that bitter experiences would never return, and civil rights would be guaranteed forever. This House and this majority are constantly proving that it is and can be different. Two years ago, Dr. Adam Bodnar began his five-year term - a five-year term of office of the Ombudsman. He was an unusual candidate, because he was a citizen, proposed by NGOs themselves. He built support for his candidacy on the basis of a specific programme and despite attempts to stick it to such and other patches from the very beginning convinced Parliament to its own person and to its vision of action. It proves that you can get an important position without issuing political notes. Mr. Spokesman probably didn't think he would be in office at such an extreme time when, for the first time since his freedom was regained, power was not only questioning constitutional values, destroying the three divisions of power, but also brutally pushing, restricting citizens' rights, fighting against all independent institutions. He did not suppose that he would perform his office at a time when the authorities - the media that he owns, the disgusting propaganda - were pissing on people, sorting them out, violating privacy, stalking and surveillance, arbitraryly acting, introducing hate speech into the language, affirming in public space, public ceremonies, nationalists with flags of contempt, those who, on 15 August under police protection, marching through Warsaw, shouted towards Polish women with white roses, wonderful citizens, slogan: Death to enemies of their homeland! He did not suppose that he would perform his office when foreigners on Polish streets were so often humiliated, challenged and beaten. Ukrainian in Lublin, Ethiopian in Warsaw, Chechenka in Warsaw, Egyptian in Krakow - this is the balance sheet of the last 2 weeks. The Ombudsman met with each and every one of them. The number of hate crimes is growing at an alarming rate. In 2016, there were 1314 of them. Dr. Adam Bodnar, as the Ombudsman of civil rights, is not only a defender of freedom and human rights and of the citizen, but is also a guardian of the Constitution when others consciously resign. Dr. Adam Bodnar is consistently implementing his program. No one has ever noticed the situation of homeless people in our country before, like the doctor. It adheres closely to the framework set by the Constitution and the legislator. He protects the dignity of his position. Builds public authority and civic confidence in the office. It's confirmed by 52,000. Polish and Polish applications addressed to the Ombudsman in 2016 and very high confidence in public opinion polls. The fundamental issues, such as the independence of courts, the independence of judges, the rule of law, are called upon, but most importantly, Dr. Adam Bodnar is an advocate of ordinary people, he is an advocate of victims, weaker, excluded, left to himself, citizens and citizens whose rights are violated in Poland. Anyone and any person may request the Ombudsman's assistance without any mode, without formal requirements, without charge. It shall exercise its office in an impartial and competent manner, as provided for in the Constitution. In his business he is independent, independent of other state bodies, he is even a model, independent spokesman. It engages in dialogue with the authorities, directs dozens of speeches inspired by proposals and complaints from citizens. The Ombudsman takes action in favour of the elderly, the disabled, the homeless, Alzheimer's disease patients, patients in psychiatric institutions, prisoners and in prisons. He dealt with very different matters such as protection of family rights, freedom of assembly, children's rights in children's homes, tenants' rights, painless births, sexual harassment of women in the army, access to health services, and even the case of a fan who has been held in custody for too long. It addresses issues that are completely unnoticed by the current authorities, such as equal treatment, discrimination based on sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or religion, discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. He intervenes in attacks against foreigners, reminds us of the rights of refugees. He is a brave defender of independence. The Constitutional Tribunal. Recently, he put forward proposals for judicial reform to the President. The Ombudsman mentioned three groups of complaints that affect his office. They concern the length of proceedings in the courtroom and the justice of judgments. This isn't about stealing a flash drive, pants or sausage, it's not fake news about a court order in Świdnica. The Ombudsman presents real challenges, does not propose, like the government, a staff tsunami. Today, in black and white, you can see how the Minister of Justice - the politician - decides on the positions of presidents and vice-presidents of the general courts. The Ombudsman talks about everything in a factual, conceptual, primal, but without confrontation. Dr. Adam Bodnar first examines situations, whether individual or groups of citizens, discusses them in expert committees and then proposes concrete solutions. In 2016, he addressed 441 issues. High Izbo! The Ombudsman has developed an authorial manner of office. Every month he goes to Poland, meets with NGOs, but also with anyone who needs help. In cooperation with the local authorities, he opened points of acceptance of applications to the Ombudsman. These are not image visits. These include reports, speeches to the authorities, proposals for concrete changes to the law, interventions in individual cases. High Izbo! The Ombudsman's activities contrast completely with the passiveness of the government's representative for civil society and equal treatment. This proxy is busy building a government control system for NGOs and their sources of funding. This system is called the Institute of Freedom, and should be called the Institute of Subjugation and Dependencies. In December 2016, the Ombudsman was deprived of the instruments that were always available to the next Ombudsman. It is about taking part in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. After all, there is no point in appealing to a tribunal which has become a dummies with judges understudyes, with a pretend-president, with a supposed-vice president, to a tribunal whose permanent guests are members of the governing party and the Minister for Special Services. High Izbo! The Ombudsman's annual information about his activity and the state of compliance with freedom and human rights is always an opportunity to sum up. Advocate Dr. Adam Bodnar, his deputy, Dr. Sylwia Spurek, Stanisław Trociuk, Krzysztof Olkowicz, co-workers from the office performed their duties to the state and citizens exemplaryly in 2016: with passion, commitment, professionally. Thank you very much for that. Dr. Adam Bodnar is every day spokesperson for each and every one of us. He's not quiet, he's not a scary advocate, he's a spokesperson for courage and responsibility. He's the spokesperson for our rights and our affairs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's the right man in the right place. When he is unjustly attacked, when there are windy charges, this is the moment when citizens and citizens should stand up for their spokesperson. Since Dr. Adam Bodnar is so stubborn and comprehensively defending our rights, we should defend him and, most importantly, his fantastic activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u393	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! In the beginning, Mr. Spokesperson, I would like to thank you for an instant response on the electoral system in Poland, which I just received. I haven't had a chance to analyze her thoroughly yet, but thank you for your answer. I address the Ombudsman and the PO Member. However, I have the impression that we live in two different Polands. You know, I'm alive, too. I've been setting up organizations, I've been in non-governmental organizations that have been fighting lawlessness in courts for 20 years. There's one thing I can't agree with, I mean. with this great ombudsman activity. Well, I'm not accusing you, and I'm not even going to try to accuse you of lack of diligence, because he is indeed one of the most hardworking advocates. This is true, but I maintain my position with Mr Sanocki of the Justice Committee that, unfortunately, it is impossible to settle everything in all sectors and to duplicate certain things, because then all the institutions of the state should be duplicated. It'd be bad anyway, 'cause you'd still have to build another one. One thing that doesn't convince me of your spokesperson's work, and your spokesperson knows it, because we don't know each other from now on... I myself am the author of many complaints to the Ombudsman, for many years to Kochanowski's spokesperson, various further spokespersons. I didn't get any positive judgment from the spokesperson, nor did Mr Bodnar. That's not enough. I'm not the only one who didn't get it. Neither did the people we sent to the spokesperson who we encouraged to refer to your spokesperson. The number of complaints brought by the Ombudsman's report is indeed impressive, with the fact that the Ombudsman's office's reply system can be divided into three types in case of complaints. As far as court cases are concerned, in advance, it's, in general, too early. If there's a cassation case, then we'll look into it. Now that there's a cassation case, it's usually not suitable for a cassation or even a statute of limitations. Unfortunately, citizens are not satisfied with such answers, Mr. Spokesman. What am I missing in this report? Well, I'm missing an evaluation of the prosecution's activities in 2016. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: May reduce the budget.]] I beg your pardon, Member? [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It can reduce the budget, as you have proposed.]] Relax, Member. If you're gonna talk, you're gonna tell me. Let's respect your spokesperson and the time of all of us. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You proposed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u395	Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u396	Mr. Spokesman, it's been a year and a half since the new D.A.'s Office Act. Can I go on, Mr. Spokesman? I'm asking you how you judge her. I do not know if the Ombudsman's office, you know of such facts, examples that you have already mentioned. I'll tell you, too. Well, prosecutors often withdraw prosecutions at the moment, using this six-month period when they can withdraw. And it turns out that they've been holding files for six months, and in the last few days, for a good cause, they're putting together some... Let me give you a concrete example. In Bielsk in the last three days 60 witnesses have been interviewed in four different police stations. The questions were fixed in advance. Of course, the D.A. didn't bother. Then it was directed to fit within a six-month time limit on the last day of the indictment in court. But this indictment was incomplete because it wasn't completed, so the D.A. sent police officers and his staff from the D.A.'s office the other day, who put them in the file and stamped the pages. Normally, they faked the file. The D.A. says she doesn't have to issue a second order to close an investigation. A citizen shall not be entitled to submit applications. That doesn't appear, at least in my opinion, to the Code of Criminal Procedure. What's worse, and that's how you defended those judges, those judges say everything's okay. But one thing they don't know is that this bill expired on August 5th. We have qualified judges, prosecutors and court presidents. Mr. Spokesman, I will not forgive you for one thing - I can honestly say that I have even signed an appeal today - that you, as an ombudsman, are defending judges. You're not a spokesperson for the rights of judges. You're a spokesperson for civil rights. You should take care of the right to a fair trial. You should also respond to the fact that the judges are either active or active in the protests, because at this point the judges, those judges who took part, are lining up on one side. The judge must not be on either side or on the other side. And you should make sure they're neutral. Don't drag them into such a fight because trust is being undermined. Second thing. For many years, I have encouraged all the other spokespersons, including you, to take part in court proceedings. At the committee meeting, you replied that it would be an imposition of pressure on the independence of the judge. Mr. Spokesman, I appreciate you too much for me to believe that you've responded seriously. If the judge is unable to be immune to a civil rights officer's visit to a courtroom, that means he's not fit for trial. He'll never be independent. So this is a completely missed argument. On the other hand, I will tell you from experience that the participation of NGOs, people or families in the courtroom as viewers completely changes the way the court works. The court behaves differently, the court protocol differently and the courtroom looks quite different. These people sometimes - those who come to us, to offices, to all countries certainly come to you, and you know how many complaints you have about the activities of courts - expect even moral support. I understand that you have limitations in court proceedings, that it's only after your consent has been completed, but no one's stopping you from sending an employee from the field office for a court hearing. Nor have I heard your position on limiting the transparency of the sittings now, in the new Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll be honest with you that I fought for seven years until I led the Supreme Court to a resolution of seven members that the court's sittings were public. The new code took it from us again. Yeah, it's very limited. So, Mr. Spokesman, with all due respect for your work, it's up to you, unfortunately, 90%. The problems of all Polish citizens, various, even those disabled, homeless, end in courts, because it is either an eviction or an invalid group, ends in either a criminal trial or a civil trial. This is the last instance and she needs the most... You know how I hear your words when you have so many complaints against the courts for so many years, the previous spokespersons are the same, and all of a sudden we start defending the judges and we want to icing the law on the courts... Where she was wrong, where she was wrong, where she was wrong, we disagreed with her, and here she is on her way, but we will not agree to icing these laws further. I've always invited you and I'm still inviting you to work with these little field organizations that don't have millions of grants that we talked about here today, how bad it is, because you're gonna take it, and you're gonna turn it one way. I don't quite agree with that, I'll tell you because I ran an association of 17 years, I didn't get the dollars from the Treasury, we kept up with the contributions, and I got 1% from NGOs. Which is what anybody wanted, and we kept up perfectly. We've got all the sound equipment, the recording equipment, everything we've got from these little contributions. So you can do whatever you want. On the other hand, if you want jobs, jobs, jobs for friends, through various programs that... They looked like that, that once we turned to the program, we got the answer that we hadn't had enough money so far, so we wouldn't be able to manage so much money, that was the argument when it came to refusing in the competition. So, in conclusion, Mr. Spokesman, I appreciate what you're doing to make things clear, but I won't agree - and here I'm very critical - that you're involved in the defense of the judges, knowing that you have information about what's going on in the courts, because you have it, and that you're not still thinking about it, because this is not the first time we're asking you not to include the Ombudsman's office, even on these visits. Mr. Spokesman, as you're doing these farm visits, let's call them, if they were in a week, go to a few courtrooms, not even with a complaint. Life is about how you see the trial and you [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's sitting on it, and you know how to judge her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u397	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u398	Dear Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Poselski Club, to present my position on the information submitted on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2016 and on the observance of human and citizen rights and freedoms. According to Art. 80 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland shall have the right to appeal to the Ombudsman, in accordance with the principles laid down in the Act, for assistance in the protection of his or her freedoms or rights infringed by public authorities. The application addressed to the Ombudsman shall be free of charge and shall not require a specific form. The broad grounds for action, the lack of formal requirements and fees make numerous requests to the Ombudsman. 2016 was the first full year of Dr. Adam Bodnar's office as ombudsman, and it should be admitted that it was a year very well worked by your ombudsman. In the past year, more than 52.5 thousand were sent to the Ombudsman's office. conclusions. Members of the European Parliament certainly agree with me that this number is impressive. Let us add to this the acceptance by the Ombudsman's staff of nearly 5200 people and the provision of almost 36 800 telephone calls as part of a free hotline. And that's all with the ombudsman's budget cut by the PiS government for the current year. It is important to appreciate how close the Ombudsman is to people. Mr. Adam Bodnar's work was not limited to activities from behind a desk in Warsaw. Last year he visited 49 towns in our country. While operating throughout the country, the Ombudsman helped people who were particularly vulnerable to exclusion. It was supported by disabled people, victims of domestic violence, ethnic and religious minorities, members of the LGBT community, but also close to the current power football fans. An example is the involvement in the case of a man who spent 40 months in a long-term detention period. Let us also not forget that the ombudsman for the disadvantaged tenants has done more than the current power. In this respect, the Ombudsman's particularly high involvement in the case of people who have social premises and residents of immovable property subject to reprivatisation was noted. At the same time, he also did not forget the rights of property owners. The Ombudsman, using the authority of his position, sought to catch up on the long-term arrears of the legal regulation of reprivatisation. The Ombudsman acted not only at local level but also at central level. He is an active participant in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The Ombudsman's involvement in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal was further increased after the entry into force of the provisions of the Act which allows the Ombudsman to report his participation in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal in any case, except, of course, proceedings initiated by means of preventive review of the laws. In 2016, the Ombudsman addressed 24 applications to the Constitutional Tribunal using his own capacity to proceed to 12 proceedings initiated by a constitutional complaint, as well as 13 proceedings initiated by a legal question and six proceedings initiated by other entities. Unfortunately, further amendments to the laws governing proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal have led to the gradual paralysis of that body. As a result, most of the proposals, as well as the cases to which the Ombudsman has joined, remain unresolved. The Ombudsman also had to defend the judges of the general courts. The judges, Mr Jachnik, are probably not here, they are also citizens of the Republic of Poland, who, in the event of violations of their rights, have the right to benefit from the help of the Ombudsman. Let us remember that Minister Ziobro wanted to have full freedom to delegate judges to other courts, thereby violating the principle of independence, and deliberately delayed and delayed the seat of judges. There were also doubts about changes in the prosecution's office. It is worrying that the actions of the Minister of Justice have so often forced the Ombudsman to act. High Izbo! It is also alarming that in the 21st century, the Ombudsman had to deal with the issue of torture in one of the police stations. What country do we live in if the principle of non-violence during interrogations is not obvious? Today we know that the Minister of the Interior has been unable for a year to draw consequences for the officers who abused Igor Stachowiak. We have also heard the Deputy Minister of Justice publicly approving the use of torture. We remain happy that the Ombudsman is opposed to such attitudes. In these situations, the weight of the Ombudsman's office is clearly visible. It is undoubtedly pleased that the Ombudsman was involved in international activities, including the work of institutions monitoring the rule of law in Poland, or that he supported other NGOs and his counterparts from other countries. Dr. Adam Bodnar's actions were supported by international circles, including many valued institutions, such as: The Council of Europe or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The proper taking of the Ombudsman's position requires not only protecting against the temptations of power, but also exerting pressure on the justice system to act in the spirit of law and with a view to citizens. Dr. Adam Bodnar, with a view to harmonising judicial case law and ensuring equality against the law, asked three legal questions last year to be examined by the Supreme Administrative Court, one legal question to the Supreme Court, and also brought 72 cassations and cassation actions against final judgments of the general courts in individual cases. Despite the impressive work of the Ombudsman, Dr. Adam Bodnar, some falsely accuse him of focusing solely on media matters. I consider this to be manipulation and misunderstanding of the role of ombudsman. We must remember that its function is not only to intervene after the fact, but also to prevent. This task is carried out, among others. through media that enable him to inform citizens of his actions and to bring them closer to their rights. It also puts pressure on authorities that, contrary to human rights, could act against society. This is a particularly important role today when public media have stopped serving citizens and have become a government propaganda tube. In addition to the use of classical media, the Ombudsman clearly indicated his presence on the Internet. This proves his adjustment to modern realities and his willingness to meet new requirements. Therefore, I am not surprised by the Ombudsman's involvement in the fight against hate speech. At the same time, thanks to his tone and respect for other statements, he has become an excellent ambassador for cultural discussion. The Ombudsman and his deputies, the Ombudsman's staff, have achieved so much despite a drastic reduction in their budget. This proves that civil rights defenders will protect them even if they are deprived of money. However, the question should be asked why the government is imposing additional obstacles on them. Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy! Staff of the Ombudsman's Office! Members of today appreciate your work for the benefit of citizens. We see one of the last citizens' rights in Poland in you, and please be sure that you and your spokesperson can count on our support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was honored to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club our position on information about the Ombudsman's activities in 2016. But before I go into detail, I would like to begin by thanking the Ombudsman for the constant efforts he has made to stabilise the legal and institutional order in our country, unfortunately in the last weeks and months of the various types of actions that have affected the institutional order in a rather important way. It is impossible to underestimate, not commend the activity of your spokesperson, colleagues and office over the past year and not thank you for it. Many of these data were quoted, I will not repeat myself, but these figures are probably the most objective and accurate evidence that there was no lack of effort, no lack of work, no lack of activity in your work last year. Dr. Adam Bodnar's spokesperson also actively benefited from his prerogatives. In 24 cases, the Ombudsman addressed the applications to the Constitutional Court on his own and in 12 cases he joined the constitutional complaints already initiated and 13 legal questions of the Tribunal to the Constitutional Tribunal. It is only a pity that these were questions addressed to the paralyzed constitutional crisis of the tribunal, but this is no longer a matter of your Ombudsman. In conclusion, the Ombudsman's work cannot be forgotten about educational activities and extensive international cooperation undertaken by the Ombudsman's office in Poland. It is important that access to the Ombudsman is as broad as possible. Today, apart from the office in Warsaw, the Ombudsman also has field agents in Wrocław, Gdansk and Katowice, as well as complaint reception points in Bydgoszcz, Słupsk, Częstochowa, Kielce, Lublin and Szczecin. Dr. Adam Bodnar's idea of creating a new field office in Bialystok is to be considered worthy of our attention and support. The report that the High House is discussing today shows how much further to do, how much to improve in the field of human rights protection in our country. The right to the judicial protection of individual freedoms and rights, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, the freedom of expression and the right to information, the rights of persons with disabilities, the protection of the family, the right to work and social security - in all these areas Poland has many problems, which you point out to the Ombudsman in your summary, and this is also worth noting. A year ago, when referring to the Ombudsman's 2015 information, I devoted part of my speech to the comments that you had made at the time regarding the quality of the law in our country. At the time, we agreed that ambiguous, vague and unclear, and sometimes mutually exclusive legislation, in one word: defective legislation, poses a serious threat to the constitutional rights and freedoms of the citizen. High Izbo, what can be said in this area after 2016, after the night voting experience in the column room, the year of the projects being carried out faster without public consultation, projects subject to the current political need or the continuing paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal and the year of ignoring any recommendations and opinions of the institutions monitoring compliance with democratic standards? Unfortunately, it's getting worse. And Mr. Spokesman -- and here I look to you with appreciation -- he calls these things by name, and that is something to be appreciated. There is no doubt that the current governments, the decisions of the current government, are full of work for the institutions called to sound the alarm. And I'm not saying it so that it's clear, not with any satisfaction. In this situation, they are not surprised at the attacks on the right side of the political scene that are supposed to be on your spokesperson, including the call for his dismissal. Some people just hurt because someone looks at their hands and raises uncomfortable problems. High Izbo! The Ombudsman's institution is an important element of the democratic rule of law. The role of this institution is special in a country such as ours, where the government and the governing party are still looking for opportunities to expand their competences at the expense of citizens, local governments and organisations created and working for citizens. Thanking the Ombudsman for his service, he will uphold our freedoms in 2016, I would like to wish that you do not run out of this relentlessness or the courage you have shown in defending our rights and freedoms until the end of your term of office. At the end of my speech, I would also like to draw the attention of the High House to one thing. I think Dr. Adam Bodnar's spokesperson is also an excellent example of a person who promotes something such as the continuity of institutions in taking action. Whether as regards areas concerning matters within Poland or as regards the continuation of beautiful projects of predecessors, we can have proof of a model continuation of such activities. This is unfortunately today - again with great regret - an isolated situation and an isolated example, but perhaps it will be better in the future. Doctor, I would also like, on behalf of my club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, to declare our support for all the initiatives that you are about to undertake to protect the rights, civil liberties, to protect all the institutions on which your hand is raised. And it will be lifted up, because there is no indication that this raised hand will not be lifted. We're willing to support, cooperate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u401	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And I invite Mr Michał Kaminski, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Dear Members, Of course, the Union of European Democrats will vote in favour of your report, because we appreciate your work very highly and we appreciate this specific report very highly and, after all, today's debate is taking place on it, in a formal sense. We will do this with the awareness, whose certainty gives us your activity, that you would be a problem for every authority, whether it be a leftist or a right-wing political formation in Poland. The Lord would certainly look at the hands of every authority with equal determination, although probably different parties in various matters need to look at these hands more. However, I would like to say that it has come to you to hold this important office for Poles in very difficult times. In times where in every normal country the Ombudsman has something to do, because in every country, even the most democratic ones, there are people who, for various reasons, do not respect civil rights. However, most of these problems concern the mid- and lower levels of power, relate to certain processes, certain structures that can be changed. Today Poland is in a situation where the wrong example comes from above. I mean not only concrete legislative changes that call for vengeance to heaven, an assassination of courts, an assassination of the media, but also the political language that is heard in Poland, a political philosophy that prevails in Poland. For if the political opponent in this House is not a man of political margin called a citizen of the second kind, if the political opponent by the leader of the political party who rules in Poland is called a scumbag, then surely something is happening in our country, which puts us not only further away from the mainstream of Europe or the European Union, but also from the mainstream of Western civilization. And no wonder that today in Poland there are growing phenomena that occur in the most liberal and most democratic countries of the West, such as the language of hatred, violence against minorities. However, in Poland more and more people are aware that this language, and even this violence, has a silent consent on the highest mountain, that the atmosphere that prevails in Poland gives consent to this type of behavior. The quintessence of this was those horrible pictures in which the march of people who wanted to honor the anniversary of Adolf Hitler's birthday was covered by police against ordinary citizens, when against such bandits around the world, ordinary citizens are protected, not the other way around. This shows the whole trap of the so-called. Symmetrism. Symmetry can be allowed in a normal democratic country, but symmetry is not allowed. And this is illustrated very well by an example of two Polish left-wing poets, one of whom wrote a few years before the war: throw a rifle, a bayonet about the pavement, because he was a pacifist and appealed to all people so that there would be no war. Beautiful appeal and very moral: throw a rifle, bayonet on the pavement. But the second Polish left-wing poet, when the war broke out, wrote: "Bagnete for weapons." When they come to set fire to the house, there's no room for symmetry, because when they come to set fire to the house, it's just this house burns down at some point and needs to be extinguished. Fire. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman, for not falling into a trap that would give the majority of today a pretext for a real attack on you. You're meeting with a lot of unpleasantness, with a lot of malice, but it seems that today they don't want to raise their hands on your institution and on you, because you're doing it in a truly amazingly effective way for me. Toned language, factual argument, but also openness to people that, in my opinion, are often difficult to be open. Finally, I would like to thank you for the very important aspect of your activity in the last year - for defending the officers of the Polish state, people who risked their lives, their health and their family life too in the fight to make us feel safer - our police officers, our services, who have this so-called. The debubecism bill is brutally stabbed. This shows that power, which refers to noble ideals - increasingly in the case of this power lying in the mud - actually ends in harm to ordinary people. Today this applies to officials of the Polish state, tomorrow - hopefully not - it will apply to everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Spokesman, thank you for defending civil rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u403	Thank you very much. And I would also like to ask Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Ombudsperson, this debate with you today as ombudsman should simply not be. A man who is the author of words about the fact that Poles are accomplices of the Holocaust should have enough shame and honor to resign immediately. This is more to be discussed by Mr Klaviter, but the basic honesty, the elementary moral considerations that should stand behind the man who is the ombudsman, should prompt you to resign immediately after these words. But that's not the only reason why you shouldn't be here today as an ombudsman. This is not the only reason why I started the initiative to collect signatures under this function, because luckily the Polish Sejm has the opportunity, fortunately the Polish Sejm may unworthy and contrary to the existing law, which has the function of ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is above all because Adam Bodnar, in his role, has become an advocate of cultural Marxism, has become an advocate of ideology, a sick ideology that reigns today in Western Europe, which today conquers Western Europe and which unfortunately also wants to settle in Poland, wants to take root. Poland is also the subject of its aggression. Of course, you mentioned hundreds of thousands of ordinary citizens in your report. One might say this: it is primarily the case of the Ombudsman, the small affairs of the citizens - small, larger - those that are very often concerned with problems with offices, problems with the application of the law. Of course, this is the overwhelming majority of cases that the Ombudsman deals with. This has been the case so far, and so is your term of office. There's no special disgrace in it, nor is there any special merit in it for you. This is the layer of your responsibilities, and it's good that you're doing them with a powerful institution to do it, a camera to do it. In this sense, you're not doing anything unusual. On the other hand, what you really differ from your predecessors is a deep ideological commitment - not only political, but a commitment against the law in force in Poland, against the constitutional provisions, which, for example. defines marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman. For example, you intervened in civil proceedings before civil status offices in order to issue certificates for single-sex couples in connection with some unions that they contained outside Poland. In this way, the ombudsman strikes the existing, how imperfect, but yet valid constitution. And even if that's why he should be called off. Mr. Adam Bodnar supports a court-favoured environment of his own. This was when the district court ruling in Toruń was challenged. You gave support to LGBT activists under sentence to apologize to Dr. Paul Cameron. Yes, Paul Cameron finally won in front of Polish courts - it was about defaming him, talking by LGBT activists so-called - and it was despite your unilateral, ideological intervention. You, as the Ombudsman, speak against the freedom of contract and economic freedom and take such a position. This is the way to interpret what was happening in Łódź, what was happening in the so-called. the issue of a printer in Łódź who refused to print flyers of the homosexual lobby or prohomosexual organizations. You are violating the freedom of the world view of entrepreneurs or simply citizens with these interventions. Finally, your interventions, your statements violate freedom of religion. And what's that about? Not in the case of Catholics, but in the case concerning the right of Jews in Poland to exhibit religious symbols. You specifically quoted the view of the European Court of Human Rights and attacked the freedom of religion, suggesting that the religious symbol should be worn discreetly or hidden in the course of duty. This was not the case for a Catholic, but unfortunately a minority member who is supposed to be in your special care. The last of these examples of ideological commitment, because here you can talk about violating the right of parents to raise their children, are of course those famous freaks with the deubecism bill, where they again occupy [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Very ideological and unambiguous position in the political dispute. That's why you should be dismissed from your duties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u405	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Right of the Republic of Poland, I would like to read the appeal of the Right of the Republic to the Sejm to appeal Adam Bodnar from the role of Ombudsman. 20 June 2017 Adam Bodnar, ombudsman of civil rights, on TVP Info, said: We must remember that many nations participated in the implementation of the Holocaust, including the Polish people. In this statement, the Ombudsman embezzled his vows before the Polish Parliament. Before joining his duties, Adam Bodnar made the following promise: I pledge that I will fulfil my duties impartially, with the utmost conscientiousness that I will uphold the dignity of my position and keep my secret legally protected. The statement by the ombudsman on TVP drastically violates the dignity of the office in office. So much is said about the Polish concentration camps, there is a huge action in this direction, so that everyone will understand that it was the Germans who were the murdering party, the main party, that so to speak, the accomplice... the perpetrator of the Holocaust, and in this case through an excellent high-ranking state official we are taking a sharp blow here ourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u407	Thank you very much, sir. Eight people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask a question. Would any of you like to complete this list? I can't see. So I close the list. Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club begins. Question time - 1 minute. Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I have a few questions. I hope I can get through this one minute. First question. Mr. Spokesman, you have submitted a report to the UN Human Rights Committee on measures taken by Poland. In this report you describe in such a way your opinion on Poland and on human rights standards in Poland. I have this question: Why have you kept quiet in this report important and positive legislative changes, both from the times of the Platform's governments and from the times of our governments, such as this ban on taking the child away from parents because of poverty? Why didn't you take it into account? Another question. I know you've been intervening in the matter of praying in a kindergarten in Schederzyk. Please zoom in on the content of your intervention. Question: "Do you agree with the statement that children in school or kindergarten have the right to pray on the basis of the Polish constitution?" Next question. In his speech to the Minister of Health, also last year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You described that you wanted children from the age of 15 to be able to use the help of a gynecologist without the consent of their parents, even without their parents knowing. Question: "Do you mean that these children should have access to contraception and abortion without the knowledge of legal guardians?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u409	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! I tried to get through this publication, the Ombudsman's information for 2016. I would particularly like to address you here about this statement you made here before the Sejm. Indeed, in my opinion, this statement was extremely political. It was not the Ombudsman's information about his actions on behalf of the citizens. It was extremely political information. I am also particularly interested in the situation of people with disabilities. You've been very empathetic to this situation of people with disabilities. On this thousandth page, on the thousands of pages that we have here, I have ahead of me, there are seven pages for people with disabilities, and that you sent one request to the government's representative for people with disabilities. I would ask you to present other documents, other general actions in this direction, so that the fate of these people may be better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u411	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first like to thank and congratulate the Ombudsman and his entire office for a truly impressive achievement last year. I would also like to say that the Ombudsman is then an effective spokesman when he defends those rights which are particularly at risk, namely the rights of the weaker, disabled, the disadvantaged, the rights of the various minorities. Secondly, it must also defend civil rights against officials, because it is the civil servants who often violate these rights by negligence, by anesthesia, by misapplication of the law or by failure to apply it at all. On the other hand, I have one general question about improving cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Sejm, because many of your speeches are addressed to the legislator, whether it concerns changes to some legislation or whether it is the introduction of completely new legislation. Shouldn't it be for a better assessment of whether the Sejm is fulfilling all these requests and demands, to make such statistics [[♪ The bell ♪]] from your annual speeches to the Sejm, how many of these cases have been rejected, how many have been dealt with, how many are in progress, so that year after year we can see whether the Sejm is trying to solve these cases that you are telling us, systemic cases, legal cases or not. Perhaps this would also help us assess our own work and increase the effectiveness of your observation, your conclusions to the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I would like to ask: Have you received complaints from your parents about unequal, discriminatory treatment of institutions' representatives in family courts in matters of their children or in matters of their parental rights, and if so, what action have you taken and with what effect? We were informed about this problem by NGOs at the meetings of the Sub-Committee on Family Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u415	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have a short question because I have some inaccuracies. Mr Szczerba said that you filed 20 cassation complaints this year in 2016. I read in the report that you filed 72 cassations and cassation complaints to the general courts and 17 to the NSA. So that would be a much larger amount. But I have a question. I'm talking about a case like this. How many of these complaints, if you were able to indicate which complaints were identified in 2016, i.e. those you filed, even in 2015, what number of complaints were those that were positive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u417	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! For many years I have been observing actions and previous ombudsman rights, and now and I have such mixed feelings, whether they, as they have in their name, represent and defend civil rights, or the affairs of parties who choose them there. I have a question: How does the Ombudsman assess the functioning of the Law on Free Legal Assistance so far? Do you think this works well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u419	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u420	Mrs. Marshalkini! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! The role of the Ombudsman is to protect citizens, especially the weaker ones, those who do not have access to expensive lawyers, those who do not know their rights or who do not know how to defend them. And so the role of the spokesperson is to defend minorities, defend sexual minorities, defend the disabled, defend those who have different skin colors or there are other creeds. The role of the spokesman is to say that teenagers have the right to go to a gynecologist, a urologist, because they have the right to have sex at the age of 16, so they can also use the help of a doctor without parental consent. It is the right of all of us to ask the Ombudsman to defend these weakest citizens. Whether it's straight marriages or homosexual relationships should have the same rights in Poland. Women must have the right to decide their lives and their health regardless of the ideology of the ruling party. Mr. Spokesman! On the issue of women's rights, I have a question: How is implementation of the anti-violence convention and its provisions in Polish law going?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u421	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no doubt that the statements of the right-wing Members should, unfortunately, be treated simply as an attack on one of the last independent parties of the governing institution. I have a question: Is it because of this attack on the ombudsman, who is perfectly capable of fulfilling his duties, to defend free and independent courts? Is this the reason for the attack the defence of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has just defended the rights and freedoms of citizens enshrined in the Constitution? How about defending the rights of people with disabilities? What's bothering you? That he's the protector of the weak, the injured? That he is the defender of those who are in an unequal situation against a strong state seeking more and more authoritative governments? Or would you prefer that the Ombudsman, like one of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, simply be a representative of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u423	I ask that the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, speak, of course, about the questions that have just been asked to the Ombudsman. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u424	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, Thank you very much for your questions and comments. I would like to stress that I take all the comments and signals that come to me from Members, also from the senators very seriously. I'm sure you have experienced on a case-by-case basis that I often also try, if I get specific signals, to respond in writing, to make individual complaints. I agree that complaints about the Ombudsman's activities may arise in the parliamentary offices. It is often the case that, despite our sincere desire, we cannot help, e.g. We're past trial dates. As I said, I am pleased that the President may take up the subject of an emergency review in his draft law on the Supreme Court, because perhaps for example. In some civil matters, it would mean the possibility of going back to some old history where there is simply no more procedural means. On the other hand, I would like to stress with all my power that in all my actions I try to be an advocate for the civil rights of all citizens. The topics I set out in today's speech show how multiplicative this activity is. I would like to assure you that, as I drive around Poland, next week I will be at least in the West Pomeranian voivodeship, people are really not interested in whether I was chosen by this party or by another party, by these Members or others, but they are interested in very specific matters which are to be dealt with, in which, you can say, the different governments have failed along the way. There were a number of questions about freedom of conscience and religion. This is one of the fundamental freedoms. It is a freedom which is given to those who believe in God as the source of truth, beauty and justice, as well as to those who do not share this faith, but these values derive from other sources, as the preamble to the Constitution states. I would like to address at the very beginning the matter which was taken, which was mentioned by two persons, by Mr Winnicki and perhaps by one more person, a Member, concerning this discreet use of religious symbols, because here there has been some fundamental misunderstanding which I would like to explain. Well, the situation was as follows. The employee of the bank had David's star on top of her clothing. So are people. They carry a cross, so there was David's star hanging under her neck, for which she was challenged by the person who appeared in the bank. I thought this was a very important moment to say and express my position that there is nothing... that it is in no way against, so to speak, the rights of the employee to use or show religious symbols. And you can say that this discreet display of religious symbols is as much within the normal code of every employee. And the whole story stayed. interpreted so that I supposedly restrict someone's freedom of conscience and religion and present religious symbols. So to stand up for someone's beliefs and creeds, to defend a person who, you might say, was insulted for what religion he is, is misinterpreted completely. I no longer want to go into the details of why this happened and whose legal opinion affected it, and how, I might say, the quote from my speech to the Polish Jews Forum was manipulated. This, on the other hand, is, I think, a very fundamental issue. Besides, in this context, I would like to say that right now we are moving on with the implementation of the social research that has been commissioned to us or, can we say, proposed by the Catholic Information Agency on discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of religion and religion. The Ombudsman is an equality body and must carry out investigations in this context. We always organize such, you can say, a public announcement, which research we want to carry out. It was the Catholic Information Agency that said it would be useful. In this context, I would also like to talk about the issue of children's prayer in kindergarten. Here we have the provisions of the Minister of National Education regulation, which provides for how to organise religious lessons, ethics in schools and kindergartens. This regulation, of course, regulates whether one can pray in these institutions. And there the situation was that, as I recall, a survey was conducted in which parents were to say whether children could pray in kindergarten or not. We're gonna do it. We decided to explain it because we had doubts whether everything was done there correctly. Moreover, the parole board responded, carried out a check in this kindergarten, even made recommendations, partly in agreement with our reservations. And in fact, the case is over. So that's, I think, kind of a typical, everyday intervention job. And here, it seems to me that this position of education curator was quite important, as well as the fact that we carried out checks as a result of our intervention. If you allow me, I will be happy to send you a full copy of the documentation on this matter. The second point in several statements concerned the relation between the Ombudsman's office and international bodies and institutions. Art. 17 of the Act on the Ombudsman states that the Ombudsman cooperates with various institutions, organisations dealing with the protection of human rights. This is precisely about national and international institutions. And this is, you can say, a good practice that is supported by the UN, which is extremely valued in terms of the UN, which is supported in some of the documents adopted at the level of the Human Rights Council and the UN High Commissioner, which deals with the presentation of the so-called. shadow reports to international authorities. One is the UN Human Rights Committee, another is the Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Committee. And it looks about the way that the government presents its report, the Ombudsman makes his own comments, then the members of the committee take this into account and try to figure out what that results from. As far as the UN Human Rights Committee is concerned, as I recall, this issue of the ban on the taking away of children has not been taken into account, because this is an issue, I think, more for the Committee on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights. I'd have to see if the child's spokesperson was involved. As far as I can remember, I wasn't in my position on this. On the other hand, I would like to assure you that, as in today's speech, some government programmes, especially on social matters, are positive. I think that 500+ is a program that, you can say, should please every spokesman, because we have, for example, much less complaints about usury, loans, about the use of people, the use of their naivety. I'm talking about the apartment+ program. I am waiting for it to begin to be implemented, because perhaps thanks to it the level of homelessness in Poland will decrease. And I would like to stress that in every such speech I try to be as objective as possible and, above all, I want to present this information, which was previously the subject of my speeches, which is de facto to a large extent a summary of those actions or speeches which were previously undertaken by the Ombudsman. I humbly accept my comments on TVP Info, but I would like to stress with all my power that the first sentence of my speech in this broadcast was: it is the German people, it is Germany who is responsible for the Holocaust. That was the first sentence. Only later did the second sentence come in the context of the painters. And my mistake, which I admit, was that, and that's why I apologized that I used the phrase: the Polish people, instead of: the units of the Polish people. And I believe that if anyone was offended by that statement, my role as ombudsman was to make an official apology for what I did. On the other hand, I would like to stress that in Poland we have a big discussion about responsibility and actions, responsibility for using the wording of Polish concentration camps. I am of the opinion that not necessarily the rules of criminal proceedings should be used in such situations, because if we have a journalist who speaks in such a way very far away, it is difficult to imagine even a court case as it would be conducted. But I think that the matter of Charles Tendera, a prisoner of the Auschwitz concentration camp, who says: it affects me, is very symbolic and very important for our entire nation. In a sense, it is a matter in which the concept of civil law is broken, one can say, that personal property cannot be violated in an abstract way - that is, the personal property of a whole large group of people cannot be violated by the use of certain wordings. Mr. Charles Tendera says it touches me because I was there. In the same way as, I don't know, Marian Turski would say something like that because he was there. I am very pleased that the appeal court has decided to apologize in this case. I am glad that the Ombudsman's office could participate in this matter. Moreover, in recent times I have sent a letter to the attorneys, such a public statement - and it has been sent, as far as I know, by the patron of Obara to the court in Germany - in which I point out that ZDF TV cannot now use the argument that the courts in Poland, because they are not independent and under political pressure, have issued such a judgment. I wrote: I am sorry, but at the moment when this sentence was handed down, the courts were absolutely independent and fully aware of what they were doing, and it is not possible to use the arguments of the current public debate in such a way as to question the execution of that judgment. There's a question: where was the spokesperson when...? and there's a lot of different passwords. With regard to the reprivatisation issue, I have sent a large, long, dozens of pages to the Prime Minister on how I believe the problem of reprivatisation should be resolved. Moreover, individual spokesmen had done the same thing. Our Civil Law Team, which has several outstanding specialists, regularly assists tenants in various matters, whether Warsaw or Poznań or other cities. As far as reprivatisation is concerned, I believe that as long as we do not adopt a proper bill that will regulate all of this, we will still be in a big problem. Moreover, I believe that this law - this is the postulate I made to the Prime Minister - should be based on the principle that unfortunately time has passed, we collect claims, but we reduce these claims in accordance with the ruling in Broniowski and others against Poland. Moreover, in order for this to be economically feasible, compensation would probably have to be paid through long-term bonds in order not to bear the costs on an ongoing basis, but to remove these costs in time. And now, if this were to work, I think we could solve a large part of the problems that are taking place. However, when it comes to Amber Gold, of course we are looking at this procedure, but I believe that it is mainly the responsibility of the prosecution at this point in time to secure everything. Since there is a prosecutor's case and, on the other hand, there is a committee of inquiry, I do not see the need for the Ombudsman to intervene, because the Ombudsman's role in such situations is somewhat subsidised. If there is a prosecutorial proceeding, which I understand will lead to some form of compensation for the victims of Amber Gold, then this problem will be resolved, and I realize, of course, that in any case such compensation may not be sufficient and satisfactory for the victims, in the same way as the person whose money was stolen and then the thief was never found, and will never be satisfied with it either. There was a charge: Why is the spokesman only talking about the case of Igor Stachowiak? Like I said, Igor Stachowiak is one of many things. The analysis of the court files, the very specific court files that we have carried out, shows that from 2009 to 2016. 33 officers were convicted of crimes that could be called torture, that is, abuse of those deprived of liberty. We have intervened in many of these cases. Right now, it's up to you to say... Our standard action, as such signals appear, is to regularly send letters to the prosecutor's office, to the police headquarters or district commissioners with a question of disciplinary action, but we will not resolve this problem unless we solve the general problems. Here in this context, I would like to say that Mr Jachnik asked about the question of assessing the activities of the prosecutor's office. Well, I don't judge that very well. I'll even skip the constitutional analysis at this point. One of the requests to the Constitutional Tribunal was that the Attorney General gained an individual competence to indicate which procedural actions were to be carried out, to whom he could disclose the file of the investigation. It's a whole sea of legal issues. And now, in a situation where the Minister of Justice can still set up and dismiss the Presidents of the courts, there is, in addition, a serious constitutional problem. In such proceedings, if we receive a signal from citizens, we try to download files, explain these matters, indicate what actions may be taken. One of the teams who deal with it regularly sends me such reports on my desk: Mr. Spokesman, we have succeeded in this case, we have succeeded in this, we have succeeded in this. If you are interested, I would very much like to present such a report or such information from these daily interventions. Moreover, this, of course, also includes classified matters, because we have access to classified material and in this way we can analyse these matters. However, I thank you for this suggestion, because I think that maybe this should be the subject of such a more systematic action, it is such a holistic examination of what is currently happening in the prosecutor's office, on the basis of the signals that come to us. Mr Jachnik said this: the people we led have not received support, no matter what. We have about 2,000 a year. requests for an annulment in criminal matters, each year we submit about 70 cassations. I am very appealing to the Sejm once again for an increase in the budget, and we will be able to handle more of these matters. Okay. 85% of the cassation ends positively. Perhaps this doubt that appeared in the statement is that we have prepared a publication that is called: 20 most important or most interesting deletions, where we have tried to illustrate what problems citizens are facing, but this is the result of selection, selected cases from the last few years, to show, you can say, the problem. I would like to thank the Criminal Law Team very much for taking care of the cancellations, because if we have, for example. cases where you have to analyze 50 volumes, 100 volumes of files, and that only applies to one case, that is a very big, serious effort, work requiring great commitment. There was a question, a remark about the Ombudsman becoming a spokesperson for the rights of judges. Let me put it this way, there are individual situations when I would even agree with the thesis that you have put forward, as well as other people, because actually sometimes judges turn to their individual cases, saying: - something is wrong with the rules. Even so, the current Deputy Minister of Justice long ago had such a problem, whether the Minister could dismiss the judge from the delegation without giving any justification. Even one case like this before the Constitutional Tribunal we joined. Then, you can say, the spokesperson says: okay, the judge also has his civil rights and can't be called off without a justification. It is important that every decision that is discreet at all should be justified. On the other hand, I am, of course, aware that the wording used by the Member did not refer to this individual issue or to the various ones, it can be said that the rules on the rules governing the service of judges, but to the question of defending the independence of judges, the independence of courts. I believe that the role of the Ombudsman is not only to deal with matters that are, I would say, everyday, but also to protect institutions that protect civil rights and freedoms. Without independent courts, we will not have the protection of civil rights and freedoms. I believe that it was my duty to speak on this issue, moreover, it was my duty to speak in this House, in the Senate on this subject. If the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provide that the Ombudsman may comment on matters which fall within the scope of its application, I have found that this is such an exceptional situation that I should have a speech on this subject, especially since I do not have clear perspectives on how, when the Constitutional Tribunal might possibly be able to deal with such a matter, let me put it, it can be said, so delicately. I am pleased in this context that the President has decided to veto these two judicial laws and I do not believe that this is a political activity, I believe that this is an activity which is inextricably linked to the Ombudsman's mission. On the other hand, even here in this House, I have said this, I remember my speech, and today I have also said this: I do not judge, Mr President, the courts well, but what else is independence, what else is reliability and efficiency. What else is the independence of the judge, and what else is his relationship with society, ways of communicating. I think this is a special time in our history, because perhaps this is the moment when you and the people who worked in various NGOs, including local ones, finally said: we are going to get someone to hear this voice. I agree that many times it has been pea throwing against the wall, telling judges - you have to be more polite, you have to respect the person in court, you have to plan a proper trial, you can't mix with the protocols, you have to make sure that you deliver the legal mail, you have to determine whether you are competent to investigate the case within two weeks, months of the case being brought in, and not after a year to realize that you are not the ones handling this case. So that is on the one hand this relationship, and on the other hand all these different changes, I would say, small, smaller, bigger, regarding the cognitive, service, mediation, experts that need to be fixed, I am fighting for it and I am calling for it and this is what my speech was about. We talked about the transparency of the proceedings, and I think I should look at whether I still have something to do here, also in the context of recording trials. I cannot agree that the Ombudsman does not cooperate with local NGOs. I'd say it's the opposite. Farm visits sound a little bad, because the farm visits may be made by the Prime Minister, she and the voivodships can oversee what is happening in the various regions. The spokesperson is here to find out what's in the grass and what people are complaining about. What's more, even when I get there and the mayor shows up who would love to be at the meeting, I say, Mr. Mayor, great, let's shake hands, but then I want to be with the citizens and have a chat, because they might want to complain about you. What we care about before we arrive in a given village next week will be Szczecin, Stargard, Gryfice, Czaplinek, Siemczyno, Drawsko Pomorskie, Złocieniec, Gryfino, we are trying to investigate what the local looks like, you can say, the market of NGOs, who is active, who works, what people do, and we send them invitations. It is for them that, above all, there are these meetings and then we try to cooperate with them, to address these topics, to initiate them. Such a big topic last year was a matter of fighting smog, it was very good cooperation. We work a lot with patient organisations, dealing with older people, people with disabilities. So that this cooperation is working out pretty well here. High Izbo! I would like to refer to Mr Winnicki's words and the allegations that have been made, the very serious charges. The Member said that I am promoting cultural Marxism. I feel like what I'm promoting and what I do is the Constitution. The Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The Member alleged that any spokesperson would deal with the affairs of ordinary citizens. Probably so, only if you look at the statistics, at least the statistics of the general speeches, which were 441... And these are very serious things, because the general statement is not just a half-page letter: dear Minister, take care of it, only this is a saying: citizens turn, there are such and such problems, we describe this problem, then we suggest solutions and ask for a response. That was 441, I have the impression that at least 1/3 more than in the previous year. There are really a lot of different legal proceedings in which we participate, and this is, in my opinion, a big issue of how the Ombudsman deals with the affairs of ordinary citizens, because he can do better and he can do worse. I feel that even those who criticize me are trying to see that I am trying to handle these matters quite neatly and conscientiously. As regards the plea in law concerning Article. 18 constitutions, I say from the beginning that art. The 18th Constitution speaks of a relationship between a man and a woman. If I had to... Any ideas regarding the introduction of same-sex marriages require a change of constitution. On the other hand, if someone wants to regulate their private life outside the country, their family life, if someone wants to realize something that results from a very deep feeling that can be shared by two people, then the state should not interfere with it. The refusal to issue certificates for the purposes of marriage, partnerships outside the country is, I believe, a violation of the right to privacy of these persons. As regards the assessment of Mr Paul Cameron's case and the allegation that the Ombudsman allegedly promotes LGBT organisations, it was indeed the Ombudsman who brought proceedings before the appeal court. Why? Because I believe that NGOs should not be harassed for their words, for their actions, for their interventions, for certain, you can say, sometimes even controversial courts. Moreover, I believe that this scientist is a public person, and since he is involved in the public debate, he should be more resistant to criticism. I realize that as an example. I'm exposed to extremely serious criticism, but what I need to be characterized by is thick skin. And so if we have a scientist who comes to Poland and promotes specific thesis, he must also realise that he is being criticized. Now I would like to say that as a result of the intervention, the appeal court changed the judgment given by the Regional Court in Toruń. As far as one term is concerned, he ordered an apology, but in principle, it can be said that he changed that sentence to the extent that this organisation was supposed to pay compensation to the plaintiff. The next issue is the consent of teenagers, I'm sorry, it's about taking... I'm sorry, I don't know... Is this my glass yet? I guess...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u425	I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u426	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u427	Excuse me, sir, but I don't mind your glasses. I'm very sorry. Pour yourself a fresh one, and if there isn't, please, upstairs, mom. [[There it is, there it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u428	It's, it's, it's good. I am of the opinion, and this intervention came from here, a general speech to the Minister of Health, that if we have in Polish law provided that we can engage in sexual activity under the age of 18, then the consequence should also be access to a gynecologist's doctor. Moreover, my position is shared by the patient's spokesperson, Ms Krystyna Kozłowska. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Modern Posel Club has submitted...]] What's more, we went to the Minister of Health... [[But why without the parents knowing?]] Okay, I'll explain. Why without parental consent? Because in my opinion, our social life is so shaped that children who engage in sexual activity before the age of 18 do not usually tell their parents. If there is, of course, a great relationship of trust, then they inform, and then, you can say, it all works out nicely, and I think I would wish for every parent to have such a relationship with their loved ones, so that it would be possible, but in many situations it is not. And now if we were to hold back, especially the girls, from being able to contact doctors, it could lead to all sorts of diseases. [[And birth control and abortion should also be available without parents knowing?]] On the other hand, when it comes to contraception issues, I would have to think about it. I don't want to answer that right now, but... I'm sorry, not when it comes to contraception, yes, I think so. As for abortion, we have certain indications when abortion in Polish law is foreseen. [[But without your parents' knowledge, do you think that should be the right for teenagers?]] I wouldn't want to... I know that my words, I can say, will later be interpreted in various ways, and I would not like to say now, at this point, that, so to speak, a precise answer, Mr President. [[Can I have it in writing, please?]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u429	Mr Spokesperson, this can always be done in writing, especially since some Members do not have such questions in writing as well... There's no need for polemics.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u430	Good. Now, as regards the question of the rights of persons with disabilities, in my speech I have chosen one example, an example which is systemic, which is important, I would say fundamental, because we have an unfulfilled promise resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And what does the spokesperson do? Well, for example, he goes into proceedings where those guardians of people with disabilities want to lead to the execution of this sentence and increase this benefit. But there are more topics: access to justice for people with disabilities, the fight against an institution of incapacity, the question of people with intellectual and mental disabilities, which are located in prisons. We have examined the situation of each of these people, and I am very happy to present a comprehensive report on this subject to the Member who asked this question. Many pages of the Ombudsman's report are devoted to this. Moreover, there is a special Expert Committee on Persons with disabilities in the Ombudsman's office, who have their hands full and advise what can still be done. We even have the Expert Committee. Deaf people who do the same thing. Mr Święcicki's question about improving cooperation with the Sejm. It is true that, with regard to these general speeches which are presented by the Ombudsman, their main address is the government. It's the government's job here to get a clue as to what to do, how to do it. On the other hand, I hope that these speeches to which there is no reply, or this response, are unsatisfactory, will then be the subject of parliamentary interpellation, questions during the parliamentary debate, individual speeches by Members - one can say, the subject of parliamentary work being carried out. Some of the speeches are addressed to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions of the Senate. In particular, one can say, I take these actions when this typical road, contacts on the line - the ministry will fail. Then there's a chance the Senate committee will take the subject. In fact, as a result of two interventions in recent years, two draft laws have been prepared. Finally, another mechanism, which also works quite decently, is the System Analysis Team operating at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. Mr President, you can say, while continuing the line of "Duda Help," he thought that four spokespersons should meet regularly: children's rights, civil rights, financial rights and patient rights and think about these issues that are to be addressed and resolved. Some draft laws have already been prepared. Now, one can say, we are having a dialogue about the President's presentation of an amendment to the Law on State Compensation for Victims of Crimes, because this is a law that, despite many attempts and amendments, is still not working. I wonder if this can be presented in this way: how many cases have been dealt with or carried out. Maybe it's a question. a little more illustrative, how it could be presented, but we will think about it so that perhaps this is how we can approach the future, i.e.. Systemically. Mrs Tomaszewska's question - family matters, courts. I believe that, if we are talking about courts and about the effectiveness of action, the length of proceedings, the issue of family courts is fundamental, that is to say, that it should be quick and efficient there. And as far as cross-border matters are concerned, this is a particular challenge. Why? Because the end of each week, a month is a parental separation, parental alienation and it makes it very difficult to rebuild these relationships later. In Poland, I would like to put it this way, with the situation in which all the time occurs, every year the cultural change resulting from the changing role of women and men in a relationship, the different social roles - increasing emphasis, and very well, the role of men - while not necessarily, I would say, keep up with legal proceedings, and the law, and especially the law. For what of the fact that it will be decreed in the family code and caring, that it should be more and more frequent to apply alternative care, if, you might say, general social mentality and social conditions are not sufficiently adapted to this? What is the point of ensuring better arrangements for dealing with a child if at some point a child becomes the subject of a powerful dispute between parents? I put it in such a way that these points of dispute in parental matters are sometimes too much, because the spouses are arguing about whose fault, the property, the alimony, and also about the matter of contact with the child. One of the ideas that I believe is important and which I have put forward is that the child should have his own attorney in divorce proceedings to represent his interests, so that it is not an object, it can be said, only disputes, and this court should look at it. The second is to increase, you can say, support and psychological, and logistics for family courts. The third is to improve cross-border proceedings. Another: we need to think more about the use of these institutions, which are already in the Family and Care Code, which make marriages not so much directed to compulsory mediation or co-ordination before the divorce decision, but at least explain to them what their new life will be about, how it will change from the point of view of relations with children. I know that in Gdańsk there is a foundation of Pelikan, which thinks very interestingly about it, and will organize conferences under my patronage at the end of October. I'm talking about this in a nutshell, because on Monday I'm going to have a speech at a congress of family judges in Zakopane, where all this, you can say, will be collected - that's what I'm talking about. And perhaps you will accept that I will also send this speech to you. On the other hand, the second large area, where much has been done - and here is the example where cooperation with another spokesperson, the spokesperson of the rights of the child, has produced good results - is the question of paying alimony or not paying alimony rather. We have set up an expert committee on the issue of alimony - a dozen really great people who deal with various topics related to it. One of the successes, I think, is that we managed to convince the Ministry of Justice to revise the Penal Code and not to direct them to prison for a criminal offence, but to use electronic bracelets. But it's just one thing, because there's a whole series of other things: for example. how the bailiffs are supposed to contact the ZUS and verify who when he gets the money and then execute what to do with the maintenance fund, how to raise the threshold in the maintenance fund, or perhaps finally introduce the so-called. maintenance tables, i.e. a solution that would make it easier for the court to calculate the amount of alimony. So that this is the subject of this team's work and, you might say, such a regular reflection and communication with authorities. As for free legal assistance - there was a question by Mr Romecki - this is here... [[I didn't get the answer to my question, because I asked something else, that institutions, for example. social services are treated differently, more seriously than parents when they speak about their own child. The courts treat the parties, the parents - lower, the institutions - more unevenly.]] Okay, so maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u431	But, Commissioner, this is rather a question for the Ombudsman, and this is the moment. Now we have an ombudsman. If something is not completed, perhaps you will answer in writing, especially to those who are absent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u432	I understand the question. I'm gonna think about whether or not these signals were coming to us. I said these things, which - you can say - mostly aroused interest, were his subject. On the other hand, I am aware that opinions for divorce proceedings can sometimes raise doubts. The question of free legal aid. Here we regularly raised various issues related to the fact that the most important thing is the so-called. Circle of beneficiaries, i.e. persons who may receive legal aid. It is a question of whether law clinics can participate in this system, also of quality supervision of legal assistance and the scope of this legal assistance. Now we are at a good stage, because Mr President, you can say, took the palm of priority and literally two months ago presented a new bill which - I think - will solve most of these problems, also indicated by the Ombudsman. However, I would like to emphasize one word that I used during my first speech. Even if we have the best legal aid system, it will not solve the problem of whether the citizen is actually legally empowered, whether the citizen is actually able to exercise his rights effectively, or whether the citizen knows how to do so. This is my impression of numerous meetings with people who have so-called loans. francs, which are often e.g. they did not even realize that the financial spokesman could help them that the financial spokesman could give a significant view of the matters affecting them, did not know how to complain, and that these complaints could have a very concrete outcome in the proceedings. This is, I think, a very important thing - to think a little bit wider. Because even if we create the best law and expand the circle of help, the question arises as to whether citizens are sufficiently aware of how to pursue their rights in a situation where they have a real problem. One last question, Mrs Rosa, regarding the anti-violence convention. The convention happily... I am pleased that I have participated in this debate and that the announcements that Poland will deliver the convention have been withdrawn and that the convention is valid in Poland. I think this is a very important thing. But in order for it to apply, it has to be, I say, internalized by all authorities. They must be well aware that the fight against domestic violence, which affects women and children in particular, is the foundation of this local activity. As I drive around Poland, I see that there are different ways of doing this - there are support centres, crisis intervention centres everywhere, there are not adequate shelters where women can hide from the perpetrator, or at last there are systems that can effectively separate the perpetrator from the victim. What brings up certain hopes is that after this year, I feel like we're talking a little bit differently about fighting violence. We are talking less and less about ideological issues, and we are talking more and more about real aid. Perhaps some of the cases that have been the subject of a wide public discussion have contributed to this. One of the things that has recently been proposed by the Minister of Justice as a result, quite consistent intervention by the Ombudsman, is that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the organisation of the first hearing for the victim of rape and the victim of domestic violence will change. Because so far it has been so that the first one - it is the most important one and which should in principle be the only one - the hearing was organized even two to three months after the event. Then it may be very difficult to bring such a matter to an end. The victim must have the impression that the State is on its side at the time when it reports to that State, and the procedures should be adapted to ensure this. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, my fellow Members, I feel like I've exhausted the subject when it comes to beatings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u433	Thank you very much, Mr Spokesman, for this comprehensive answer to all the questions. After that, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u434	I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Ombudsman for his uncompromising stand to uphold universal and fundamental democratic values and fundamental civil rights. Unfortunately, after the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal and the destruction of the justice system, it seems that only the offices of the Ombudsman and of the rights of the child become a refuge, the last bastions and islands of freedom, tolerance, where citizens can find refuge, harmed and harmed by the actions of a vile change. At least until both of you hold these positions. And as you can see with the naked eye, you're both salt in the eye of the rulers. In accordance with the Act of 5 August 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and Poles have access to free legal assistance provided by lawyers, lawyers or relevant applicants. However, we can read in the information: "The number of people still remains at a high level... to whom only explanations are given and (...) information about the measures available to them in general. This phenomenon shows not only a low level of knowledge, but also a systemic deficit of universal legal aid. Does this mean that the free legal aid scheme in force since January 2016 has not worked? And the other thing. Especially in the last 2 years, the number of attacks against foreigners living in Poland has increased sharply. In your opinion, do the procedures in force and, above all, the laws properly protect those who are attacked? And a technical remark: the rulers claim that Poland is an oasis of freedom, tolerance and democracy. Meanwhile, the volume of RPO information has only increased in the last 2 years from 681 pages to 958 pages. Coincidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u435	I state that the Sejm has been informed about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 and about the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016 (print No 1634) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 1785). I ask the Chairman of the National Judicial Council of Mr Dariusz Zawistowski to provide information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u436	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that this report on the activities of the National Judicial Council has been written and covers all aspects of the operation of the National Judicial Council. It seems advisable to pay attention to fundamental issues at the moment, but I would like to remind you of an issue that seems very important to me. It concerns the powers of the National Judicial Council and the assessment of that competence from the point of view of the assumptions which accompanied the creation of that body. The composition of the National Judicial Council, which includes the representatives of the judiciary, parliament and executive authority, in my opinion very well reflects this main idea that safeguarding the independence of the judiciary is of course a very important issue, but it is not only the role of judges themselves or the judicial authority, that the responsibility to ensure the independence of the judicial authority is incumbent on all authorities. From this point of view, this composition also refers to the idea that the division of authorities also requires cooperation between these authorities, that these problems cannot be separated here. The National Judicial Council was conceived as an organ to meet these assumptions. Therefore, it would be very important to cooperate properly between the representatives of the various authorities at the stage of the action of the National Judicial Council with regard to matters relating to the competence of the National Judicial Board. You can imagine it could look better. The main reservations from the point of view of the National Judicial Council are that for a long time there has been no cooperation primarily with the Ministry of Justice, because the Minister of Justice, as a member of the National Judicial Council, has not participated in the meetings of the National Judicial Council for almost 1.5 years nor has there been any contact with the Ministry on matters that are relevant to the functioning of the judiciary. However, proper cooperation should be based on the fact that some assumptions, e.g. projects relating to the functioning of the judiciary, will be consulted with the National Judicial Council or with various organisations, including judicial associations. It seems to me that here it is a fundamental flaw that could be pointed out in such a general way. On the other hand, the National Judicial Council deals in practice primarily with the identification of candidates for free judicial positions. This is also very important in establishing the independence of the judicial authority, as it is generally assumed that the way in which certain persons are appointed to judicial positions should also guarantee the independence of the judicial authority. Therefore, not only do we attach great importance to these issues from the point of view of the proper conduct of the evaluation process itself, but we also see an important systemic value. If we look at the statistics on the functioning of the National Judicial Council in the area related to the presentation of candidates for judicial positions to the President, we will see quite a significant change in comparison with 2015 because there were far fewer applications than in 2015. This is a very large number, a drop in the number of these applications by more than 3,000, but this is due to the fact that the new rules have practically fully worked, which limit the possibility of running for free judges in competitions. Now we're practically dealing with this situation, that if there's an open seat and there's an announcement about it, then the number of candidates who come forward corresponds to roughly the number of vacancies. The current regulation and a certain practice of the Minister of Justice, which now announces with great delay the vacant judicial places, translated into the fact that in 2015 101 people were presented to the President for appointment as judges less than in 2015. I have already talked about this in the committee of justice, that not announcing these vacant judicial positions is very disturbing because of the fact that the data we have at our disposal shows that there may be about 700 free judicial posts on a national scale or even more, because there is a notice to the Minister of Justice that he is now going to announce competitions for free judicial positions in appeals courts - 55 posts, in district courts - 250 posts, and also in regional courts - 22 posts. At the same time, there were proceedings relating to the staffing of assesors' posts and it was indicated in this notice that this covered more than 300 seats. So if we take all these numbers into account, it gives us at least 700 uninsured free judges. However, this smaller number of candidates submitted to the President is not linked to any delays in the opinion of these candidates at the stage of proceedings before the National Judicial Council. The results haven't changed here. They are very similar to those achieved by the Council in 2015. We can say roughly that on average this competition procedure at the stage of the procedure at the National Courts Council from the moment of receipt of this dossier until the adoption of the resolution is 66 days, so it is not a long period. There is no delay in examining these applications for judicial nominations at the stage of proceedings before the National Courts Board. In practice, the problem is this stage of the announcement of the free judicial seat and the proceedings relating to the submission of this candidacy to the National Judicial Council. Now the backlogs are very, very big. I have already stressed that we have additional risks associated with introducing a retirement age for women in courts of 60 years. It's gonna start in October, so it's gonna take a lot of judge seats out. Free posts will be created primarily in regional and district courts. At the same time, at the end of this year, there is an end to the rules which allow for the early retirement of judges who have a specific period of office as judges. I am afraid that next year the number of vacant, unattended judges will increase significantly. It is difficult to assume that the efficiency of the judiciary will be increased, that the waiting time for the case to be heard will be reduced when those unestablished places in the courts are arriving. The National Judicial Board shall be a body composed of 25 members. He'll be happy at the plenary. Data for 2016 show that such plenary meetings were 20. It took almost 60 days, exactly 58 days. I think the most important course of action, which is related to the presentation of candidates to the President for free judicial positions, is of a competitive nature. An average of about four candidates are currently applying for one vacant seat. Among them, the National Judicial Council chooses the people it points out to the President. The National Judicial Board shall act in two stages. First, there are teams in which there are between three and five people. These teams shall pre-evaluate the candidacy. Such teams were set up almost 500 in 2016. Later, all these nominations are presented in plenary of the National Judicial Council. With regard to this procedure, it can also be stressed that the number of candidates who are heard by the National Courts Council is increasing either directly or through the ICT system. In 2016, such interviews, such candidates were 276, who were additionally questioned about their predisposition to the profession of judge. It is also a very important issue of safeguarding the independence of the judiciary that concerns the functioning of the courts, in general the judicial system. In 2016, the Council The National Judicial Council has assessed 218 such projects, including 127 draft laws and 81 draft regulations for these laws. It also needs to be stressed that 30 draft amendments to the codes, i.e. such acts as are of a fundamental nature, were among these draft laws. It must be pointed out here that this scope of action of the National Judicial Council is very important. It is also important to improve cooperation at this stage of the presentation of drafts of these acts for opinion by the National Judicial Council. In fact, every time we have to stress that the time we have to draw up a project, a position, is too short. Very often there are such situations that it is literally a few days to evaluate the project. Then the substantive work on such a project is difficult, given that the National Judicial Council is an organ that does not function continuously. For example, judges or parliamentarians also carry out their duties outside the National Judicial Council. Judges are active judges. In order for them to participate in the work of the council, they must come to Warsaw. A team of several people needs to be set up, so this activity is in some way difficult. I would also like to stress, as far as such general issues are concerned, that the National Judicial Council has implemented its budget correctly. Of these measures, which were granted to the National Judicial Council, around 98% were used. , actually according to budget assumptions. The implementation of the budget was examined by the Supreme Audit Chamber. She has not made any significant comments or reservations, so it seems that from this point of view the National Court of Justice was functioning properly. In view of these budgetary issues, I would like to comment on some statements from government representatives that the activity of justice in Poland is particularly expensive and the expenditure on justice is one of the highest in Poland. I don't know whether it's in the world or in Europe, but that's what we've been saying lately. So it is difficult for me to refer in such a categoric way to these statements, because I do not know what the author meant by these particularly high expenses. I will refer here to two issues that are fully verifiable on the basis of Eurostat data. I would like to stress that total expenditure on the whole justice system including, for example, Prisons, so these are not just courts, amounted in Poland to 2472 million per euro. This is definitely not the highest expenditure in Europe, for example. Germany has allocated over 13 billion and Spain over 4 billion. The Netherlands, which is much smaller than Poland - 5970 million. So from this point of view it is difficult to say that spending on justice in Poland is one of the largest in Europe. It seems even more convincing to refer to these statistics, which illustrate the overall expenditure on justice in euro per capita, because this is more consistent with reality. Here Eurostat data shows that in Poland this is 64 euro per capita, and this is one of the lowest amounts that is recorded at all. The leader is Ireland, which spends 511 euros per capita. [[500?]] Yeah, so we can say 9 or 10 times more. So I do not know where this claim came from, that spending on justice in Poland is very high. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Lying.]] From these statistics it appears that as regards the percentage share of the budget, this is a high position. This, of course, can be accepted, but in the case of the data I was talking about, this cannot be said. On such issues, which are also very important from the point of view of the National Judicial Council, the issue of ethics and disciplinary liability of judges should also be mentioned. Here I would like to stress that the National Judicial Council has adopted a code of ethics for judges, which regulates the way judges should behave in the service and outside the service. A conduct which does not comply with the principles of ethics may be the basis for disciplinary liability of judges. In Poland, these disciplinary proceedings are initiated fortunately not much. It falls statistically, and in the last few years this level has not changed specifically, about 50 judgments against judges, in which substantively blame is assessed and penalties are imposed in these disciplinary proceedings. All these judgments are the subject of an assessment of the National Judicial Council and, in cases where those decisions raise doubts, are the subject of a challenge by the National Judicial Council. Here statistics show that, on average, about 10 such judgments in the year are brought before the National Courts Council. In recent years, there have been more than one measure of appeal against the detriment of others. So here we can say that the National Judicial Council is quite rigorous in assessing the approach to the implementation of ethics. A large proportion of cases involving disciplinary decisions against judges are related to traffic offences. Another serious group, in terms of the number of disciplinary offences, involves the late drawing up of reasons by the judges. Well, maybe that's it for me, because these are the issues I think are the most important. As I said, all other aspects of the action of the National Judicial Council are included in the report. Here I can only add that the National Judicial Council also has contacts with judges from abroad, because we are among others. a member of the European Judicial Council Network, so here we also exchange experiences with judges from other countries. It can be said that it is completely incomprehensible to them that there is no consultation with the judicial environment of the proposed changes referred to as judicial reform. In short, I can say that it is completely incomprehensible that there are no such contacts and that the judges do not comment on the assumptions of these proposed changes. Mostly it can be emphasized that the way in which judicial councils operate in individual countries, of course, looks very different, because there is no uniform model here, but the standard is that it should always be an authority independent of other authorities. In the case of judicial councils, the principle should apply that judges in councils are a majority and should generally be elected by judges. I am also talking about this in the context of the vetoed act of the President on the National Judicial Council and a project that is likely to appear soon. Personally, I do not yet know what is ultimately the concept, but from these announcements we hear, it would indicate that the President will, however, propose the choice of members of the National Judicial Council by parliament. In this case, at least the key issue would be who will submit these nominations, because, regardless of the constitutional provisions that lead to such an assessment, that judges should do so - because here we cannot get away from the wording of our constitution - in any of these systems that I know of, there is no solution for judges to be elected by Parliament and candidates to be from outside the judicial environment. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u437	Thank you very much, Mr President, for presenting the report. And now Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz will present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u438	Thank you very much. Report on the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at which the Chairman of the National Judicial Council presented information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 12 September, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski presented the most general information and problems related to the activities of the National Court of Justice and Human Rights in 2016, presented in full in extensive print no. 1634. Judge Zawistowski pointed out and characterized the following issues as the main areas of activity of the KRS in 2016, namely: the appointment of candidates for judicial positions, the act of resolution in personal matters and the opinion of the National Council of Courts. The chairman of the KRS also argued that 10% posts in the judiciary are not filled, as the Minister of Justice does not announce competitions for judicial positions. According to the President, the absence of judges is a reason for the length of court proceedings. The chairman of the KRS also raised the need to change the model of functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Krakow. The Chairman of the National Court Register indicated that in 2016 the Council addressed 500 requests to the President to appoint a judge or promotions. Candidates may also appeal, as you just said here, from negative claims to the Supreme Court. The third main area of action of the National Council last year was the opinion of draft legislation - the National Council adopted 218 opinions on these issues. The discussion was attended by representatives of various clubs who asked questions about various aspects of the operation of the National Courts. Some Members of the Council have joined a more serious debate with the President, some have raised concerns and reservations about the work of the Council last year, and others have fully supported the assessment and response of the President of the National Courts. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights heard information from the National Courts of Justice about its activities in 2016 and took note of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u439	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed to the next part of this point. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u440	Thank you. Position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016, print No 1634. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the information of the National Court of Justice on the activities of the Council in 2016. Under the Constitution, the National Judicial Council is to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The KRS is to ensure that judges comply with the prohibition of constitutional conduct of public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of courts and the independence of judges. In particular, judges must remain apolitical and the National Judicial Council must not join any political momentum or participate in current political life and political disputes. Mr. Chairman of the National Judicial Council in his activity information in 2016 focused primarily on technicalities, figures, tables, but the most important problems related to the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016 are beyond this information. However, in 2016 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The National Judicial Council continued its political activity against judicial reform projects carried out by the new authorities elected in the 2015 elections. This is also reflected in the report presented by the KRS for 2016, in the content of various opinions and resolutions adopted by the Council and in the organisational, foreign or media activities of the Council. It can be said that in 2016. The National Judicial Council focused mainly on actions not foreseen for it in the Constitution and in the Act on the National Judicial Council, i.e. it has become an important element of the anti-government political opposition. It adopted numerous anti-government and anti-Presidential resolutions awaiting or demanding the withdrawal of the Sejm, government and president from the necessary changes in the organisation of justice. She has taken numerous steps in this direction. The Council, contrary to the principles of separation of authorities, pursued its own foreign policy contrary to the interests of the Government of the Republic of Poland, consisting in making political complaints against the Polish government and the President to foreign centres. Common Also foreign visits to EU officials demanding pressure on the Polish legal government and the Sejm. Your own anti-government activity... Sorry, I will add here that these visits were carried out only by a part of the judge's national council, without the knowledge and participation of Members, although the trips and complaints submitted abroad were under the name of the whole body, i.e. the National Judicial Council. The own anti-government judicial activity of the part of the National Judicial Council was also based on complaint against Polish authorities ambassadors of foreign countries in Poland, among others. The German ambassador. The letters to him and petitions for the defence of the situation so far, which required the assessment of the current authorities of radical changes, were of a private nature. We only learned about the form of these contacts with the German ambassador in Poland at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after asking the chairman of the committee, who asked the President of the Council to provide the Sejm with a written copy of the address of the National Court of Justice and Human Rights addressed to the German authorities. Members who were members of the National Judicial Council did not have this knowledge, and the fact of informal meetings or written contacts of the judicial part of the National Court Register with representatives of a foreign State was heard from the media. In 2016, the phenomenon of deep cracks and divisions in the National Court Register was strengthened, in which they worked in practice, in which they began to act or in practice two distinct groups pursuing conflicting interests. The larger group of councils, judges, without the knowledge of the members of the board of Members, conducted their own corporate, openly oppositional to the government and the parliamental majority of political activities as part of the so-called so-called. total opposition in Poland, always under the name of the entire National Council of Courts, although they had no right to do so. Another problem was the principles of operation of the National Judicial Council, which were not altered by Members, including in previous years, many requests in this area. The dates of the meetings of the National Judicial Council have, in most cases, always been the same as those of the Sejm, which has often prevented Members from attending meetings and decisions of the Council. However, it was possible to set the dates for the meetings of the Council and the Sejm separately, because the agenda for the meetings of the Sejm has been known since September of the previous year, i.e. three months before the end of the year. In 2016, as well as in previous years, Members were quite fictitious in the KRS, rather as an addition to the majority group of judges, and so decisive in the Council. There are only six Members and Senators in the Council for 25 members. Members therefore have no real impact on all areas of the KRS, which, of course, discourages and makes sense of their participation in this body. Therefore, I would like to say that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Justice was actually necessary, because otherwise our activity is merely to look at how often against us, without any possibility of blocking at any time a resolution... It's completely missing the target. It's up to the judges to decide everything. Members are, in fact, redundant because they have no real influence on the work of the Council or on blocking any action of the Council, and their participation in the work of the Council is, as I said, also organisationally limited by preventing them from attending meetings. Members do not therefore have an influence on the candidates for judges, which are always indicated by only the judge's majority. In 2016, the President rejected 10 candidates nominated by the National Courts of Justice. All these activities of the board went into the public perception into the account of the entire board, i.e. Members who were deeply opposed to the rejection of applications. Moreover, we do not have the possibility, we do not have such a deep knowledge of the actual CVs and achievements of all the candidates, and the President had this opportunity and rejected them. We decide on the basis of very general, really very formal and sometimes stupid information, the more that voting in the Council, that is, those bad opinions, go into the account of the entire council, including Members. However, voting is anonymous and the meetings are not recorded, so it is difficult for the public because of such transparency to control the way the board is proceeding. In practice, the KRS restricts its activities and marginalises the role of Members. In 2016, the Council The National Judicial Council again financed and co-organized illegal, anti-government as established by the Congress of Polish Lawyers - in Katowice there was this congress - and co-edited anti-government, anti-Presidential, political resolutions, insulting, recalling, representative of presidents and representatives of authorities. The judge's majority of the National Judicial Council in its activities in 2016 used this constitutional body to implement or protect its group, corporate interests. She gave informal protection to many discredited judges, allowing non-legal hearings, but did not respond sufficiently to public cases of judges who embezzled professional ethics. The information of the 2016 National Council of Courts does not reflect the actual nature of the activities of the Council in 2016, which unfortunately deviated far from the constitutional and statutory framework, objectives and principles of action. It has become a strong element of the anti-government opposition, breaking the constitutional restrictions for judges and the judiciary, in which a very politically active spokesperson of the National Judicial Council has played a major role, far beyond its functions, adding even more oppositional and political character to the National Judicial Council. The Law and Justice Club therefore negatively evaluates the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u441	Arkadiusz Myrcha will give a speech on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. Today's Seym debate takes place in a special atmosphere. For months now, we have witnessed action taken by the parliamentary majority to transform the institutional role of this institution. This change would increase the impact of politicians on the composition and functioning of the KRS. When describing these actions each time, let us remember that they are only one element of a larger whole. We all see how the Constitutional Tribunal works now, but it does not actually work, because statistics on the number of hearings or judgments are embarrassing for the present tribunal. The judge Julia Przyłębska, who is still under unexplained circumstances, is the president, although we know that the understudy judge Mariusz Muszyński, a person trained by the intelligence services, is indeed in charge there. Besides, his ties to the Office of State Protection are still a matter of controversy today. Let us also see what is happening in the prosecutor's office, which operates under the political supervision of Zbigniew Ziobra. I will mention here only for example the accelerated promotions of friends of the Minister, the appointment of prosecutors without a competition absent from Mr Piotrowicz's Chamber, the visit of the head of the prosecutor's office of Bogdan Święczkowski at the Legal and Justice Office at ul. Nowogrodzka, mass redemptions of cases concerning racial crimes and encouraging the spread of hatred, protection of party colleagues of the Minister, because as one might call the absence of proceedings on allegations of political corruption carried out by Bartłomiej Misiewicz or a complete lack of response to the purchase by Minister Macierewicz of VIP aircraft for PLN 2 billion without a tender, while Deputy Minister Jak in the courtroom threatens disciplinary proceedings when he is not satisfied with the ruling. The quintessence of these pathologies has already become the famous billboard scandal, in which it is at the request of the government, and it can also be presumed that, with the strong support of the Ministry of Justice, the party foundation runs a vilifying Polish courts campaign for nearly 20 million PLN from Polish taxpayers' pockets. This is an attack by the executive authority on the judiciary. And it's an attack so brutal and reckless that they appear on posters and web pages slogans untrue, invented and sometimes even lying. And the D.A.'s office is silent, even though there have been reports of a crime and even though the case is obvious. This is what Polish reality looks like today. Although these issues appear to be directly unrelated to the subject of the report, this is extremely important in the context of the Law and Justice Plans I mentioned at the outset. This is a living proof of what ends up such pushing policies into state institutions, which should have as little in common with this policy as possible. The D.A.'s job is to detect and prosecute criminals. Instead of what he's doing? The indictment in the case of Daniel Obajtek, former Chief Pcimi, accused of taking bribes and fraud is withdrawn and then made president of two huge and strategic companies of the Treasury. After all, recently the entire Poland was told that the National Public Prosecutor's Office itself insisted that the indictment against Fr. Jack Miedlar, who calls for violence and hatred in an open and unfettered manner. These are only two examples, but they show very clearly what ends in interfering politicians with an independent institution. Therefore, when discussing the report on the activities of the National Judicial Council, we must not ignore the whole political background. I would just like to remind you that the National Judicial Council was established in 1989 as a result of the provisions of the Round Table. It is a special institution not only because it protects the independence of courts and the independence of judges, or one of the foundations of a democratic state. It is a special institution also due to its composition. It brings together representatives of all public authorities: legislative, executive and judicial. It is not only for judges, as many seem, but also for Members and Senators elected in Parliament, the Minister of Justice or the President's representative. And all 25 members have the same powers. To examine the activities of the National Judicial Council itself, let us remind you that its competence is, in particular, the assessment of candidates to serve as judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts, presentation of selected candidates to the President of the Republic, opinion on draft normative acts or adoption of resolutions on the application to the Constitutional Tribunal. The 2016 National Judicial Council held 20 plenary sessions, which resulted in the recognition of 1588 applications to serve as judges. She presented applications for the appointment of 415 judges to the President of the Republic of Poland. It is worth adding here that the percentage of candidates submitted with an application for appointment, who are judges or former judges, referenda or assistants, is 85.8%. Other people, about 14% They represent, among others, people. free competitions such as lawyers, prosecutors or other legal professions. Nearly 500 working groups of the Council were also set up to give an opinion on the application of candidates for vacant judicial positions. As shown in 2016, the exercise of the powers to apply to the Constitutional Tribunal was an extremely important element of the activities of the National Courts in so far as they concern the independence of courts and the independence of judges. The Council asked to examine the compatibility with the constitution of the controversial Article. 168a Code of Criminal Procedure providing for the authorisation as proof of materials obtained in breach of the rules of procedure or by means of a criminal act, so-called. The fruit of a poisoned tree. In addition, the Council requested to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose practical application I described in several examples at the outset, the Law on the System of General Courts and the Regulation of the Minister of Justice Rules of the General Court. It is also extremely important for the Council to give an opinion on laws and other legislative acts which regulate the wide-ranging matter of the functioning of the judiciary. A total of 218 draft normative acts, including 58 government draft laws, 49 parliamentary, 13 senate, 3 civil and 4 presidential, were evaluated in 2016. In addition, the Council expressed 27 positions, including 3 to the laws adopted, 3 to draft normative acts and 21 to deal with problems under Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 KRS Act. In its positions, the Council has consistently maintained its positions so far, namely that frequent amendments to the code rules undermine the constitutional principle of citizen's confidence in the state and the rule of law. It also pointed out that the designers, referring to the shortcomings of the existing rules, did not present any studies or analyses which would indicate the need to introduce draft amendments or arguments that would indicate that the existing rules create legal difficulties. This activity must also not be overlooked by the high positive activity in the opinion of normative acts on the political issues of our country. This was the consequence of the clearly increased legislative activity of the parliamentary majority in terms of regulating the functioning of the constitutional authorities of the State. The Council has taken a negative view of the merger of the role of prosecutor general and minister of justice. The Council also adopted a negative opinion on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act, indicating a number of provisions incompatible with the Constitution, such as an attempt to shorten the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The National Council of Courts critically assessed the draft laws submitted for opinion on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as well as on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the implementing provisions of those laws. In its opinions, the Council pointed out, inter alia, in favour of the report, that the laws undermine the stability of the legal system in the field of the system, contain a number of unclear, vague and inconsistent rules that have not been compatible with the legal regulations that have been in place for many years. The law must specify the organisation and procedure of the tribunal before it so that the tribunal is able to carry out all the tasks assigned to it effectively. At the same time, the legislator must not go beyond this scope of regulation and a normative act which does not fulfil that condition infringes Article. 197 constitutions. A few months after these laws came into force, we know that the allegations were fully substantiated. The Constitutional Tribunal is completely failing to fulfil its function of government today and is limited to resolving only cases which, due to different political motives, are relevant to the governing party. On the other hand, it is regrettable to admit that the whole group who are being challenged to the tribunal of laws that are important for Polish citizens expects to be recognized all the time. In conclusion, the above-mentioned report must be made clear that the National Judicial Council has fulfilled its constitutional and statutory obligations properly and with the utmost care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, if you don't mind, just a moment, five, ten seconds. This year's debate on the activities of the KRS is perhaps the last one referring to such a shaped council, an extremely important institution, embedded in the Constitution. When in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland we are discussing the positive effects of its activities, in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland a bill is prepared, which is probably the political composition of it. If the Sejm elects the judges' members of the KRS - whether by simple majority or qualified majority 3/5 - this will always be a political decision. What is more, it is not known what fate will befall the present members of the council. That is why we need to see this debate more broadly as another important voice in the debate. It is our duty to talk about the consequences that the proposals for changes put forward by the Law and Justice or by the President may bring with them. Therefore, for a reason, I mentioned at the outset the pathologies of the prosecution and the Constitutional Tribunal under a political shoe. Let's take this as a warning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u444	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I'm not a member of the National Judicial Council, but it was my honor to present the club's position on behalf of the Kukiz club. Well, at first I must refer to Mrs Pavłowicz's words, because if this cooperation looked like what Mrs Pavłowicz referred to here, it would be a lousy advice. And I would very much ask that the President then give an answer, because it is very important to confront two sides. Mr President, let me put it this way: for me there was not enough transparency in the work of the National Judicial Council. I also have a question for you about this assessment, because it wasn't on the committee. Which is made up of documents that you check for the nominations of judges or for the promotions of judges, whether they are. accompanying citizens' complaints or various other complaints which have been written in court proceedings in respect of different trials? Do you even know that there are such complaints against citizens? Do you know, for example, what decisions against these judges were taken in the European Court of Justice? It was positive for me what Mr President said was that you had a lot of direct hearings, because the paper would accept everything, and talking to the man and his direct assessment is quite different. It's very positive and that's what I'd expect. But what I didn't have. And what surprised me at what the president said? Well, Mr President said it was fortunate that only 50 disciplinary proceedings were initiated. Well, that's what I'm going to do. Mr President, in courts, it is really not good for judges to behave. If someone referred to the code of ethics of the judge - and I referred to the code myself several times - then the judges laughed in the eyes. Thus, this situation in the field of disciplinary proceedings primarily needs to be repaired, because cases usually end with a deputy disciplinary officer in a given district court, i.e. a colleague of the judge who is signed up for, and then they get stuck there, and then there comes a refusal. Later not everyone has the strength to fight further, because it must be said that some citizens are able to fight further, have the power of breakthrough, and others cannot afford it, others are breaking down and there are different reasons for it. I also welcome Mr President's explanations, at least given at the Justice Committee's meeting, that you are ready to accept a more open trial, a more transparent period of judicial nomination, because, for a good cause - as Prof. Pawłowicz said here - when the other party has no vote and everything closes in the votes and findings of the judges, this process is very closed. We would very much like to see, for example. - and I very much appreciate the openness of the President in the committee - the bookmarks on the web pages, so that we know in advance, much faster, who is the candidate, so that we can check what case law and basic data he has, because of course we do not go beyond the protection of personal data. And it would be great if we could broadcast, as in the Sejm from committee meetings, from the nomination meetings. That would be a very good offer. And it is a pity, Mr President - I know that this cooperation with the Sejm was difficult, I am aware - that you have taken such an initiative of a little war, of unnecessary war, because it was possible, as PiS did not want to talk, to talk to everyone, and it was possible to come up with some other common proposition, and to go on the basis that we would not give ourselves, because we are a special caste of people, was a mistake. And those mistakes... The other side also radicalized. The finale is that today we are in a very uninteresting situation, because the fact that the President has given a veto and that we may make something of it - maybe, because when we see it, we will know - does not mean that in any way there is a well-reformed judiciary. There is not a well-reformed prosecutor's office or common justice, where people most often go. Somehow the ricochet can affect the council. Let me give you an example. For example, the war for these two chambers. True, you could have, for example. propose one amendment with a qualified majority on nominations. There were different paths that could be chosen. We know what the PiS was talking about. He wanted to eliminate the difference and influence it. But he can't have the power to do whatever he wants. So that in this sense we share the position of the National Judicial Council. Therefore, if there is greater openness to the dominant process, if the proceedings of the National Judicial Council are more open to disciplinary proceedings, i.e. more scrutiny will be primarily of the Deputy Disclaimer, then I think that regardless of how the Board will be chosen, whether it will be carried out by the Sejm, for which I, I admit, am in favour, but by a qualified majority, because in accordance with the Article. The 4th nation is sovereign, I think the future of the judicial council can be successful and will be beneficial for the people who go to the courts. This National Judicial Council on behalf of the Kukiz movement, I wish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u445	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a report on the activities of the National Judicial Council, but we also need to be able to name things by name. In fact, today a report should be presented on the attack of the current government on the National Courts and on free courts. The KRS and the courts were simply targeted by the PiS. This was also confirmed by the recent incident, which is now going on, the billboard scandal, full of lying and unreliable messages. Last year's really like a front line report. It is on this front that the PiS slowly finishes Polish democracy, but also the rule of law. However, the last victim may be, to put it bluntly, the rights and freedoms of every ordinary citizen, man. High Izbo! The first blow of the PiS in the KRS and the courts are about 850 judges who do not judge because of the Ministry of Justice. In Poland, it was the Ministry of Justice's fault for 10,000. Judges do not rule until around 850. Almost 1/10 judges are not convicted by the Ministry of Justice, including more than 0.5 thousand. Judgeships are simply unpunished because of Zbigniew Ziobra. The reason for this is the lack of a vacancy notice, which the Ministry of Justice should issue rather than issue. Without this, the KRS cannot consider and judge candidates for judges. And if the Ministry starts the procedure for the appointment of judges, it's stalling forever. According to data provided by the National Judicial Council, e.g. in the case of the Court of Appeal in Gdańsk, the first decision to assign a post was taken by the Ministry after 91 days. Then the announcement itself was signed in the Ministry only after a further 298 days. The organizational activities that lie on the side of the ministry took more than a year. For almost 400 days, Zbigniew Ziobro filled one free judge's position. In addition, a significant proportion of judges who could rule are seconded to work, for example. in the Ministry of Justice. According to data provided by the National Judicial Council, at the end of August there were as many as 162 seconded judges in Poland. Moreover, as a result of changes to the General Court Act, judges will also be able to be seconded to the President's office and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Instead of ruling, where judges are needed, the PiS really directs judges to some vacation under palm trees at exotic institutions. And to all these unpaid jobs, the judges in the delegations are still getting jobs that are taken away from the courts. High Izbo! In practice, what does 850 judicial posts mean? What does it mean that 850 judges don't judge? Well, almost identical number of judges work in a very large Poznań appeal. They considered more than 1.1 million cases in 2016. On the other hand, in the whole of Poland the arrears of the courts for the first half of the year amounted to 2.5 million cases. This means that it would be possible for all posts to be filled and for all judges to be heard to be closed in two years. So you can make a clear diagnosis: today the biggest obstacle to the smooth operation of courts has a name - it is Zbigniew Ziobro. So if we want to remove the arrears in Polish courts, the first step should be to remove Mr Zbigniew Ziobra from the role of Minister of Justice. High Izbo! The second blow of the PiS, which is aimed at the National Judicial Council and courts, are the projects that stubbornly stubborn the National Judicial Council. It was supposed to be a blitzkrieg against free courts. Thanks to protests of tens of thousands of people on the streets of Polish cities, this plan has not yet been successful. But the plan is simple not to say, quite simple. First, the PiS wants to take control of the National Judicial Council, interrupting the current term of office contrary to the Constitution and choosing with the hands of politicians just a new, obedient party governing the composition. Then, after the takeover of the National Council of Courts, he wants to cast 0.5 thousand. Judges' posts are faithful to the party and to the President. We can see in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal how the filling of the institutions of the State by the representatives of the present government ends, as one of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal spoke of himself. Therefore, in the context of the ongoing work in the Presidential Palace on the Law on the National Judicial Council, it is necessary to state directly where the constitutional boundaries of possible changes are. Firstly, the violation of the Constitution will be the end of the current National Judicial Council. Constitution in Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 clearly states that the term of office of the elected members of the National Judicial Council lasts 4 years. If the President wants to interrupt the term of office of the current members of the National Judicial Council, he should submit a draft of amendments, but not a draft of the ordinary law. Secondly, a violation of the Constitution will be a transfer of powers to politicians to elect members of judges of the National Judicial Council. That would mean a direct fracture, among others. Article 2 The 10th Constitution, which guarantees the division of power, or an article that guarantees that if Mr.Zbigniew Ziobro or any other PiS politician wants to put his private enemy in jail, this is the case that will be dealt with by an independent court, not by a colleague or a person dependent on Mr. Ziobra. It is important to specify, because it is very important, that the legal choice of members of the National Judicial Council according to the Polish Constitution can only be made by judges. These are also the European standards presented, among others. through the European Judicial Council Network. With regard to the various information that comes from the Presidential Palace, it should be stressed that any provision concerning the election of members of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm, whether it be a majority of 3/5 or 2/3 of votes, will continue to be a change which will directly violate the Constitution. High Izbo! At this point it should be stressed that there are many legal and expert backgrounds that have appealed, among others. to the President for a change of course so far. In doing so, constructive proposals were put forward, e.g. presented by the Polish Judges' Association of the draft amendment of the Act on the National Council of Courts. Let us remind you that the project of the Polish Judges' Association of Polish Judges, among others. He assumed that the members of the National Judicial Council would be elected by the judges in direct elections, not by politicians, as suggested by the PiS, to be able to submit candidates to the council not by the Marshal of the Sejm, but by a group of 2 000. citizens, ombudsman, the Supreme Bar Council or a group of judges. This proposal also provided for the gradual addition of the Council members' posts over the course of their respective term of office, not for the expiry of the term of office of all the current members of the Council. Unfortunately, it seems that the work that is currently underway at the Presidential Palace on the new law on the National Council of Courts is moving in the same direction as the original project presented by Mr Ziobra, by the PiS, and is moving towards simply placing a paw on the KRS by the politicians of the governing party. High Izbo! Finally, the third blow of the PiS in the war against the National Judicial Council and the courts is the lack of consultation of laws that change the Polish justice system. And it was a duty, and a good habit for many years, to consult draft laws governing justice issues with the National Judicial Council. There is virtually no such consultation today. In the face of the KRS and the judges, the current authority is pursuing a policy of facts made. There is no consultation of laws. Laws are either not sent for consultation at all, or they are left for minimum time, sometimes literally a few days. Moreover, the current Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, does not come to any meetings of the National Courts. A year and a half and only twice participated in the meetings of the National Judicial Council. High Izbo! Out of all these facts, statistics and information, an image of the perfect, dream court for the current authority emerges. It is a passive court, mediocre, but faithful party. And there's not even a chance to improve the efficiency of the courts. Even the ruling party doesn't talk about it. Fortunately, this mediocre, passive, but faithful party court is still just a threat to the citizens, not yet our reality. And we, as Modern, will reach for all the legal possibilities for this threat to never come true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u447	Thank you, Member. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u448	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016, to begin with, first of all, by expressing my appreciation and thanking the President for the work that has been done during this very difficult year by the National Judicial Council. It is also not possible today for some broader reflection not to discuss the functioning of the National Judicial Council, which - I have the impression and I think that many have similar effects - has been victimized by a certain thesis of the current parliamentary majority, as well as by some government representatives. It was expressed quite simply that the judiciary in Poland is bad, and the fish breaks down from the top. Therefore, such a simple prescription is presented to Poles and Poles, that if we chase this National Judicial Council, suddenly courts will work better, courts will act faster and judges will deliver fairer judgments. This is an extremely catchy thesis, you have to admit, but it has nothing to do with reality. The Polish judiciary needs a very deep reform, a reform that cannot be reduced and simplified to a few simple slogans. There is a need to work on changes in material law, procedural law, so as to make justice, courts more accessible, shorten deadlines. This cannot be done in any way through such very violent attacks on the National Judicial Council or other bodies empowered by the Constitution. For this much more work is needed, there should be an atmosphere for consultation, cooperation with judges. I will remind you that many times, contrary to what the representatives of the Sejm majority said, they are open to such a discussion. It is not that a closed group of people is completely deaf to the need to talk and cooperate about changes to the Polish judiciary. But first of all, it has to be done through a debate. If we are actually thinking about making a difference, then we must do it in the spirit of debate. and above all, most importantly, what my previous speakers have said here today, it must be included in the framework of the Constitution. In this political reality in which we are, in which the present majority of the Parliament does not have a constitutional majority, there can be no temptation to celebrate the constitution with ordinary laws, which accord, in a very brutal way, with the institutions enshrined in the Constitution. I'm not saying that to heat the atmosphere to somehow hit most of the Seym, but that's what it should look like in a civilized country, and yes, it seems, in most countries. Mr President pointed out to one very important point that there are no similar cases in Europe so that the candidates for the counterparts of our KRS are pointed out by politicians. Politicians may, of course, decide to appoint a candidate from the judicial community as a member of the National Council of Courts, but they may not shape, choose these people from their own group. This is an extraordinary breach in a certain established, seems to be the practice of the European legal circle. It is worth paying attention to and considering as a certain point of this information today. A year ago, summing up on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club the work of the 2015 National Judicial Council, I thanked her for her clear and unmistakable position on the ongoing country of constitutional crisis. Today I want to appreciate the effort made by the national council in this matter last year. In this difficult time to respect the fundamentals of the state, the National Judicial Council has shown a respectable attitude, defending constitutional order against the temptations of executive power, defending the three divisions of power and standards in democratic countries. For this I would like to thank you on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u449	Thank you very much, sir. There are five people on the list of Members to ask a question. Would any of you like to sign up for this list? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first question to be asked. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the president, first of all, does he know such a website: a list of judges embezzling the ethics of the profession of lawyer? Has this list of judges in any way, which is publicly, I understand, presented, been the subject of analysis by the National Judicial Council? On this basis, I wanted to ask you how many cases the National Judicial Council dealt with, if the judges embezzled the ethics of the profession, they broke the law. I would ask you to provide statistical data, as well as to provide today, here, some examples of penalties against these judges who have been radically and brutally violating the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u451	Mr Rafał Grupiński, Law and Justice. Sorry, Civic Platform. It's fatigue, sir, I would never say that if I weren't tired. [[That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I wanted to ask not only the question of how to address the president with such a brief reflection on what had been in force in Poland since 1430, i.e. the separation of the executive authority, then the royal authority, from the judicial authority. Thanks to the privileges of the kind of nemine captivabimus, which also embraced the townspeople of the royal cities, one must add, at a later time, simply the influence of the rulers on the decisions of the court was limited to the maximum. I understand that the KRS is defending this chapter today, and I am personally for it, and I think that my entire political community is grateful. What Law and Justice are trying to introduce, unfortunately, I think, should not be the subject of consultation with Prime Minister Orbán in Niedzica, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only directly should Mr Jarosław Kaczyński consult with President Putin on this matter. I think that's where all these suggestions come from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u453	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u454	Dear Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'd like to ask you what the punishments are for the judges. Is it true that when an ordinary citizen steals a sausage, he gets a ticket, and if a judge does, he gets kicked out of the job, expelled from it? Is that a draconian punishment for judges? At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all these judges, all these Members, especially the citizens who have defended the independence of the judge during this year - independence and freedom in this connection, ladies and gentlemen, because without judicial independence there is no free Poland, there is no free democracy, there is no democracy at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u455	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u456	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Few Members! High Izbo! I have a question for the President as to whether Minister Zbigniew Ziobro participated in the work of the National Judicial Council at all, since he participated in the article. 187 of the Constitution we read that it consists of the President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the person appointed by the President of the Republic. I would therefore like to know exactly how many times the Minister of Justice has attended the meetings, how many times he has not attended, and whether the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro has ever been seen with this beautiful book called the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u457	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u458	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the attitude that has been extremely worthy, patriotic, for this defence for the last year of independence and independence of judges. Good luck with that. I wanted to ask you how many times the Minister of Justice has been in meetings and whether he was as present as he was today in these benches. And second question: why do we have 750 unannounced jobs? According to our calculations, the judge runs about 200 cases a year, after multiplying we have about 150,000. cases that judges can't decide because they just don't exist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what citizens are losing. Who's responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u459	Thank you very much. To this and to previous questions, please answer Mr Dariusz Zawistowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u460	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I've been trying to write down these questions. I understand that Mr Jachnik also included a few points in his speech, so I will try to address this. With regard to the way the Council cooperates, there seems to be no organisational change here that would hinder cooperation in the Council. Parliamentarians shall be appointed as before to teams working in the Council shall be notified of the dates of their meetings. Indeed, sometimes the Council and Parliament meetings coincide, but I would like to stress that in cases where parliamentarians have formally asked, for example. to postpone the date of the meeting or to change the date of the meeting so that they can attend the meeting of the Council when they consider it particularly important, such requests have been taken into account. These doubts that have been raised here probably relate to the outcome of the vote in the Council, but in the collegial body the principle of majority voting is decided, and it seems to me that cooperation in the Council should not be limited to the very stage of voting, but there should be a discussion, a dialogue at the stage preceding the adoption of a specific resolution. There's never any restrictions here. We try to convince each other and this assessment, which is carried out by the National Judicial Council, is always of a substantive nature in my view, regardless of whether it relates to personal issues or not. Here I can say, for example, that they happen. such reservations that candidates for judicial positions are generally too young. But we have to remember that the criteria are set by the law and they are not particularly young today, because if we consider the duration of legal education including the application, those candidates who come from among referenda or assistants are now, at the time of their first appointment to the judicial position, about 32 and 33 years old, so this is not exactly the age of young people. The situation may now change as a large proportion of the posts will be provided for the assessors. Indeed, in the case of assesura, this age may be lower, but in turn when called to a judicial position it will certainly not be too young people. There are reservations, for example. the nature that the quality of these applications is assessed differently. There's a problem sometimes with these competitions when there's a judge, a prosecutor or a science worker in the competition. Here there may be discrepancies in the individual assessment of the candidate's predisposition, but it seems to me that this is no reason to claim that there are some bad practices in this area. It seems to me that this assessment was more related to the evaluation of draft laws which were addressed to the National Courts Council and in many cases were negatively assessed. But I wouldn't qualify it in any way so that it's a stand-up for the opposition or an attack on the government - the very fact that the bill has been negatively assessed. We make this assessment primarily from the point of view of the Constitution and the principle of the independence of the courts. If, in the assessment of the National Judicial Council, there is such a defect that the rule is unconstitutional or is contrary to the independence of the courts, then the statutory role of the National Judicial Council is to object to such solutions. Today, examples of laws on the Constitutional Court have already been cited, which have been negatively assessed, whether laws on the system of common courts, or the law on the National Council of Courts, or the law on the Supreme Court. There are objective facts which indicate that these reservations, at least to a large extent, were justified, because this is also apparent from the case law of the Constitutional Court, and from the fact that, for example. Mr President vetoed two laws, too, so he also saw the flaws of a fundamental nature. There was also a question about the transparency of the procedure concerning the evaluation of candidates. I would like to confirm what I said at the committee meeting that we do not see any obstacles to transparency or, as it is said, transparency has been increased by the fact that e.g. the deliberations of the National Judicial Council will be transmitted, whether there will be public hearings of the candidates, whether it will be announced in a transparent manner as much as possible about the fact that the competition procedure is initiated for judicial positions. From the point of view of the National Judicial Council, there is no malice here. The point is that we have to carry out this process, this procedure in accordance with the rules, and the procedure is defined by the law and the regulation implementing the law, so here it is not up to the Council to take the initiative or how to solve this problem. We cannot enter into the Rules of Procedure before the Council to introduce provisions which will be contrary to the law or the regulation. We cannot decide for ourselves that this process of recognition of applications will look different from that of existing legislation. As far as disciplinary action is concerned, I may not have made myself clear enough. By giving this number of about 50 proceedings, which the National Judicial Council evaluates annually, I only referred to judgments of disciplinary courts, i.e. cases where disciplinary proceedings were initiated and the judge was convicted. On the other hand, disciplinary proceedings are, of course, being initiated more. They are first in the nature of investigations, as is the case by analogy with criminal proceedings at the stage when the prosecutor's proceedings are conducted. Only when the disciplinary officer's request for punishment is made is there a case in which substantive decisions are taken. There are, of course, fewer than disciplinary proceedings. I would also like to refer to the statement that the National Judicial Council has declared war from the point of view of the highest caste. Something similar was found in connection with judicial reform projects or laws on the National Judicial Council. I wouldn't judge it that way. I would like to stress that since the first draft law on the National Judicial Council came forward, which was submitted under the motto of democratisation of the choice of members of the National Judicial Council as judges, the National Judicial Council has never taken the position that it is against changing the choice of judges to the board. I would remind you that this first concept - it was a government project - assumed that judges would be elected to the council, but in the general election. We didn't question that idea. We also said that legal solutions can be introduced, which will reserve a larger number of e.g. judges of regional courts in the Council, because it was also one of the charges that the representation of judges in the Council is not perfect, because there are not enough judges of regional courts elected to the council. We only protested against a specific way of choosing those electoral districts which were completely illegible, for example, because it could be said that these districts were offered about as much as there are appeals courts, but in such a district involving Szczecin there would be judges, for example. from the Legnica district and the Jelenio Góra district - this is what the project assumed - and from the Lower Silesia appeal, to which these districts normally belong, they would be excluded, and instead the Kaliski district would be connected from the Poznań appeal. So it was something that was completely incomprehensible, and we protested against such a solution that did not refer to any objective criteria. We said there must be some objective reasons for possibly changing these electoral districts. With regard to the number of judges who embezzled the principle of independence, today I cannot say what the number was. Unfortunately, this would require checking the documents that are in the National Judicial Council. The loudest example, which is often referred to here, and which I can say was that this was the case, is a matter, I will remind you, Judge Milewski, a case, as it is said graphically, of a judge on the phone. I would like to say that the accusations concerning Judge Milewski are often not sufficiently precise, because it is said in the context of this case that it would be a judge who was prepared to issue a judgment on behalf of the order. Here, such circumstances have never been established. In this case, it was about changing the date of the meeting. And let us remind you that this was not a real problem, it was a media attempt to influence this judge or assess his behaviour. The reaction was such that disciplinary action was initiated against him. He was found guilty because of such behaviour and vulnerability to these influences and was punished with disciplinary punishment in the form of a transfer to another judicial district. From what I remember, I think it was Bialystok. I think it was in Bialystok. It would also require emphasis here that it is in the hierarchy of disciplinary penalties that is the highest penalty before expulsion from the judicial service, so it can certainly not be treated as a mild punishment. The next question concerned the understanding or functioning of a democratic state such as the principle of separation of authorities. Here, of course, the National Judicial Council is fully aware of the importance of this principle and we are always opposed to such solutions as would lead to the imbalance of the authorities. It was mentioned here that the National Council of the Court of Justice challenged the Constitutional Tribunal's law on the system of common courts. In 2016, this was a fundamental issue for us. Here, among many of the various allegations found in this proposal, it was emphasized above all that, after the merger of the functions of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, the structure of the system is defective, which assumes that the Minister and the Prosecutor General exercise administrative supervision of the courts. So it seems to me that this was a very clear signal showing how much importance the National Judicial Council places on this principle of separation of authorities. As regards the question, which also concerns disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary penalties, I would like to stress that disciplinary action is now a fully transparent procedure. It is governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure. Not everyone is aware that any person concerned may attend the trial before the disciplinary court of the first and second instance. In practice, there is no special social interest in these proceedings, but it is, of course, possible. All disciplinary decisions given by the Supreme Court shall be published in special collections, such annual ones, so that the justifications of those decisions which have taken place may also be fully taken into account. So from this point of view, I don't see any need for fundamental changes here. Of course, one can imagine the idea of changing this model of disciplinary action. Now there will certainly be a lively topic of the Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court and the participation of the so-called. a folk factor in disciplinary proceedings. Here you can accept different legal solutions. I would just like to stress that the international standard is that jurors should not sit in the disciplinary court of the second instance, but I have not met with any factual, substantive assessment of disciplinary action in a currently functioning model which would indicate that it is functioning in some way incorrect. Do courts impose severe disciplinary penalties? It depends, of course, on the nature of the case. As I said before, traffic violations and late drafting of justifications dominate. In the case of such offences, reprimands are usually imposed, while in the case of more serious disciplinary offences also the penalty of expulsion from the judicial service. So it's not as common as it is thought that judges always protect judges, and their wrong conduct never comes with such a reaction that they are removed from the service. I wouldn't want to make... [[Don't be shy.]] No, no, I mean, I don't want to bring up false statistics, but it seems to me that over the last three to four years, I think 12 judges have been expelled from the service, so these disciplinary decisions of the strictest were not so little. In the case of criminal offences, it's basically a rule. The example of the theft of the sausage, which appeared, seems to be such an example on these banners. For this act, the judge was expelled from the service, and he was convicted in a criminal sentence. Today, probably the most well-known examples, which raise the most serious concerns, were the theft of the flash drive and this problem - I don't know how to say it in general - financial irregularities in the Court of Appeal in... [[In Cracow.]] ... Kraków, because this case is not explained, so it is difficult for me even here to tell you what specific charges will be. This was the reaction of a disciplinary court of such a nature that the immunity of the judge was immediately lifted and the disciplinary court agreed to conduct criminal proceedings. As far as I know, there is no indictment in the case of the theft of the flash drive so far, so here the problem is rather related to the prosecution's preparatory proceedings. There was no doubt on the part of the disciplinary court that these proceedings should be recognised in criminal proceedings. In these proceedings, it will be decided whether the judges have committed crimes and what kind of crimes. As regards the participation of the Minister of Justice in the meetings of the National Judicial Council, I have already mentioned that in 2016 the Minister was not once, this year also. He was at the 2015 National Judicial Council - I think twice, but I think I can say with great probability that no more than three. This was the stage when the laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal were being intensively worked on, and after the National Council had taken the position that these proposed solutions were not in line with the Constitution, the Minister of Justice had practically no longer appeared at the meeting of the National Judicial Council. When it comes to why there are no announcements about the vacancy of judges, what is the source of the fact that these announcements do not exist, it is of course difficult for me to answer this question, because I do not know what the Minister of Justice is guided by. On the other hand, in view of the actions that are being taken, it can be assumed that these posts for the regional courts were not intended to be filled in the current procedure because they were reserved for the judicial assessors, because after the changes made in the law and the adoption of the solution that the Minister of Justice would appoint the judicial assessors, this procedure was relatively quickly carried out. It is also connected, as we remember, with a change in the concept of assesura in general, because initially the rules were adopted in such a direction that the asessor was to be appointed identically as the judge, i.e. by the President and in the context of the competition procedure which is being conducted before the Council, while for at least a year now we have been announcing the amendment of the Act on the National Council of Courts, so it cannot be excluded that the Minister assumed that he would announce these vacant posts only when the new National Council of Courts will be in office. But, of course, I do not know any specific reasons why information about these posts has not been announced. This is where the number of 200 cases per judge came in a year. Honestly, I don't really know where it came from, because statistically, it's 1,500 cases per judge a year, and many judges have 1,000 cases in their papers, so this could be about district courts or appeals. In fact, there are many, many more. So much for the questions I've been able to write down. If there were no further questions, I would like to thank you, as parliamentarians, for your cooperation with the National Judicial Council, because I can certainly say that this was the last annual report I had the pleasure of submitting to Parliament. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr President, have they been seen together?]] Mr President, I have not followed this from this point of view. So once again, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u461	As I was holding the Sejm meeting at the moment, I could not speak, but Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz and my colleagues spoke on behalf of the club, presenting the position of the Modern Club, which I also belong to. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the report. Thank you for answering my questions. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm took note of information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 47th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that three Members have come forward to make their statements. Anyone else want to make a speech? I don't see any extra people. I'm closing the list. I invite the first Member, Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before us is another anniversary of the German collective crime in Kociewi in the Szpęgawski Forest, not far from Starogard. After the outbreak of World War II and the occupation of half of the pre-war territory of the Republic of Poland, Germany began to purify the Pomeranian corridor from the pre-war intelligence of Kociewi and Pomerania. Long before the outbreak of the war, proscription letters were prepared, which included representatives of intellectual elites: priests, teachers, independence activists, scouts, people of various states and professions. Their only fault was being Polish and Polish. At the crime scene, the Germans chose a private place in the Szpęgawski Forest belonging to the German Joachim von Paleske. They thought their crimes wouldn't come out. The German death factory worked from September 1939 until January 1940, when the mass executions of the leadership layers were stopped at Berlin's command. The first victims at the hour. 2 a.m. from 12 to 13 September became residents of the town of Starogard Gdański from ul. Gdansk, among them a young Boy Scout, friend of Józef Grzybek. The other victims were the priests of the catholic parishes from the Oldgarde and Tczewski districts. A special day was the peplińska Sunday, 16 October 1939, when the Germans shot in Szpęgawsk the entire chapter of the diocese of Chelm and the professorship of the Higher Seminary in Pelplin. They systematically arrested local priests at the rectory and brought them first to the old-garde prison, to Baszta Gdanska, and from 19 September, after the murder of local Jews, also to the synagogue. In the Szpęgawski Forest, the road Izbo, the Germans murdered over 7 thousand. Poles. The intention of the German invader about this part of the Republic was to erase from the collective memory and awareness of Poles that they were Poles and that Poland was also in Pomerania. High Izbo! It's been 78 years since those tragic events. We, people living here and now, have a moral duty to cherish the memory of our compatriots who gave their lives for Poland, sometimes very young. Among them were representatives of various professions, many outstanding specialists who successfully built the Second Republic. If they were not murdered, the economy would develop in Poland, and bold and innovative technologies would be implemented. This means that our country could be in a completely different place today, in every way. Instead of moving forward, we had to build the state again, with all its aspects. It is therefore reasonable today to address the topic of war reparations from Germany towards Poland. In the '60s. ZBOWiD published a book entitled.Szpęgawsk, which contains a list of victims, incomplete. It would be useful to commemorate the victims who managed to identify them and to dedicate their separate publication to them, and the published list of victims of German crimes on the Polish nation would be treated as an exit cesarea, with the intention of systematically supplementing them. Witnesses, men of war and occupation are leaving us. Let us not miss this last moment when there is still a chance to do something good for the families of the victims, and also to preserve this memory for present and future generations. As a member of the old-garde land, I will take action to create an exhibition here, in the territory of the Polish Parliament, dedicated to the victims of the German assassination of Kociewi's intelligence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u463	I would like to ask the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, and thank you to Mr Jan Kilian for his smooth presentation of the statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u464	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! How important are small things, gestures, small signs, we all know. For patients struggling with lymphoma, small things and small signs take on great importance. Little things make a big difference. Today we are celebrating the World Day of Knowledge about Lymphomas. Lymphoma is the most common haematological tumour. It can occur at any age, but it is definitely more common in people over 50 years of age. Due to the ageing population, the number of new diagnosiss of lymphoma is constantly and significantly increasing. Lymphoma disease accounts for approx. 2% Get all the cancers. The rapid and correct diagnosis of lymphoma and the implementation of proper, radical oncology treatment give patients the best chance of successful recovery. The initial diagnosis can be made after simple diagnostic tests. A lot can say blood count and OB. Other laboratory tests should also be performed (e.g. Liver enzymes, urea, creatinine, sugar levels). So, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal from this place to everyone: let's examine ourselves. A certain anecdote I will quote from the life taken. Well, prof. Juszczyk's outstanding hematologist asks the patient when he was last on the study, such a basic, complete blood count, liver enzymes, etc. Patient says, "Well, a long time ago, Professor." So the professor asks, do you have a car? Well, I do, but I don't understand the context of the question. Well, since you have a car, you have to do mandatory technical tests once a year, don't you? Oh, yeah, that's right. But I still don't get it. Sir, he's speaking to a patient then, if you've had a physical in the past year, the chances of getting you out of a serious illness would be much better, and yes, you don't know. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point I would like to thank two associations: the Association of Friends of Lymphoma-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Hydroniak-Friends-Eye Association for joining the World Day of Knowledge about Lymphoma. Thank you all very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u465	Thank you very much, sir. I also agree with this appeal: let us examine ourselves as often as possible. And now I ask Mr Bogdan Rzonca, the Law and Justice Club, for a statement from the Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lively debate on war reparations is taking place in Poland. I wanted to remind you of one extraordinary event, very dramatic for the city in which I live. Well, on September 13, 1944, Walter Gentz, a German governor, ordered the mining and destruction of Jasel. Of the more than 1,200 buildings that existed at the time in Jasl, after 3 months of demolition, conscious demolition, 40 were left. The 15 thousandth city ceased to exist, the inhabitants were displaced. The losses were later estimated at about 70 million PLN before the war. Today, when we talk about war reparations, we mention that event, because the destruction of Jasł was not the result of intentional warfare, but was just conscious of the destruction of the city. This state of affairs causes that today we should show this event, this dramatic event to our neighbours, the Germans, to remember how German executioners did not only with people, but also with the architecture of different kinds of cities. The example of the destroyed Jasł is also visible in documents, descriptions and various publications. Anyone who doubts the meaning of talking about reparations should look at these publications and know that war activities always carry drama, both human and material. In Jasła's case there was another drama - conscious destruction of the city in 97%. I recall this incident and that time just to show that all those people who question any conversation about war and material losses, about the need to make amends to cities like Jaslo, are simply in a great and cruel error. I hope they come out of that mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-15-sejm-47-4.u467	I also thank you for this statement. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 47th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 48th session of the Sejm, convened for 27, 28 and 29 September 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 25]]
