ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u1	I open the 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I will appoint Senator Aleksandr Swed and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Mr. Senators, please take your seats. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 40th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. High Izbo, I inform you that on 10 October 2017, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016, it is included in print No 622. On 18 October 2017, I sent a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting on 25 October 2017 and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 8 November 2017 took note of and informed me of this. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, eighth and twelfth items of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see, I can't hear. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017 and considering this point as the first point; the Act amending the Law on special arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 and considering it as the second point; the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and consider this point as the fifth point; the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and considering this point as the sixth point; the Act amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of innovative activities and consider it as point seven; second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic and the law on driving vehicles and consider it as point fourteen; second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and consider this point as point 18th. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. The State of Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of points: the Act amending the Act after the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017; the Act amending the Excise Tax Act and the Law on the Organisation of Certain Agricultural Markets and consider this point as the fourth point, i.e. after the Tax Order Act. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? There are no volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen, an hour's adjournment will be ordered today at 12.00. Tomorrow, we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m. with a resolution on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Ignacy Mościcki. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. At 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be ordered to open the exhibition, always a new hungry person, like a crane with a neck in the future drawn out. These are the words of Boleslaw Leśmian. After the break, we will proceed with the resolution on the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. I would like to inform you that we will proceed with the review of the Civil Records Act tomorrow. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 644, and the report of the Commission In print No 644 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its 100-sixth meeting examined the law on amending the Budget Law for 2017. The committee's report is contained in print No 644 A. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Because at our meeting today we will consider separately 2 laws: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017 and the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, which describes in very detail how the appropriations are used, which are included in the budget, I will allow myself to close my report here. To a wider extent, I will refer to the work of the committee at the second item of our meeting when we are discussing these specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. In addition, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances at its meeting examined both of these laws together. Therefore, my request is that I should be able to present the essential part of the report on this second item, because in some sense... [[Not in total, but later. Yes? Second point.]] Later, later. [[I see. There will be no joint debate because there was no such conclusion.]] Yes, there was no request for a joint debate... [[Okay.]] ...but let me put the whole argument in the next item. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[Senator Rulewski.]] Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u4	Mr President, in both projects there is a proposal to finance from the budget, i.e. from all taxpayers, the national media with the amount of... probably about PLN 1 billion. I'm asking you if the committee This is particularly true of you, and has made every effort to ensure that this morbid situation, first of all, that not everyone pays, and secondly that others pay for others, is interrupted. Don't you think that after two years, there's still no way that this situation will end? And it actually undermines the constitutional order in Poland, because it indicates that they are better and better, causing a very low level of... [[Time.]] ...national media with which other commercial media compete effectively. So, once again, have you added, you and the members of the committee who have probably voted on this proposal, sufficient urgency in the management of public funds? [[Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u5	Wait a minute, let's see, Mr. Senator... Are there any other questions for the president? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u6	Thank you very much. The Act includes PLN 980 million to be transferred to the National Radio and Television Council for distribution in proportion to national media, i.e. television and radio, as compensation for lost subscription revenues due to the regulations adopted by the Sejm in 2 laws: in the Act of 2010, if I see the dates well, and in the Act of 2008. The Sejm expanded the list of persons exempt from the payment of the subscription, which was such an action. So let me remind you that this exemption from subscription fees applies to persons who have received a special allowance, to persons who are over 60 years of age and who are entitled to a pension which does not exceed 50% per month the average monthly salary, the persons who are entitled to cash benefits under the Social Assistance Act, shall meet the income criteria set out in the Family Benefits Act, the unemployed, the persons entitled to a pre-retirement allowance or to a pre-retirement benefit and the persons who receive the caretaker's allowance. It's a very wide group of people, expanding. Public media lost their subscription revenue in 2010 and estimated at PLN 980 million in 2017. This represents the payment of the obligation of an existing hidden obligation, but an existing obligation, to compensate the public media for the lost proceeds from the subscription so that these media can carry out their mission. As regards the law amending the subscription fee, this issue was not discussed during the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u7	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u8	I repeat the question: in particular, do you, Mr President and the members of the committee who voted on this solution, place sufficient urgency in the control of public authorities, especially the Council of National Media, reaching out for the money of all taxpayers? What you've been telling is a story many years ago, because then all sorts of reliefs were made. In the past year and a half, perhaps, no relief has been granted. And second question. Was this urgency also a matter of controlling national media in order to stop this phenomenon? [[Well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u9	Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Are there any more questions for the president? [[And Senator Augustine...]] Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u10	I wasn't part of this committee meeting. Did you speak at this committee meeting as long as the public media deficit under the new governments has increased? After all, let us not be fooled, the main reason for this change is that the new television board is not dealing with its finances because of the loss of viewers and advertisers. That's the real reason. Did you talk about how much the deficit has increased, how much money is needed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Probier. You're welcome. [[I just want to correct and clarify some information. There was talk of the government reaching for taxpayers' money...]] But that's what we do in a different formula, Mr. Senator. Now we're asking questions. What mode are you in? [[That's what I'm talking about.]] It's a different mode. What's the mode? [[Then let me ask you a question. Is the truth...]] It could be correction mode, you know, we're open very... Yeah, but the mode has to be right. [[It's a correction mode.]] Correct or question? [[Corrigendum.]] Corrigendum. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u12	I would like to point out that the government does not draw money from all taxpayers, because according to the information I have, only 13% subscribers pay a subscription for Polish Radio. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u13	Thank you very much. Now... [[Senator Rulewski still reporting.]] More, Mr. Senator? [[Yeah, but another question.]] All right. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u14	So that Mr President can answer in an organized manner... Is it true that the increased budget cost and all taxpayers' funds are intended to finance the local government campaign that will take place next year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. I think, Senator, that Senator Bierecki answers questions in a very organized way. [[No, I didn't...]] Yeah, he answers, he answers. In my opinion, in a very organized way. Well, I have that grade. [[We can talk about this.]] I'd like that very much, Senator. However, I must draw the senator's attention to the fact that the Committee on Budget and Public Finance of the Senate of the Republic of Poland has no control powers. So that, Senator, your question goes beyond the scope of this law and beyond the scope of the committee. But the senator can handle it. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry I commented, but I couldn't help myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u16	Thank you very much. Well, in order for the message and the agreement to be complete, we need to organize both sides and be ready to communicate. I am trying very hard to provide the senator with full information, but I am the rapporteur of the committee meeting, not the rapporteur of the project. This is a government project, as I mentioned in the explanatory statement, at the beginning of my speech. There is a minister present among us who presented this proposal perfectly and competently at the meeting of our committee, so please keep some questions for the Minister as well. With regard to this deficit of television finances, this issue was not discussed, we did not have data on specific periods, but during the committee meeting the senators noticed that this loss of funds in public media relates to the low downloadability of the subscription, which also has its origins in the activities of the previous authorities. After all, we all remember Prime Minister Tusk's historic appeal not to pay for the public media so as not to pay the subscription. He called for this disobedience, and therefore this gap in finance in some sense is caused by its actions, but also by the assurances that the governing camp at that time represented that the issue of broadcasting subscription would be changed, that these provisions would be amended. These provisions have not been amended. I remember that in my previous term of office I'm going to say this outside of the report. I myself submitted a bill which was intended to ensure that the people covered by the licence exemption were not subject to bail-out due to formal misconduct, which was irrelevant to the fact that they were exempt from this charge. Let me remind you that people over the age of seventy-five were prosecuted because of a failure to inform the Polish Post Office of the fact that they had completed the age of seventy-five, although this is, I would say, visible in the issue of PESEL. Right? The bailiffs, who downloaded more than PLN 2,000 from seventy-five-year-olds plus, from 75-plus people, led to an incredible ruin for those people who barely made ends meet. We presented the relevant bill during the previous term, I myself was his applicant, unfortunately, that was the end of it, as I remember. So we are looking forward to the project announced by the government on subscription changes. I hope that soon we will be able to deal with this, because indeed the way of downloading this subscription is all this We know. It's archaic. That's what I'd call it. It's archaic. He is the result of another organization of society, which was still in the previous system. That's it. I said 980 million goes to the National Radio and Television Council. I'm just gonna have to straighten things out a little bit here, 'cause I'm sorry. Some of these measures... I'm gonna see what it is; I wanted to do it by discussing the budget bill, not the budget itself, which is why I needed a few more minutes to check it out. So some of the funds go to purchase property rights related to the resource which was held by Polish Recordings; now ownership of these works is owned by an foreign company. Part of this appropriation will also be used to purchase this. I hope the Minister, if I'm wrong, will give the right amounts here and correct it. In any case, this is also an important task that we can do, restoring the Polish state's power over an important set of works, which we all would like to use. What else do we have? Local government campaign. The senator asked... If that was the case, Senator, you should immediately inform the prosecutor's office, or at least the PKW, the State Election Commission, that any illegal activities are being carried out or being prepared. These measures are certainly not described in the budget or in the around budget law. If you have any evidence of what you've been saying, we're asking you to forward the notification as soon as possible, because this... [[I don't rule out...]] I don't have that kind of knowledge. For me, it's a matter of probation, that information is a matter of probation, but if the senator has evidence, then let him present it. So many of my answers. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u18	Mr. Senator, but the frequency surveys of the public opposition parties and the PiS show that there is a difference of several percent in favour of the PiS, so there was some justification for Senator Rulewski's question. But I want to ask you about the legal basis for this compensation. Because it's compensation, you said for what, and so on. . granted from the State budget for independent public television. What was the legal basis for this decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u19	Please, Mr. Senator. You're welcome. [[Okay, I thought there was gonna be a Question Time, but this...]] I don't think there are any more questions for the president. [[Oh, there's no more.]] I'm asking for an answer. And we'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u20	It can be said that those legislative changes that have been made in the past were not in line with the principles of law-making. The assessment of the impact of the regulation on these changes was flawed and did not take into account the loss of resources for public media. I.e. every time the exemptions adopted by the Sejm were not correctly calculated, nor was compensation in the budget of these public media due to the loss of these funds. Of course, you can imagine that the State reduces subscription revenues, but after all, the tasks performed by public media and their budget are permanent, so the loss resulting from the adoption of the law must be compensated. This hasn't happened in the last seven years. There was no such compensation, there was no public media subsidy in the budget due to the exemption of some citizens from the obligation to pay a subscription fee and this commitment increased. You could imagine that an effective investigation of these lost resources... However, there is no need for the public media, which I will remind you, as companies, to sue the Treasury for the lost funds in 2010 and 2017... There is no need to apply such a solution to this problem: the funds that are in the budget and which result from the very favourable circumstances for our country are the result of government policy... I would like to point out that, for the first time, we are dealing with a situation in which amending the budget does not mean increasing the deficit, as it was in previous years, when Minister Rostowski came after the budget changes during the year, in the autumn. Yes? This is due to an increase in the envelope available under this budget. The deficit is not increased, we have excellent proceeds to the Social Insurance Fund due to the fall in unemployment. More people got a job, more people can pay contributions to ZUS, so there is no need to allocate such a grant to the Social Insurance Fund as it was designed. We take advantage of the good times and settle old debts. The biggest debt is, of course, a commitment to hundreds of thousands of miners, who successfully made commitments from the Polish state on a judicial basis. The miners do not have to sue the Polish state. This commitment, which exists and stems from the employment of these miners, not from any privilege, stays... After all, we have passed a law not so long ago on this matter, and now we are providing sufficient resources to finance it. In some sense, we have a historic moment, because for the first time the amendment is not about increasing the deficit, but about paying back existing commitments, and also about taking new actions that I will talk about while working on the next point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal wants to ask you another question, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u22	Yeah, 'cause I want to be specific about that question. When I asked you about the legal basis, I meant, was there a court order, a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Because as far as the miners are concerned, there's been a lot of court judgments that gave such grounds. Was there a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal or a judgment of the General Court which required 900 million to be paid to public television?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u23	I have no information about such judgments and this was not discussed at the meeting. Perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that question by indicating the relevant court orders. I do not have this information and neither did the committee obtain it during its meeting. [[I'm gonna ask that question, Marshal, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u24	Okay, thank you very much. I don't see any more questions for the senator. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Teresa Czerwińska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Yes.]] You're welcome. Earlier, however, I would like to welcome Minister Adam Hamryszczak, Minister of Science and Higher Education Sebastian Skuza, Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Minister Katarzyna Głowala from the Ministry of Health, Minister Joanna Wronecka from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Jacek Czaputowicz from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation of Minister Grzegorz Witkowski from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Kazimierz Smolinski from the Ministry of Energy of Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski and from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Renata Szczech. Now the floor is for Minister Teresa Czerwinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about 2 laws, if your Marshal allows, i.e. the Act on amending the Budget Act for 2017 and the Act on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's draft amendment to the Budget Act for the current year assumes, first of all, that the basic figures that were included in the Budget Act for 2017 will remain unchanged. The revenue of the state budget amounts to PLN 325 billion 428 million and the expenditure of the state budget amounts to PLN 2 000. is the amount of PLN 384 billion 773 million 502 thousand. The deficit of the state budget remains unchanged, or PLN 59 billion 345 million 500 000. I would like to stress that the amendment to the budget law is exceptional, limited in nature. We are only making changes in the structure of expenditure here. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike other amendments we have seen in previous years, e.g. in 2013, when the main trigger for its implementation was clearly weaker than the initial economic outlook, or in 2015, when the need for change was due to significant government budget deficits. The amendment proposed in the project does not involve a revision of the income side and, as I have already pointed out at the outset, does not require an increase in the deficit level originally established in the Budget Act for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the current reporting data, the accounts for the implementation of the State budget indicate that expenditure is significantly lower than that laid down in the Budget Act throughout this year. I would call them savings, which are primarily due to the very good situation in the labour market, as mentioned by the rapporteur. It translates into an increase in social security contributions. It is enough to mention here that over the period of 3 quarters of this year, the income from contributions to the Social Insurance Fund amounted to PLN 123.8 billion, which means more than 8% increase compared to the revenue from the previous year. Thus, the need for a complementary grant from the State budget is lower. The Social Insurance Fund already reported a blockage in September this year, which is about PLN 4 billion 50 million in accordance with Article. 177 Public Finance Act. Another very important amount that appears here in terms of saving items is related to the lower implementation of the European Union budget in 2016 and the fact that the contributions of all the Member States of the European Union due for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, if we add up the 2 titles I have mentioned, we will see that we are dealing with savings of PLN 6.4 billion. In addition, it should be mentioned that, in the course of the implementation of the budget of the authorising officers, the principles of the financial economy, i.e. the principles of sound management of public funds, are in force in the course of the implementation of the budget of the authorising officers, with the best results from the expenditure incurred. Therefore, every year there are natural savings in the budget, linked precisely to those rational behaviours of the contributors that I have just mentioned. For this reason, we also have savings that allowed us to change the structure of expenditure. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say about this site... I told you where the savings are, what are the sources, what are the reasons and possibilities for changing the structure of expenditure. Now I would like to briefly provide information about these increases, which is what these funds, which are the result of savings, will be allocated to. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this amendment, the expenditure limit will be increased in part by a total amount of more than PLN 3.2 billion. In this way, the funds for implementation signed on 23 October will be secured. by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Law on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and payment will be ensured by the end of this year. 900 million PLN under this amount is the amount which will be allocated to restructuring operations in the mining sector. The next amount of measures envisaged is PLN 1.9 billion in total for the purchase and entry of shares in the increased share capital of commercial law companies, in which ownership rights are exercised by the Minister responsible for. the economy. These expenses concern the Polish Development Fund and the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. Here I would like to stress that both these two items and the next item I will mention, i.e. the capital injection of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego by PLN 1.5 billion, are strictly investment, i.e. those which, first of all, support actions in the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy, and second of all, are funds which will be used primarily for investment activities in the area of infrastructure, research or investment support outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. Another is the increase in expenditure in part 24, namely the increase in expenditure on culture by PLN 1.2 billion... I would like to mention a few items. Except for the one that's already resonated here, i.e. I would like to mention the other ones that did not sound out here. Namely, these are: the financing of audiovisual production, the creation of a research centre, which will deal with historical research and the dissemination of knowledge about Polish history with particular regard to the European and global context, the purchase of ownership rights in the catalogue of Polish recordings, the purchase of a historical object at ul. Siennej 60 for the purposes of the Warsaw ghetto museum, the purchase of the Lubomirski Palace in Lublin for the purpose of the building of the created Museum of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, about... I don't want to list all the items because these materials were delivered to you earlier. In addition, however, the amount of PLN 88 million appears here. These are measures to equip health prevention offices, in connection with the Law on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of health care services, as a complement to existing special provisions, because the Act, so-called. a special law on special solutions that has been adopted this year... We want these measures to be spent in the long term, hence this heading concerning 88 million PLN appears here, in order to enable the implementation of the provisions of this law. The amount that has so far been spent on health prevention offices in schools is PLN 45 million, so here is this additional amount, up to PLN 134 million. Moreover, due to the need to pay increased contributions to international organisations, expenditure limits in parts of foreign affairs and agriculture were increased by a total amount of PLN 211 million. And there is also PLN 3.6 million for aid for foreigners, among others. for payment of cash benefits, provision of medical care, accommodation, board in rented by the Office for Foreigners of the Centres. The last item I would like to mention is the transfer of expenditure in the amount of PLN 140 million from part 15 of the General Court to part 88 of the General Court's Office for the acquisition of the seat of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, if your Marshal permits, I would like to give the High House a few words of clarification as to the amendment of the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, which is an integral and inseparable part of the proposed amendment to the Budget Act for 2017. Here, too, I would like to mention some important elements of this project. Namely in the article. 1 which provides for the transfer of compensation to the National Radio and Television Council for the loss of revenue from subscription fees in 2010 and 2017, the draft provides that compensation will be transferred from the State budget to part 24, i.e. to the part to which the Minister for Culture and the Protection of National Heritage is responsible. Later, the authorising officer will transfer it to the National Radio and Television Council for a separate bill, which is affected by subscription fees. And this amount will be allocated, distributed in accordance with the regulations in force by the National Council of Radio and Television, as well as the subscription fees that affect there, exclusively on the implementation by public broadcasting units of a public service mission, up to the costs incurred in carrying out this mission. Another solution that appears in the so-called. the around budget law, that is to make the financial economy of the Minister of Energy more flexible. This is where I replaced two positions. The proposed provisions are designed not only to ensure the payment of compensation for the permanent loss of the right to free coal, but also to enable the Energy Minister to carry out restructuring activities in accordance with his plans in this regard. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the proposals contained in the Around Budget Act, it is envisaged to create a special reserve to increase the maximum limit for State budget expenditure for the implementation of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children, to implement the educational allowance and to add to the flat-rate amount referred to in the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, and to implement the Law of 5 December 2014 on the Charter of the Large Family. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments, the solutions proposed in the Around Budget Act are dictated by the need to provide more resources, which results from the demand that has been made, for example, in the case of the Large Family Charter mentioned by me. Because it turns out that the measures that have been foreseen this year will not be sufficient for these tasks to be carried out. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a provision concerning the National Property Resource in the Law for specific solutions and implementation of the Budget Act. In view of the need to speed up the start of the implementation of tasks by the National Property Resources, the Act also provides for the creation and mobilisation of a special reserve for special and subjective grants for the National Property Resources. The Minister responsible for public finances shall allocate this reserve in accordance with the provision at the request of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and land-use and housing no later than 20 December this year. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, so many explanations on my part. Of course, I am at your disposal when it comes to questions and explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u26	Thank you very much, Minister, At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u27	Minister, I would like to repeat the question to which I have not received an answer from the rapporteur, Senator Bierecki. What is the legal basis for television compensation? Is there a judgment of the administrative court or of another court in this case, or is there a judgment of the Constitutional Court in this matter? What is the legal basis here? I'm asking you this because this is about transferring budget money to another institution, an independent institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator. Then you're Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u29	Thank you. Minister, I, too, on this matter, as if to continue with the Marshal's question. Let me put it this way: if the financing of public television from the budget were so simple, we wouldn't have a subscription, it would just be budget funding. What it is, it's coming from something. This is due both to Polish law and to certain international arrangements, EU rules, etc. I'd like you to speak with me. In addition to the legal bases for the transfer of public television money to the company Also to ensure that you have checked whether this transfer is compatible with European law and that this will not be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u31	Thank you. I repeat my question, which, as I noticed, you followed carefully, only now I am pressing charges in this question. Has the government shown sufficient urgency in terms of the possibility of introducing a full, solidarity-based public tribute over the past two years imposing equal obligations on all citizens in terms of subscription? Second question: does the government remember that there are two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal already under judicial supervision on the equalisation of the rights of persons with disabilities with regard to benefits? And the third question is: what will the government do with the anti-communist opposition reserve and the persecution, which is only 12% used in this reserve. And this is the third time?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u32	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u33	Thank you so much for these questions. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer questions about television, but Minister Lewandowski is also in the Chamber from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, so if your marshal will allow me, I will ask him to complete my speech as a representative of the government. So, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the payment of compensation and the transfer of compensation to the National Council of Radiophony and Television of PLN 980 million due to the loss of revenue from subscription fees and charges relating to exemptions, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the law we are discussing, i.e. the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 introduces this legal basis. Here is a provision which is a provision allowing budgetary resources to be transferred to implement precisely this type of compensation. As for the second part of the question, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I am not familiar with any court judgments that you are asking. It's the same with plans. I'm saying this to Senator Rulewski's question. In the area of persons with disabilities. As far as the subscription is concerned, I'd like to ask you to supplement Minister Lewandowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, maybe in a minute. We'll run out of questions for the Minister first... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Oh, sorry, just...]] ...and then we'll ask Minister Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u35	I'm sorry, sir, I missed the question that the senator asked me about not using the reserve, which was absolutely pointless. I would just like to draw the attention of the senator and the state to the fact that the provision of reserves is made at the request of the authorising officer. Therefore, with regard to the Minister of Finance, we distribute reserves in accordance with the Public Finance Act by 15 October. Of course, that is essentially the case, because there are reserves that are also distributed at a later date, but I am talking about the general principle that applies to this reserve. In this respect, these savings, whether not being disposed of, were simply due to lower demand. That's all I can say. As regards the purpose of the destination, all the remnants, all the savings that were in all reserves that could have been distributed by 15 October under the Public Finance Act, entered into the total amount of savings, which amounts to PLN 1 billion 879 million 417 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u36	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In total, all the changes that the Minister proposes, which the government proposes when it comes to austerity and all the other things, are changes in the amount of 9.4 billion, right? Because it didn't come here... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Yes.]] I think it went down at the committee meeting, and how well I noted... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Yes.]] Minister, the question is: could the Minister say a few words about what I asked you and what is very important? Namely, the point is that almost PLN 2 billion reduces spending from reserves. After all, the provisions concerning the implementation of the budget and tasks for 2017 were proposed by the government. These were not the reserves that were made during the debate, but those were the reserves proposed in the draft budget submitted by the government. What happened? What are the main obstacles to the fact that as much as 2 billion PLN is not being implemented when it comes to reserves? That's the first question. And the other. If not the Minister, maybe someone from the Ministry of Culture will answer. I am interested in the issue of expenditure related to audiovisual production and research institute. What are these tasks? What are the amounts? After all, we know that we now have a national foundation for which we are made up of PLN 100 million, a foundation which is to promote the good name of Poland outside the country. You spoke to the Minister about improving the image of Poland as well as the research institute. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you for a few words about this in relation to expenditure in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. You know, when it comes to the budget, it's always this. Not enough for expectations. But in recent weeks, we have experienced a painful, dramatic protest by resident doctors who are in a difficult situation. This threatens us to become a factory of well-educated doctors for Europe, because already 20% residents submit applications for travel abroad. I understand television, but it's not good, because it's a non-budget institution, but residents and interns are financed from the budget. The miners I'm trying to understand, although it's specific... But residents and interns are the ones who will treat us in the future. And there's nothing planned for them. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u41	Minister, there was no response from Senator Bierecki on the financial situation of the public media for which this compensation was foreseen... I say it's supposed to be compensation. Anyway, I'd like to ask you what the situation is. I'm particularly interested in the extent to which it's deteriorated because no one's denied it in the last two years. And do you think it's appropriate for you to pump public money into an institution such as this? The second question concerns education. Does the Ministry of Finance know what is the amount of unsatisfied claims for changes in education proposed by the government, submitted by local governments? And does the Ministry of Finance foresee a refund of this money? I am very often in the various municipalities of my district, especially in cities, and in each I hear that they spent a lot more money, applied to the Ministry for their return and did not get it. What is the scale of unsatisfied claims in this area, and why is there no proposal to complete them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u42	Thank you very much. I think that in this section on public media, we will redirect the question to Minister Lewandowski. Now I ask the Minister to answer the question. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal, one more request. I'd like to use the rules of procedure... [[You're welcome. I thought you were asking.]] ...which allows the chairman of the budget committee to express himself. [[There you go. Of course.]] I would very much like to ask Senator Augustine to cancel his statement on the mismanagement of the public media, because this is an accusation of a crime that the Senator has specified in the debate at the moment. [[Oh, a statement, not a charge.]] [[Oh, come on.]] [[The charge is, in writing, to the D.A.'s office...]] If it has information about the mismanagement The mismanagement is criminal, it's a crime. It should either submit a notification or withdraw from that statement, in my opinion, as I do not have such information completely unauthorised. I would like to ask the Senators of the Platform to speak in this debate without any comment. Thank you very much. [[Censor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. [[It was an evaluation, not a speech.]] Thank you very much. Minister, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u45	Thank you very much for your questions. I will respond to those questions that strictly concern the budget. First, Senator Czarnobaj's question about the reserves. Dear Senator, in terms of reserves, indeed, reserves are a flexible instrument for planning and implementing the budget. Indeed, the level of reserves planned and the level of reserves made, year by year, regardless of what year we would have taken, will always be different. So here, I wouldn't see anything inappropriate in a deviation from the plan. That's another line. As far as the planned reserves and reserves are concerned, I actually said that the level of savings, i.e. the default of reserves, was over PLN 1 billion 800 million. In this, look at this, reserve five, which is the financing of tasks in the hard coal mining sector. I don't want to quote the whole thing here. This is over PLN 1 billion. So if we subtract from this 1 billion 800 million zlotys this 1 billion zloty from reserve five, it turns out that the remaining reserves... Really, I find the level of performance to be generally satisfactory. And the statement that maybe there were some gaps in the planning of the reserves, that they should be... at least I understood your senator that these reserves may have been planned in a way, I would say, unsuitable. And what I'm saying here is that if we take the statistics and the series from previous years, we'll see that there's actually no year where the savings on reserves would be lower than in the current year. So... Well, I don't want to quote data from individual years here, but if we take savings on both the budget parts and the reserves themselves, we'll see that this is on average around PLN 2.5 billion to PLN 3 billion. So that here, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like a proper message from my side. As far as reserves are concerned, this is natural savings. She very often, year by year, shows up. And the statistics we have at our disposal confirm that. These savings that I mentioned at the beginning, i.e. the lower demand for a supplementary grant to the Social Insurance Fund, or the reimbursement of the overpaid contribution, in connection with the lower implementation of the European Union budget, are the extra-ordinary savings that emerged this year. And savings from reserves are natural savings. So here I don't see any reason to worry or any other threat. As for the questions concerning the financial situation of television and the others, as I said, I would ask the Minister to complete my statement. And when it comes to residents, because I wrote this question down here, I see Minister Katarzyna Głowalę in the Chamber and I would very much ask her to address it in such a more extensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I must announce a recess... [[But before the recess, Mrs. Marshal...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal, the Minister, because my name came up and it was suggested... I absolutely, Madam Minister, do not make critical remarks regarding the fact that a certain plan relating to the special reserves is not being implemented. This is, as the Minister said, a natural thing. But I said it in such a context... Because in the debate, I will quote the statements of the Senators of Law and Justice regarding the non-fulfilment of reserves, so that the Minister will listen to the position of Law and Justice in the non-fulfilment of reserves. I, on the other hand, share the Minister's view that the reserve that was planned and not implemented for various reasons is better not to be implemented... [[Mr. Senator, now is the time to ask questions...]] ...destining her to another task.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u48	Good. Are there any more questions for the Minister? If so, after the break. They are, aren't they? Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister at this moment, but we will return to asking the Minister's questions, as well as the other ministers, at 1 p.m., because I am now announcing a break at the request of the Civic Platform Club. Dismissed until 1 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u49	We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017. We continue to ask the Government representative questions about this item on the agenda. Questions to Minister Lewandowski... [[We were supposed to finish the questions with the Minister. Senator Zdrojewska's question...]] Oh, we'll finish the questions with the Minister. Mrs. Zdrojewska's question... [[There was no answer to mine.]] Politely, let's continue. We're talking about Minister Lewandowski, who must leave us at some point. Yes or no? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No.]] No? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Good. It's Mrs. Czerwinska... [[Mrs. Zdrojewska.]] Mrs. Zdrojewska... [[I mean, I'm still gonna ask the Minister a question. But, of course, if the Minister is...]] [[There hasn't been an answer to my question yet.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: There was a break.]] [[Yeah, there was a break.]] [[Well, here you go.]] Do you want the senator to repeat it? [[The voice from the hall: The trailer of the answer was...]] [[I'm sorry, but who's to say?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Maybe a question and together...]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine. [[I already asked a question that I didn't get an answer to because there was a break.]] Are you... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: I mean, I can answer right away, and I can answer questions together...]] There you go, you can answer right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, but this lack of answers was simply due to the time-out, so that, of course, Mr. Senator, I have your question noted, if I miss anything, please do so. I wrote it down... Part of the questions concerned the financial situation of public media, and I understand that Minister Lewandowski will answer these questions. The senator's second question concerned the financial implications of the education reform and the lack of taking into account these financial consequences, if I have correctly written them down, in the budget, so as to include compensation. Well, Mr. Senator, I can say, as regards the answers that may have been invoked by the senator here, for local government units, indeed some local government units were in reserve 45, in which funds were planned to finance the tasks of their own local authorities. Nevertheless, I can say that for the current year in this reserve 45, no measures have been planned to supplement possibly the expenditure incurred by local authorities in relation to education reform. Hence the negative responses. This reserve was co-financed this year, if I remember correctly, with the tasks related to the article. 20a and Article 20a 20b Development Policy Act. Therefore, those proposals which were precisely linked to the subject mentioned by your senator could not be financed simply because of the lack of planned resources in this reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u51	Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u52	Thank you very much. The Minister may not answer me either, because the question still concerns the media, but please listen to me and try to answer it, because in my opinion these are not questions to Minister Lewandowski, but these are questions to the government. To the government that decided to transfer the sum of 900 million, and this is how. It's not the Ministry of Culture that makes these decisions. It was the government that decided that the 900 million would be transferred through the Ministry of Culture, Polish Television. And that's why we're asking about the legal basis. I also asked you whether you were wondering whether there could be any consequences from EU regulations. Because you decide that, too. And I would also like to ask what the application from the Ministry of Culture looked like. If so requested. How has this amount of 900 million been calculated? Why is that 900 million, not 800 million? And is that the amount given by TV or by the Ministry? Explain what that conclusion was like. And now I'm gonna explain why I'm asking you this. That's why I'm asking you, someone's always responsible for something. Since some senators have said something about mismanagement here, we may be wondering about it. Perhaps there was some mismanagement, and perhaps it is that this amount, which is intended for television, serves not what you are talking about, which is to compensate for the lost funds, but for patching up some hole on TV that results from something other than the lack of these resources. And I'm asking you for a serious answer. What was the conclusion? I'd like you to answer that. I will, of course, repeat this question again and address it to the Minister later. If you do not understand my intentions, please answer such a question: if it turns out that it was a mismanagement, e.g. President-in-Office, who would be responsible for the fact that the Polish Government has allocated funds to patch a hole resulting from mismanagement, justifying their destiny for another purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u53	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I would like to explain where the amount that came from here came from, and what was the mode, the method of proceeding on this project, but first of all, I would like to remind you that it was a government project, and Minister Lewandowski is also a representative of the government. And that is why I have allowed myself to ask that the Minister simply respond to this question, of course only in his own field. Each minister, even though he is a representative of the government, also has his competence within the government and therefore, on the basis of his desire to best satisfy the senator's curiosity, I have simply allowed myself to be redirected, but it is not my intention to avoid the senator's questions or to avoid answering in any other way. I can say for my part that when it comes to preparing a proposal, of course The amount of 980 million was included in the proposal to amend the budget law drawn up by the Minister of Culture, which was calculated jointly with the National Radio and Television Council. That's the first point. I do not have a document containing these calculations at the moment, but as far as the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is concerned, of course, he included a statement concerning both the amount concerned, its purpose, its destination and the rest of the... Because I remind you that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage in this amendment lists more targets than merely payment of this compensation. If the senator wishes to receive that letter, I'm not in his possession right now, and I'm sorry, but of course we can deliver it. We can make this request available. That's another line. As far as the decision is concerned, of course it was taken by the Council of Ministers and the question of responsibility is clear. If the senator asks me that, then, I'm sorry, I'm giving you such a very obvious answer. On the other hand, as far as the other issues raised by the senator are concerned, issues relating to the purpose, economy and management of the public television public limited liability company, I do not have data at this point that would confirm the mismanagement of the funds in the company concerned. As regards the payment of compensation for the concession in the years 2010 and 2017, I would like to say that they are of a one-off nature. As far as public aid issues are concerned, I will still ask Minister Lewandowski... As far as I know, they did this kind of research, this kind of test, in consultation with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. And the issues that the senator referred to as state aid issues... There is also a financing context for the European Union. I will, if the senator agrees, she asked for a supplement. As far as I'm concerned, the payment of one-off compensation... is the nature of the proportionality of the payments. I'm talking about subscription payments and advertising fees. Therefore, there are no reservations on the issue of state aid on our part. So much for my knowledge, my consultation, what I know about the design. If you don't mind, I'll ask Minister Lewandowski to supplement it. Perhaps there is another important detail that I have not given here, and the Minister will be able to answer the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u55	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Lewandowski's speech room, please. Minister, you've heard the questions, don't you have to repeat them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u56	Yes, of course, I heard. I'll answer them immediately. I have questions written in a slightly different order from the one in which they fell here. I will immediately continue what the Minister has said. The Minister, of course, is well prepared as always and has given very precise answers in my opinion. I'll just be a little more specific. As far as public aid is concerned, here's what I'm gonna say. When we entered the European Union, we all agreed to finance public media. State aid is allowed to be as high as in the case of 100% efficiency of the system at the time of entry into the European Union. And up to that amount, we can easily finance public media. In the Radio and Television Act I don't remember exactly which article it is. Of course, there is a provision that allows public media to be financed from public funds, but it is not precisely defined what public funds are. We assumed it would be a radio-television subscription and he was paid for many years. However, he was less and less paid. Currently only 13% circa is implemented payments from what should be paid. Plus, there was this situation. I'll mention it again. That the previous government did not create any legal opportunity to not pay the subscription, and at the same time the Prime Minister of this government, Donald Tusk, urged him not to pay it, i.e. to break the law. One of the constitutional obligations of every citizen is to pay public tribute. Such a fee is a radio-television subscription. This also caused a difficult situation of the public medium. Now I'm reminding you what a public medium is. The public medium is public because it carries out a public mission, i.e. the tasks enshrined in the Constitution, which the State should carry out. The State has assigned these tasks to public television and is therefore financed by public money. If any separate entity... There were questions about why a separate entity is getting money from the government. That's because we have requirements for this entity. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which is enshrined in the Constitution, if we require any action in the field of State duties by any other entity, whether by public television or by local government, we should pay for these tasks as a state. As regards European issues and the question of whether this is not illegal public aid, let me say this: it is permitted public aid. As I mentioned at the outset, all countries in the European Union have agreed that public action, which the State should guarantee, is entitled to implement public media through public money. Of course, we have an opinion from the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on whether this is permitted public aid. Besides, the European Union is not really interested in where the money is coming from, but in what it is spent on, and this money is spent only and exclusively on activities in the field of government procurement. It's called a mission in the case of public television. Actions that... The State guarantees that these powers, which are in the Constitution, the right to information, etc., will be exercised by public television, by public media for public money. It's a mismanagement charge. This mismanagement is not merely causing a deficit, because the deficit in the company may not be due to the mismanagement at all. This mismanagement is a bad spending of money, and public television does not spend money badly. Well, public television finances 80% missions from commercial money, i.e. those that earn as a company of commercial law rather than from public money, i.e. the company finances missionary tasks that should be publicly funded. For years, it was because there was no public money. We ceded public tasks to the company, but we did not give it money to carry out these public tasks, and that is why this company had to finance it with commercial money. We must therefore develop a system to ensure that these public tasks are carried out through public money. To be honest, in my opinion, this is one of the best-run companies. In view of all the public tasks that this company carries out, it must be said clearly and firmly that this money is being spent well. The deficit planned for 2017 will not exist because there will be a profit, it will be plus PLN 10 million. This may be shocking to you, but... Indeed, in the first year, in 2015 the deficit amounted to PLN 37 million, in 2016, about PLN 177 million and in 2014, i.e. when you finished... In fact, it was one of the last budgets 100% implemented by you, i.e. by the Civic Platform and during the Civic Platform. Then there was 6 million profit, the year before there was minus 20 million profit, and in 2012 minus 219 million... sorry, not profit, just deficit, 20 million deficit. There were 219 million deficits in 2012 and 89 million deficits in 2011. As you can see, a public company is always a deficit company. We are finally trying to change this, which is finally to relieve the company so that it does not finance the public service mission from its own resources, but to finance this public service mission from public funds. That's one thing. [[After this compensation, I think it'll even make a profit.]] Compensation isn't... This is compensation for the lack of public resources to carry out a public mission, not for commercial activities. I remind you that the public television mission is carried out by commercial means, not by public funds. It shouldn't be like this. If we're assigning any tasks to someone, then they should be financed by the public budget, that is, by public funds. It's from a subscription, or it's from a subscription. from compensation or from funding from the state budget. I am personally in favour of subscription funding, but it has now been decided that this will be compensation from the state budget. There were questions about audiovisual production before the break. For 25 million PLN will be supported by cinematographic production. There are many proposals submitted to various cultural institutions which will support these activities and finance cinematographic works in co-production. At the moment, I can exchange e.g. A movie about Piłsudski. Maybe we'll finance it. If the producers make it this year, The film about the Battle of Kostuchnówka and a whole series of films that would somehow commemorate the century of regaining independence in 2018, but also artistic films. I've made a decision about co-production and co-financing of a film that promotes the character of Fryderyk Chopin. There's quite a lot of things to do. As for the research institute for which there is a reserve of PLN 75 million, I would remind you that it is a parliamentary initiative, not a government initiative. It seems that the position of the government was already presented by Minister Gawin at the committee meeting. I will just remind you that the aim of the institute is among others. conducting research on the rescue of Poles from the destruction and reward of people or heirs of these people, descendants of those who helped save Poles from the destruction in 1939 and 1946. 75 million PLN is intended for several years, not just for one year. This is not a one-off grant for one year, only for a few years, to be used for the creation of an institute, for the creation of a whole research system, for the search and reward of these people. I also remembered that there was a question of Senator Zdrojewska about the exact calculations. I have such precise calculations, I can make them available to you. Let me say, as you mentioned earlier, the Deputy Minister of Finance, that these are calculations made together with the National Radio and Television Council. To be honest, the National Radio and Television Council was more involved. This is the case: in 2010, in connection with the redundancies of 326 000, 313 people were granted the right not to pay their subscription. At that point, it was almost 2%. subscribers and caused a loss of revenue of PLN 49 million. In 2016 these people were 820 thousand and a loss of this amount, the loss as a result of the decrease in revenues from the subscription amounted to PLN 220 million. I have a full schedule of changes during this amount, and of course I'll make it available to the senator. The sum amounts to about PLN 977 million, PLN 274 thousand 444, which is why this amount was requested. I would remind you that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is not responsible for this amount, i.e., he does not say exactly to whom this amount is to go, merely allocates this amount from his budget to the National Radio and Television Council. The National Radio and Television Council, in accordance with the principles of the National Radio and Television Council, will decide by the end of November on the distribution of these funds. As this will go beyond the sphere of the state budget, the National Radio and Television Council will also have the right to spend this money later, i.e. after a new year. From the point of view of the National Council, these are the same measures as the subscription, and they, in colloquial terms, fall into the same bag and will be distributed among all public media in accordance with the same principles. The public media is 19 - it is not only television, it is also Polish Radio, 17 local radio stations. I would remind you that no one better than local radios informs about local events, because most national television is Warsaw-centric television, unfortunately. I would like to remind you that the largest Polish television, i.e. public television, has at its disposal about 1/3 of the commercial television budget, so it must be admitted that money is actually spent there effectively. Public television maintains about 10 TV channels, takes up almost 1/3 of the market and has much lower expenditures and is much less competitive because, as I said, it emits a lot of missionary content that is not attractive to advertisers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u57	Minister, I have two questions. [[What about me, Mr. Marshal?]] I wrote it down, I wrote it down, but now I want to ask. Is this bill... that the TV deficit is shrinking, that the grant is included? You call it compensation, and I think it's a form of grant. That's the first question. Second question. Because the process of releasing older people's subscription fees will continue... Will you continue to charge these compensations, assume, in the bill drawn, for 2, 3 years, because there is already precedent, or are you going to not do so and undo those redundancies that were made during the previous government term?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u58	We will not withdraw absolutely any exemptions that were introduced for citizens for the 2010 relief. At the moment, there is no bill that would allow the annual compensation for television due to these concessions. We are still working on a target subscription bill to introduce a clear, automatic, equal and fair system for financing public media, covering all citizens. I am convinced that as soon as there is a decision to start the legislative process, we will all know about it and I will possibly be able to refer as we see this system. And when it comes to the financing of television, we, as I said, are only going to finance a public mission with this grant. Therefore, this year we will complete the TV budget by about PLN 250 million only for missionary activities. [[I understand, but in this one... didn't you answer the first question?]] Yeah, it's gonna be... Without this grant, television would lose about PLN 250 million. [[So it's the result of this grant that's a good result.]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u59	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. not from the Civic Platform complexes. Namely, it is about the position concerning 40 million for the purchase of rights to the catalogue of Polish Recordings. I'm not questioning that, I'd just ask you to zoom in on what it's all about, why we have to buy it out, who sold it without us knowing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u61	When it comes to this position, it's not 40 million zlotys. We have approximately PLN 115 million for investment expenditure. I do not know how much it will cost to buy Polish Recordings, I hope that less than 40 million PLN. Polish Recordings were sold during the reign of the Civic Platform for PLN 8 million 100 thousand by the bankruptcy syndicate, while the properties that belonged to this company are worth more than the 8 million. It was sold at auction. The call price was just $8 million, one volunteer came in and bought it for $8 million $100,000. And let me remind you that as part of the catalogue of Polish Recordings we have recordings of composers of contemporary music, including Witold Lutosławski, Krzysztof Penderecki, Henryk Mikołaj Górecki, Wojciech Kilar in excellent performances of orchestras of National Philharmonic and Sinfonia Varsovia, National Symphony Orchestra of Polish Radio, piano competitions. Fryderyk Chopin and violin competitions. Henry Wieniawski. These are recordings from the recordings of the festivals "Warsaw Autumn" and Jazz Jamboree, recordings from the series "Polish jazz" by artists such as Zbigniew Namysłowski Quartet, Tomasz Stańko, Stanisław Sojka, Michał Urbaniak, Andrzej Trzaskowski, Urszula Dudziak, Zbigniew Seifert, Krzysztof Komeda. These are recordings of the duo by Jeremy Przybora and Jerzy Wasowski, recordings of popular music artists, including Czesław Niemen, Anna Jantar, Wojciech Młynarski, Zbigniew Wodecki, Irena Santor, Breakout, Marek Grechuta, Krzysztof Klenczon, Skaldów. These are also fairy tales for children read by actors, e.g. by Wiesław Michnikowski, Irena Kwiatkowska or Barbara Krafftówna. We believe that this is our heritage, and therefore the rights to this heritage should be primarily in the domain of the state, so that it can be used effectively. It must be admitted that Polskie Nagrania was a company which in some sense was brought to the fore by not knowing whether by mismanagement, or simply by failure to manage, or by some adverse market conditions to fall, but also earlier was not a particularly well-functioning entity, which would allow Poles to participate in culture in a manner worthy of being able to listen to works by artists such as those whom I mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u62	Thank you, Minister. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I have a question. Since the funds for compensation for the operation of public television come from the state budget, I have here a fundamental question to which you have been polite many times during your speech, namely the question about the public service mission. Let me briefly quote the article. 21 Act on Radio and Television: public radiophony and television carry out a public mission, offering, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, various programmes and other services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, education and sport, characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence and innovation, high quality and integrity of the transmission. In your opinion, do the programs that we see on public television today meet the characteristics of a public service mission? That's the first question. Second question. As you will explain, Minister, this is the situation that in the region from which I come, in the Lubuskie voivodeship, in public programmes carried out by the regional public television division 80% there are law and justice politicians, and only 20% The opposition party politicians? I will send you the exact details in the nearest correspondence, and I will also ask you to respond in writing on this matter. These situations I'm describing, I don't think they meet the public service features of the bill I quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u64	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, public television carries out a public mission to the extent that it follows from the bill you quoted. I would like to remind you that the broadcasts are addressed to all citizens, not just so-called. a commercial group, i.e. only the one attractive to advertisers under which commercial television programmes are made. It's like that. because we have a lot of cultural programs, we even have dedicated programs in the field of history, culture and national heritage, is TVP History or TVP Culture. The information mission is also being carried out. About an hour a day on TVP1... The sum of all information programs, i.e. Teleexpress, news and the morning news band, is about an hour. As far as pluralism is concerned, according to the National Council of Radiophony and Television, politicians of the ruling party are shown... That's only 33%. all the politicians shown who operate in the political arena; I mean those who are in the Sejm, and those prominent parties that also function outside the Sejm. That's only 33%, and that includes Members and Government members. So that's the data of the National Radio and Television Council. I don't know the data you cited, I don't know who was measuring it. I didn't see those numbers in the National Radio and Television Council report. I hope you're... Because this is basically the only entity that measures it and has a methodology for it. This methodology's been the same for years, no one's changed it, so we can't talk about any manipulations. This is the same methodology that you used earlier. This methodology has also been used in previous governments. I mean, if it's like... about the mission in the form of participating in sporting events, this reminds you that public television has purchased a package of matches. Polish representation will always be shown in Polish Television. When it comes to other sports relationships, not just football, other sports, we will try to make them appear on public television, not on pay-per-view channels or pay-per-view platforms. So we are fulfilling the mission in this area, which is quite expensive. I would also like to stress that public television has been underinvested for many years and has not implemented a simple technological upgrade that should be implemented. E.g. it was not completed by the beta off program, which was supposed to be digitally recorded, then the digital editing of the program and then digital broadcasting of the same program. At the moment, because of the negligence of previous boards, we have digital recording, we also have digital broadcasting, but on the way there is analog conversion, which means you have to lose the number to tape, and then the tape to the number to be able to transmit it, because there have been such savings. Hence, among others. there are increased investments in television, which are currently generating high deficits, because the world simply needs to catch up with the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u66	Thank you. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] Senator Sługocki would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, as I understand it, the TVP Info information programme also benefits from compensation. May I have your opinion, or do the stripes that appear on public television carry out a public mission as well? I have a question: can we get to know the authors? 'Cause eventually their salaries are covered by public money. Who formulate such, and not others, in your opinion carrying out a public mission, in my opinion absolutely not, comments on the information presented in the TVP Info information program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u68	TVP Info is also funded in a large part... i.e. should be financed to a large extent by public funds, but As I said at the outset, Public television finances almost everything from commercial funds, because it does not receive almost any public funds, so I think that most of the salaries that journalists receive, however, are from commercial funds, not from public funds. I would like to remind you that the Radio and Television Act says that it's the management or the sender who shapes his program and doesn't want to. I don't know. The influence of politicians. That's the first line. Since I am a direct supervising minister, I would not like to speak out and comment on the content of public television, especially in the field of information programmes, because someone might think that this is an influence if I praised or chastised what is on TV. On the other hand, the Commercial Companies Code also states that the general meeting It is not possible to issue binding instructions to the management board or interfere in the day-to-day management of the company. In this regard, I am also avoiding the answer in this respect, because the law clearly states that I should not say in this case that I should not suggest any specific actions or influence... Because that would be against the principles of democracy. Thank you. [[Can I have the last one, Mr. Marshal, just a little...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u69	Very briefly, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u70	Yes. Thank you. Minister, this is the last of my heartfelt requests to answer in writing... Could I ask for an answer to this question: what was the relationship like? just between the participation of opposition party politicians and the participation of the governing party politicians in public programmes, especially in the main edition of the News? What's the ratio? How much air time do the politicians of the ruling party fill, and how many other opposition parties? By the participation of individual parties, including oppositional ones, separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u71	Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Mr...]] [[Voice from the room: You have to answer.]] Uh-huh. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u72	Senator, I will, of course, ask this question on your behalf of the National Radio and Television Council, because the National Radio and Television Council is the constitutional body responsible for this and monitors it. So I'm gonna ask the National Council and give you the answer. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u73	Thank you, Minister. I'm joining that question. I'd ask you to answer in writing for me, too. Now, Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u74	I'd just like to ask you, Mr. Minister, about these... We often speak at committee meetings and with the Minister, and with the President, so that we know some answers, but we do not know some questions. I would like to ask: what about this loan of 800 million zlotys that TV took in the middle of this year? 800 million, ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge amount, even for public television. You should've agreed with the minister... Probably at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego a loan of this amount, 800 million PLN, was taken up. She's been dragged. Well, everyone was criticizing it. It's like a promise of money from a subscription, which is what citizens are paying. Tell me how this loan is now available for this budget allocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u75	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u76	The loan of the amount indicated by the senator was granted on commercial terms. It seems to be about 3.5%. The Minister calculated this exactly yesterday at the meeting of the committee 3.53% after taking into account the current WIBOR. And from what I... I immediately stress that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is not a party to this loan. We, of course, as the supervisory authority, as the general meeting, have information about this loan. If I remember correctly, about half of the amount is spent on TV's investment expenditure and half is spent on current television. I think I might be able to answer that in this regard... Ah! These are two parallel sources of funding, i.e. The money we're giving is on a mission. This isn't the money to pay off the loan. So there's no doubt about it. Television from this second pot will, as I said, finance current operations and investments, among others. by making up for these negligence in terms of equipment that has persisted over the years. Thank you. [[There are regional measures for this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u77	Thank you, Minister. Senator Blackbay is now asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I asked about audiovisual productions, and the minister said... Could I ask for a written reply on the plans to use this 25 million PLN support for audiovisual production? It's not about now, but it's about how... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: But I can now comment directly, if you don't mind... Because it's hard for me to say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u79	You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u80	I'm sorry. It's hard for me to tell you exactly what my plans are right now, because so that we can spend this money, we have to... These are subordinate institutions, e.g. FiNa, film company or film studios, which are subject to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, may be the beneficiaries of these measures and they must present a scenario, an estimate. This must also be assessed by the Polish Film Institute. And only when this whole procedure closes, will we have a list of the exact productions that we will legally finance. We initially estimated that it would be PLN 100 million, but already today we have partially verified our predictions and I can say that this is PLN 25 million. And it's such a very strong commissionorium, because we've based it on more or less... i.e. Knowing what the status of specific projects is and assuming that these projects can be implemented by the end of the year so that they can be financed. So it's hard for me to... I can introduce you to some kind of commissionorium, but don't get attached to the fact that this is how it's gonna be released to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u81	Senator Czarnobaj yet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u82	Minister, I do not believe that, as the Minister has now proposed, it will be 25 million PLN and that now cultural institutions and not only, because also widely understood entities that can receive support... I mean. You ask me if you're gonna say, "Listen, we've got $25 million right now..." Therefore, I would ask for information regarding... 'Cause I understand that a lot of things can change in that time, somebody can quit. It's obvious, isn't it? But after all, the state as the Ministry of some sort of fitting You did. And I'm interested in this fitting of yours, something like this: we know that we're going to turn to these, to these, and we want them to work something out there...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. The Minister understood what was going on... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Of course, I will present such a commission.]] ...and will answer in writing. Now, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at yesterday's committee meeting, the Minister of Finance informed us that some of the money earmarked for culture... i.e. that from these parts will be financed the purchase of certain properties for the museum, e.g. East-earth museum. My question is, could you say a few words about this museum? What is the nature of the project, and when will it be opened, so to speak, when will the entire investment be completed? And second question. Are you simultaneously providing funds for the construction or creation of a museum of Western lands, a museum of settlers, a museum of pioneers who used to farm the land after 1945? Memories of those people who have also had their tragedies and wonderful times are dying irreparably, so it would indeed be worth bringing this subject closer to our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u85	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u86	Thank you, Senator. This is a very important question, especially when it comes to setting up a museum of Western lands. I understand that it should also be built at the moment, but I have no idea where we are at the moment of this process. I will, of course, try to respond in writing in this regard. As for the museum of eastern lands, I will also answer this question in writing when I obtain information from the competent minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u88	Minister, you haven't answered my question, which, as a matter of fact, the Deputy Minister has ordered you to make amends. Namely, in this question I accused the government, in this case to you, of rugged action for the implementation of the article. 84 Constitution, which imposes obligations on all citizens and recommends this to the government In the area of danin for television, i.e. subscription. There is a decline in the issue of subscription, and the government, on the contrary, uses the taxes of all citizens to support the so-called. national media, which in the eyes of the public are government. So that the government not only did not present a real legislative initiative in two years, it did not implement it, but it does not even have an idea for the future. And second question. Over the past year, we have seen a number of speeches by ordinary citizens who were not party members. You saw them from your window. Thousands, tens of thousands of people. I have not noticed that the public media, in any way in any way, would invite these people, the representatives of these people, to present their views. More: former journalists' opinions as prosecutors. What do you say? Citizens have the right to participate in public media Don't they? Is this a public mission? Why should they pay for television when they're criticized there?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u89	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u90	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will answer the second question first, because it will be a shorter answer: the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Government do not have In terms of substance, the right of access to public media to prohibit or order them to do something, unless it is regulated by law, but then there are other authorities. The National Radio and Television Council exercises the supervision of the media, and please address this question to it. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage shall be appointed only in connection with financial supervision. The only thing that we, as the Ministry of Culture, can still say is cultural productions in which we ourselves or one of our cultural institutions participate. So it's hard for me to answer that question. As far as the first question is concerned, of course, any budget subsidy is a subsidy from all public danins from all citizens. Thus, the subscription is also a public tribute from all citizens. Because according to CUS 97.3% of all citizens have either a radio, or a TV, or a radio and a TV. So it can be said that almost every citizen in Poland is obliged to pay a subscription, which he does not do and which was effectively advised not to do, was prevented, hindered over the last few years. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage presented a draft subscription law, he, apparently, is currently in the Sejm, has not passed further stages. You're saying this is an unrealistic or unrealistic project... [[He's clumsy.]] Or clumsy. I'll tell you, this is a very careful project, and we've really devoted a lot of work to it. If you had supported him in the Senate too, we would have had public media funding for us a long time ago. Of course, there are also various other ideas about the possibility of financing public media. But as far as what you were asking, I think I've exhausted the subject. Unless you want to make something more specific, of course I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u91	There you go, Mr. Senator. You want to be more specific, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u92	Minister, the carelessness lies in the fact that only after the presentation of the project do you ask the European Union about the possibility of carrying out this project, and at the same time, despite this project, for which there is no consequence in the implementation of it by Parliament, you grant state aid or, as you say, public television. And then there's the second line. It is not true that, as you say, we are torpedoing this solution. You... I mean, I also reported two years ago to your superior or some colleague from the Ministry of Heritage, Czabanski, a project, exactly like the one that the government now, because it just woke up, presents without proper consultation with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u94	As far as consultations with the European Union are concerned, there is no... You're referring to Mr Czabanski's project, aren't you? And I'm referring to the project that I submitted. I have done my utmost to prepare all the projects that have so far gone through the government legislative process and have gone to the Sejm. I know the draft by Minister Czabański and I know that this is a matter of debate whether he would really need the notification of the European Union. I'm convinced. Because it was in the same ministry, at my place, that there were projects and the same people were responsible for them, and these are outstanding specialists. That this project was prepared very carefully. As you know perfectly well, whether or not a project is going to pass, it is often determined by factors other than the design's meeriology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u95	Thank you, Minister. More questions... [[No, it is.]] Any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u96	The carelessness of our power now exercised by the PiS lies not in whether or not the projects are made up, but in the fact that the article is not being implemented. 84 constitutions in which it is advisable that every citizen is obliged to pay public tributes and a subscription to public television is a tribute. And the deficit is not due to the difference of opinion between you and Czabanski or me, but to the failure to fulfil the obligation to download danin. I ask whether, until any law in this area comes out next year, the government has a different solution to prevent the deficit of benefits and, above all, to break the principle of universality of tribute, which does not seem to impose this obligation on everyone, and which is implemented only by 13% of those obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u98	As far as full retrievability is concerned, I would like to remind you that in Poland the system was so designed and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal made it possible to collect this tribute ineffectively. I remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the Polish Post, which was obliged to do so, As in other countries, e.g. Germany It does not have the right to control private persons, citizens, whether they have a TV or not. When we wanted to create solutions that would allow legal control of whether someone has a TV or not, of course this was met with a very strong opposition party resistance and very strong action to prevent such a project from going through. At this point, we do not have any other legal solutions that could in any way result in the subscription downloadability being higher and TV funding for next year, among others. provides for the amendment of this year's law, i.e. the transfer of funds to the National Radio and Television Council for the operation of public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u99	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that government representatives have undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Slugocki, Senator Borusewicz, Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Kleina. As regards the question of Senator Zdrojewska, Minister Czerwińska also committed herself, and as regards the others, Minister Lewandowski. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Do you want me to answer?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I will answer all of them.]] Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I will answer all of them.]] The first one, too? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Yes. I'll answer all the questions.]] Good. All questions will be answered by Minister Lewandowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on amending the budget law, senators are not allowed to submit requests for rejection. Please take the floor of the senator... [[Senator Zdrojewska.]] ...Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I guess it wouldn't be too much trouble this time, because how many times there's talk about television, so many times it takes a long time and there's actually a lot of comments. not only because everyone knows about TV, but also because it has been very controversial for two years. But you wouldn't have, Minister, and I'm also addressing the Minister, you wouldn't have had any trouble with these questions if it weren't for the fact that this money had gone out of the budget by the Ministry of Culture. Because it is indeed as at the end of the answer to the questions the Minister said that television, according to the Act And we'd really like it to be that way. It is completely independent of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Culture and is not responsible for the programme, nor for the content, nor for what is happening there. However, he is certainly indirectly responsible for the situation in the Polish Television, because he is the Minister of Culture We have presented laws that, after 2 years, we can see as fatal and as laws that have led to probably the worst times on public television in history and the worst state of its finances. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister will certainly disagree with me, but I have my assessment. We are after a very long, several-hour conversation with Minister Kurski, who presented the programme situation on TV, but I will now focus only on the financial situation because we have a budgetary debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out what the problem is and how high the budget we are going to allocate to the Polish Television right now is. It's 900 million zlotys, which is about as much as television has advertising revenue in a year, not from a subscription, because it's much lower. About that much every year television earns itself, which is all the influence that... has always been so much television in a year. 900 million zlotys is an annual impact from advertising and not only, this is all that public television has earned. It's such a huge amount. She's already surprising herself. And even more surprising is the fact that not more than six months ago, a few months ago, even less than six months ago, public television took out a loan of PLN 800 million to patch something up, because the news spread that the hole is huge and Mr. President has huge problems with financing public television on an ongoing basis. That was the situation. So when we add 900 million and 800 million to each other, we get an amazing amount in the television budget. We should consider what has happened in the last two years, that so much money from the budget and from the credit television needs during the reign of President Kurski. Let me remind you that the television that was being taken over was in a balanced situation. I think she was, as far as I can remember. Mr Daszczyński was still reporting to us on the positive side. And after a year... The next year, i.e. 2016, Mr. President ended up at a loss, the loss amounted to PLN 180 million. I'm talking about last year's loss, not this one, because we don't know... The Minister says TV's on the plus side. How's it going on the plus side? Probably because of rolling and some financial engineering, because it is simply impossible, given the situation and the situation in the middle of this year. Therefore, if you raise your hands for granting this money, you will take great responsibility and the Polish government has taken on a great responsibility by transferring this money through the Ministry to public television. In 2016, Poland received less than a year earlier from advertising revenues. She also had 10%. less of the subscription than in 2015 This is also interesting, because the National Radio and Television Council took very hard to download this subscription, actually the money from the subscription, and improved these results, so that they somehow grew from year to year. Of course, I realize that they couldn't grow forever. For well-known reasons, this cheatability encounters a barrier at some point, and no more money can be drawn. I would point out that with such a loss The revenues from advertising were also smaller, and you cannot say that the Polish Television is in a good financial position. It's not, it's in a terrible financial situation. In my opinion, these additional measures for Polish Television They will reach PLN 2 billion in a year. They should really light some red light in your head. That's what I'm paying attention to. I will vote against, precisely because of this situation on Polish Television. For other financial matters at the Ministry of Culture And I'm on the culture committee, so that's what I do. I don't have any special, major reservations, but I think television is a really big problem. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In my speech, fragmented only, I want to focus on 3 issues, i.e. on financial compensation for public television, on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the equality of rights of guardians of persons with disabilities and on the third, minor issue, concerning the use by the Minister for Social Policy and Social Affairs of measures to assist the oppressed and members of the anti-communist opposition. It's a compensation case. I have dealt with this issue for several years, and I have sufficient knowledge to address the government's allegations of frivolity and recklessness, as well as irresponsibleness in the management of public tributes, and this is the definition that the Constitutional Tribunal has attributed to the subscription. This recklessness, irresponsibleness, is that the government has not presented a real solution to the issue of impermissibility over the past two years. Today it is known that the subscription pays only 10% persons. At that time, the government actually presented some initiatives, but they were all missed. This is the opinion of the government itself. As a last resort And that's what this clumsy, incompetence is all about. Even solutions that already apply in other countries of the European Union have not been used and have been successfully implemented. I pointed out in my proposals addressed to the government that e.g. Finland 90% people carry out this tax obligation in the form of a PIT statement. This pain and my regret stem not only from the fact that I am in opposition to the government, but rather from the fact that television and public media are a common good, and even when they are biased, they also carry out a mission, especially when they provide information about the weather status and mentioned sports messages or warn about dangers. In this respect, what the government is doing, I see it as risking their quality, their incompetence, their delay in passing... I ignore what Reuters writes, which examines all public media all over the world and which is an authority; on the basis of these studies it concluded that public television is strictly government television and a fake news producer. I will not develop this thread, because the minister, who very honestly, very eagerly transfers PLN 1 billion to it, suddenly from the possibility of expanding its assets, the finance escapes. The same Reuters states that television consciously, for political reasons, gives up the influence of advertising, among others. by refusing to publish advertisements from certain companies that are not government-friendly. And it's already barbaric, in my opinion, that public media are giving up income. It's barbaric. That's what you might call silence... Perhaps milder: it is conformism to silence against all those who impose a duty on the operation of television, public media on a narrow group of citizens, generally responsible people. This conformism, contrary to what was said, is not here Senator Bierecki's political game... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] [[I'm right here. I'm listening.]] You're here, Mr. Senator. Sir, if anything... You said I didn't report anything to the D.A.'s office. In my opinion, it is your duty to report this to the D.A.'s office, the duty of you as the one who directs the work on budget execution control. How is it that the constitutional authorities give up their duty to download public danins? They do it easy. And good for you, I'm in favour of it. In relation to taxable persons who are not paying, e.g. VAT. However, it is the same duty to pay this tribute, which is very small. If the authorities are resigning here, it's only because next year... Well, they don't want to put an obligation on the right level, Mr Senator, Mr President, because they want to win elections, but by means of state conformism, even violations of the constitution. And in this respect, in my opinion, you should feel morally responsible for not fulfilling... I feel responsible for the fact that there is a huge group of citizens in our country who impose an obligation on other citizens regarding the functioning of public media, which are of a common nature. This certainly does not comply with the principles of social solidarity or with the principles of rationality at all. I'm moving on to the second point. In this law, the need to amend the budget for compensation or for the loss of the coal debt is justified. I don't want to discuss it. I made it clear... I think it is good that the government is aware of the social problems arising from the reform in mining, and we will soon see the consequences. But he doesn't look at all the social groups at the same time. For the past two years, since 2014, on the desks of all ministers, in particular the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Finance, as well as all of us, senators... In particular, we in the Senate have an obligation to implement two judgments of the Constitutional Court concerning inequalities in the treatment of persons with disabilities, and in particular their guardians. The government, answering our questions, to my questions, predicted that these issues would be resolved this year, because there is a reserve, and I think it's about 800 million. Unfortunately, these needs in this amendment have not been met by the government, which means that the state of legal inequality indicated in the ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal has been prolonged for a further period of years. And just like the TV Compensation Act, it doesn't even indicate the path, it doesn't say if it will be resolved next year. The question is... I do not want to discuss who is more important here, whether the coal-free miners or those who, while performing the various social functions of the state, have resigned and cared for people with disabilities. My choice is obvious, but I'm not gonna cheat on him. Let me add that disabled people also have political rights, although perhaps not so, let's call it, visible as miners, because we have to look after disabled people and they can't go to demonstrations. I remind you, Minister, that he was negotiating, but he abandoned it, in order to reach a settlement on implementation... I will present an initiative in this area soon. In any event, it is unworthy that a country wishing to implement the Disabled Convention should escape this issue at the time of its implementation. And the third issue, maybe less important... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes...]] ...but e.g. Mr. Marshal is familiar. Three times in budgets Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't want to use those five minutes. It was established that 50 million zlotys were earmarked for the implementation of the Act on Repressed Persons and the Anti-Communist Opposition and that only 10 to 12% were spent three times. Why didn't the government decide that in the case of those people who were delayed... This is the last such witness. So that we can run it the way it's usually in ministries, and we're all familiar with it. Thank you, and I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, that I extended my speech for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. [[Senator Bierecki would like to correct...]] Excuse me, Senator Bierecki reporting. Yes? [[Yeah, with the corrigendum.]] In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u104	Since my name was mentioned in Senator Rulewski's speech, I would like to say that I fully agree with the senator. - Donald? - Yeah. Tusk should indeed be of interest to the prosecutor's office because of the deterioration of the state budget and the call for failure to comply with the obligation to pay tribute. So I join Senator Rulewski's appeal, who has been dealing with the former Prime Minister for months. In this respect, the interest of the prosecution would indeed be appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u105	Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I join the various kinds of opinions that have come up here about television. Many people present here and Senator Zdrojewska, and Senator Rulewski That's what I'm talking about. I'll just add two words. We may differ on what concerns the perception of the quality of the programme as it is. I speak as a spectator, I do not know the Arkans of television as I do Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, but when I read the development of independent foreign institutes about media in Europe... I want to tell you that I have read that 2 media, namely Russia Today and Television Poland, are almost twin stations in terms of character. If the Minister of Culture, Minister Lewandowski, says that the media are fantastically fulfilling this public function, the social function towards everyone... Here's what I'm gonna say. As I read on the Info TV strip that here goes the march of patriots, and then on this television shows others as non-patriots, I have a slight doubt whether this is objective television, showing the world in an objective way and fulfilling this public mission. So as not to prolong... As I listened to the Minister praise our public television, I remembered some sentences, slogans: 'War is peace'. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength. These are the messages from Orwell's animal farm. And here's the same thing... Well, complete ignorance of honesty and objectivity, and it's said to be public television. Well, Orwell's full-blown. The question of the budget was raised here, and I asked the Minister about the issues of these reserves. The Minister has said what results from the knowledge of people who are decently addressing the issue of budget adjustment. Yes, there are special reserves, but for various reasons some of these reserves are not used, whether we have a government of the Civic Platform or we have a government of law and justice. These are the things that are standard in Europe and maybe in the world. I don't know. So I'm not gonna remind you of what you're saying about What was it like? It's a combination of budget, creative accounting. I think those who have said that will go back to these statements, they will hit their chests and say: I was wrong, but not realising a certain part of the reserve is a normal thing. And I commend that this is the normal policy of every country. If there are things that I can't be done for different objective reasons, there is no need for political reasons to force them to be realized. And very well, Minister, that these things that do not have or are not realized for any reason are not realized, but are transferred to other tasks. I don't need to praise the Minister because perhaps it's unnecessary, such a kiss of death. I'll get back to the budget. Of course, the worst situation is always when the correction of the budget concerns a broad range of expenditure. Notice what the mechanism is. We are discussing the adjustment of this budget only at the meeting of the budget committee. I do not know whether these corrections were discussed at the meetings of the Boards of Appeal. Oh, no. Thus, thousands of different small expenditures on various things, ranging from important ones relating to the widely understood coal industry or the purchase of shares to the likes of a billion zlotys for television, or smaller ones such as 80 million or for example. Transfer from the Ministry of Justice, from the courts to the D.A.'s office... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, We have neither the time nor the chance for a thorough analysis, which is why this should be the subject of this committee's work. Thus, from a legislative point of view, making a correction is not a good move, a correction so broad in substance. The correction must also be made in various difficult situations, so from the point of view of the political axiom it should not be said: we will never make the correction. It should be carried out, but as far as its scope is concerned, it should be limited to a minimum one month before the end of the financial year, particularly as regards new tasks. Now I'm gonna go to the changes. We are talking about the fact that, as if additional... maybe not additional, only loose money that appears due to improvements in the labour market and contributions to the European Union, that is over PLN 6 billion. And if we look at that more than 3 billion is on the coal industry and 1 billion on TV, we can say that this correction is mainly a correction, let's say, of coal and television. In the post-war years, there was this initiative, the Carbon and Steel Initiative of Monnet and Schuman. And it was something that was successful. But I do not believe that the community of television and steel, when it comes to correcting the budget, will bring any success for Poland, for the Polish economy, for the Polish taxpayer. This is rather an action that, in recent times, in my view, increases excessively what is related to expenditure. You're acting like this. Now I'm talking about the authors of this whole correction. That almost a month before the end of the year, you're making almost a ten-billion-dollar turnover. So if we take the report and read that at the end of the third quarter, the expenses are realized, if I have read correctly. At about 70% , that is to say, they are not realized at around 10% And here's 10%. ...Well, it's like in one month, last month of the year, an extra 20 billion is going to be spent. Therefore, this is not a good practice, which was a feature of the planned economy, that so we plan the budget, that the main expenditure will be in December before Christmas. And also, if you assume that these are primarily consumer expenditures... Because if we look at the whole thing, it's like a fall in investment at 42%. expenditure carried out on the investment side and investment related to the European Union's money. Therefore, we need to ask ourselves whether there are other areas here. I mean, there are different things. The issue of self-governments, education reforms, the huge expenditures that local governments have incurred. We have a question of protests, we also have a question of health needs, and yet you choose what Senator Rulewski said... This concerns unequal treatment and unequal approach to many areas of life, which should be seen as regards corrections. I will return to a comparison when it comes to the issue of the correction itself: the state behaves like a family, who suddenly, in November, all of a sudden, from various sources, receives PLN 10,000 and runs to the market to spend this money before Christmas. Well, that's not a good pattern. From a consumer point of view, in order to achieve a brief joy it may be good, but... we stand in position. I say this on behalf of Senator Kleina and myself that the issue of amending the budget in substance, the question of increasing expenditure in this short period of time should be... This should be very limited in order to reduce the deficit. And we need a longer discussion about what these funds are spent on in 2018. At the same time, Mr. Marshal, I would like to make an adjustment to the budget here, because I believe that what was said here during the discussion... Television, or actually public media, is an area that raises huge controversy. about quality and objectivity. There is also the issue of huge expenditure from the budget: 800 million loans, 1 billion PLN grants Now it's called compensation... These are expenditures that are incredibly budget-bearing, and they cause huge controversy, because in relation to other areas of life that I have said about, such as health care, education, in general issues related to investments carried out by the local government, i.e. roads and other... I would like to say that I myself will vote against this correction of the budget for the reasons I said earlier. And I would like to make a written adjustment to the budget, Mr Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u107	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I realise that sometimes there are situations where we need to update the budget. We've had these situations in previous years, too. These were rather exceptional situations and resulted from the fact that we had different types of problems with the implementation of budgetary revenue. And then, in order to complete the year as gently as possible, significant transfers had to be made in order to actually finance certain tasks. This has happened over the years, not only in recent times, in those times when we as the Civic Platform ruled. In fact, all the previous governments as a target have set themselves... The aim was to reduce the budget deficit. It seems to me that this is an important principle, which should particularly guide the Minister of Finance. It's just like in every family: we spend the money we make, sometimes we have to borrow money, but if there's extraordinary income, there's savings, then we don't borrow anymore, we just give back the credit that we borrowed, so that we can normally function as a family in the future. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Minister, who came to us, was pleased to say that there were extraordinary revenues and extraordinary savings in the expenditure of the state budget. We are also happy about this, but it would seem that at such a time the government, the finance minister, should come to us and say: we are acting in such a way as to reduce the financial deficit of the state budget. There is no need to change the budget for such an operation at all, because if it has been a practice so far There are measures, savings, these are de facto shown in the budget implementation report. After all, we remember that the general principle in the budget is that expenditure is the maximum expenditure that must be implemented by the budget and that revenue is the minimum amounts that should be implemented. So there is no need for this budget to be revised. But now that it's been decided, Yeah, I think so. Action should be taken to reduce the deficit. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the Minister answered my question. I said it's almost a month from the end of the financial and financial year. I said that we could discuss the changes and consequences of our savings during the debate on the budget which is currently being conducted in Parliament, in the Seym, and which will be with us in some time. Then you could put these extraordinary savings in such a way that spending them is rational. But the minister told me this: no, because the budget was submitted to the Sejm in September. Of course, there are no obstacles to changing things in the budget. This is not the first time we've been here, and we know how to work on the budget. It has been the case that, during the budgetary debate or shortly before it, the government made an autocorrection in order to make some redeployment of the general priorities in relation to such or other consequences of the events of the past year. We decide that we spend such significant amounts within one month, in addition to the normal functioning of the State. Isn't there in you, Senators of Law and Justice, such a fear that this money can be spent irrationally? After all, even spending procedures are often longer than one month. Wouldn't it be worth thinking about... Maybe the priorities you proposed in the budget could be different? Perhaps the cost could be constructed differently. If we were to ask individual ministers today what they think is important... Of course, the Minister and the Government will say that everything has been agreed within the Council of Ministers. It's true. But if there was such a normal discussion here, it might turn out that there would be other expenses. And even the amounts that we're talking about today, that are our savings, could be used for some purpose. But that's not what's happening. Money seems to be about clean consumption. Of course, some of these expenses I'm good at it. . are of the nature of investment expenditure. I don't want to argue with that. In general, however, we are thinking about how to eat this money and not how to make it part of a rational economy. There's a lot of programs. We were even wondering if, since you really want to spend this money, we should not make amendments that will be amendments... which, I don't know, will allocate this money for different purposes. In the end, however, as a Civic Platform, we have decided that we will rather say that, since there are additional revenues, they should be used to reduce the deficit of the state budget. However, we have tabled one amendment, which seems important to us. It is related to a problem that we have not since today, but for years, i.e. the problem of interns doctors, residents, etc. We propose that you accept this. We don't even deny what you remember in the Senate, we thought it was an irrational expense, i.e. deputies for miners, because when we adopted the bill, financial resources must be used to finance the bill. And I want to give you an example. It concerns Pomerania, the region from which I come, Pomerania understood as an area from Szczecin to Gdansk. One of the most important investments to be carried out there was the Kashubian route and the road from Szczecin to Gdańsk. The construction of the route, about which all ministers, including ministers of this government, said that it would prevent the exclusion of the communication of Pomerania. This is the region from which the most difficult to get to different parts of Poland. As you know, at least some of you have been called to tender for this investment during the Civil Platform government. All of this has been halted, although the measures for this purpose have been foreseen. The argument that was used was that there was no money for this investment, only one, mainly for this investment. But maybe there would be a situation... Maybe it'd be worth funding this investment. Especially since partly these blocking decisions have already been cancelled by the Minister of Infrastructure and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. The road from Gdansk to God's field will be built, it is built. Those were the decisions of the previous government. From Szczecin to Koszalin... So it's the same middle. The Pomerania is, of course, excluded again by communication and it is said that there is no money for it. I know that, of course, it is not possible today to make such a decision to allocate money for this purpose, to make it under this amendment, but whether it would be worthwhile, with these savings in perspective, to consider whether or not to push, to move what was previously planned, prepared, with building permits, etc. Various prepared things hold back for various strange reasons, obscuring themselves with financial arguments. That's why I think that in the case of the budget, and that's what I always ask the finance minister... I've always had this experience. And I've been in Parliament since 1997 and I'm still dealing with financial affairs that no matter what the government was, the finance minister said: we don't spend money just to spend it; we do it rationally, and if we can, we reduce the budget deficit. I would have a request to today's Minister of Finance of the Polish Government, asking him to think in such categories, remembering that we are still living on credit, that we are constantly borrowing that these are loans that will have to be repaid by us or others who will come for us. Thank you very much. Oh, I'm putting forward the amendments that I've announced, the ones that concern residents and the reduction of the budget deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u109	Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Blackobay and Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. Would government representatives like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: No. Thank you.]] The Minister doesn't... Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the review of item 2 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 645 and the report of the committee In print No 645 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Commission has examined this law at its hundred-sixth meeting on 13 November, and its report is in print No 645 A. The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt a law without amendment. In fact, it can be said that the debate on this law took place in the context of the discussion of the previous point. These two laws are linked. For technical reasons only, we are talking separately about these 2 laws, not together. It can be said that all the information concerning both the proceedings of the sitting and the questions that were asked by the senators at the sitting were repeated in the debate that we had just heard. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention and remind you 'Cause there's a lot of interest in television. That this law brings a number of other changes that we did not mention during the debate. We have not mentioned other regulations, so I would like to remind them. So, in addition to the regulation on the resources allocated to the National Radio and Television Council, we also have provisions on the payment of the loss of the right to free coal, as well as on the issue of the special reserve for the provision of health prevention offices in schools. After all, we have repeatedly called for the issue of these devices to be restored as essential for improving the quality and availability of healthcare services. We spend PLN 88 million in this budget for these health prevention offices that will appear and operate in schools. This is a very important implementation of the previously submitted requests, as well as the implementation of the programme with which the government came. It is also a matter of creating a special reserve for the implementation of the educational allowance and allowances for the financing of public transport journeys by means of collective transport for persons holding the Large Family Charter. Finally, there are also funds for the operation of the National Property Resources and for the increase of the resources at the disposal of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to finance the This is a very important decision, and I will remind you that in the budget there is 1.5 billion zlotys, which are intended to be allocated to the Living+ programme. And the last change worth recalling is the recapitalisation of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The additional appropriations are intended to be used to purchase and take up the shares of these entities by the State Treasury. These are the measures to be earmarked for the development of the activities of these entities, in principle they are pro-development measures. The promotion measures in this amendment include, first and foremost, funds for the Polish Development Fund, the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, and the National Property Resources, which participates in the wider programme of increasing investment. During the committee meeting... This remark will allow me to refer to my predecessor, Senator Kleina, whom I do not see here... [[It's... we'll pass it on, we'll pass it on.]] ...but I'm sure Senator Kleina listens very carefully... [[We'll pass it on.]] You'll tell him, country. I'm talking about reducing the deficit. I would like to point out that This was raised at the committee's meeting. A significant element of the savings achieved in 2017 is the reduction of debt handling costs by about PLN 600 million. This is important information: there has been a significant reduction. So when we talk about debt policy, about deficit reduction policy, we have to remember that the cost of debt service is consistently reduced. By the way, in the modern economy, there's actually nothing wrong with the fact that countries are in debt... [[Oh!]] ...the only question is what is the proportion and who is in debt. Oh, Senator Klein's back, so he'll probably be discussing... But I am saying this, as it were, outside the report, to interest Senator Czarnobaj, who will certainly have another economic theory on this issue. It's exhausting my report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators can report from the place for no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Who among your senators would like to ask a question? Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. An important amendment to the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 is Article. 16b, in which mouth. 2 is said to amount to PLN 2 billion 353 million for the financing of compensation payments for the loss of the right to free coal. Isn't this a fix for the situation that the previous government led to, the PO-PSL government that took away these rights from the miners? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u113	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u114	Yes, indeed, Mr. Senator, we've talked about this. We reminded you of the need to pay off those obligations that result from the coal miners' rights to free coal. Several dozens of cases won by miners, risking many other lawsuit... Yes, indeed, this problem, which was created by the previous government's decisions, has been resolved both by the law that we adopted at the previous meeting and just now, when we will provide funding for the tasks set out in this adopted law. Yes, indeed, we're paying off commitments that result from the mistakes of the previous government. [[Where are the mistakes? What mistakes? Not mistakes, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u115	Thank you. Your question is Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u116	Yes, it's very interesting what you said about the debt reduction. Question I'm not the one who's to blame, you're the one who's to blame because he initiated this topic. How much is the current debt and how much has PiS increased in 2 years of governance? But also the question accompanying it. How many countries in the European Union are now free from any debt in Europe? And a third. Is this 600 million PLN, the amount to reduce this debt, the result of the dollar or other currencies or the government's efforts? And why is that? That little?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u117	Thank you very much. None of these issues that you asked the senator about were discussed during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u118	The question is, Senator Jackowski:
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the TV issue. Could you explain why this support is needed by nearly PLN 1 billion of public television, and how is the origin of this phenomenon, and this, say, difficult situation of public television? Thank you very much. [[We talked about this at the previous point. That's the last point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u120	Thank you very much. During the examination of the previous point, I spoke quite extensively about this, quoting also the provisions, including the scope of the concessions adopted by Parliament. This is indeed a question of compensation for lost proceeds from licence fees, which resulted from the exemptions adopted in 2010 and 2017. By the way, I'd also like to point out... In her speech, Senator Zdrojewska spoke of PLN 980 million as the equivalent of revenue from advertising collected annually by all media in Poland. I can't verify that amount, tell you if it's real. Nevertheless, I would like to point out to the senator that we are talking here about a 7-year period, compensation for the 7-year period of loss of influence, i.e. in 2010 and 2017. So the point is that we actually refer these numbers to time. I hope that answers the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u121	The next question you ask is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u122	I'd ask you to expand this third area, I'm talking about these offices of prevention. What kind of offices are these? Because it's, apparently, over 88 million zlotys. And also referring to the issue of television financing, I would like to mention, also as a supplement, that at the moment the funds that Poland's Television receives from subscription are at the level of 350 million PLN per year. She should get over PLN 1 billion if the subscription was paid in this dimension. A loss due to the failure of Polish Television to interrupt broadcasts and films Because, as the High Chamber knows perfectly well, commercial televisions can interrupt broadcasts and broadcast advertising, and public television cannot do so. They are estimated at PLN 350 million per year. So, as we can see, Poland's Television is actually financed without public funding. That's important too. [[Mr. Senator, was that a question or an answer?]] It was a question... [[But how many free speeches does the Prime Minister and the President have?]] ...doesn't the Senator rapporteur think that it is therefore necessary to finance public television with the amount of PLN 980 million. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, for prolonging. [[But this case was already closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u123	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u124	Thank you very much. First of all, when it comes to these health-prevention offices... They are described in the Act of 15 September 2017, which was recently adopted by us, with specific solutions to improve the quality and availability of health care services. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 16c point 2 of the Around Budget Act states that in respect of schools for which no grant applications have been submitted, local government units may apply for this grant to the competent voivodeship. So we're talking here about the creation of these health prevention offices in schools that weren't covered by applications for subsidies from previously available funds. As I understand it, the Minister confirms my interpretation of this law. 'Cause we didn't really get into that at the committee meeting that deep. But when I read the article. 16c, which explicitly states that it is a question of applying for grants to schools for which such an application has not been made before, I understand that here we are simply extending the number of offices that will operate in schools. It's important... I saw the Minister volunteering. Mr. Marshal, would you mind filling in? [[In time.]] In time. Then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. The bill's design was... [[Yet...]] Would the senator like to continue the question? [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u126	...but the Senator didn't answer my second question. The question was: do you think that this amount of PLN 980 million is justified by the rapporteur? I'm sure there's been a discussion about that. I talk about TV all the time. [[But we've talked about this, Mr. Senator Jackowski.]] [[Yeah, I...]] Was there a discussion about this? [[Yes. Previously on "The Dead..."]] [[Two hours.]] [[We've been discussing this for two hours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u127	Yes, of course, we discussed this. In our understanding, this amount is as reasonable as possible, which results from the need to repay those commitments which exist practically outside the budget. [[Thank you...]] They were not visible in the budget, however, due to losses arising from the financing of television from 2010 to 2017, resulting from the exemptions adopted by Parliament. The Parliaments of the previous term of office, when adopting the licence waivers, did not provide public television with means to offset this loss, allowing public service broadcasting to be carried out in accordance with the needs set out in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u128	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Mr. Marshal, I took the floor and presented the information together...]] You don't want to speak. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: At the moment, no.]] Minister, thank you very much. At the moment, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Who of the senators wants to ask you a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski, and then Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Could you complete my knowledge and ignorance of Senator Bierecki's increase in debt over the last two years? And the accompanying question: which of the European Union countries or how many such countries are there In recent years, it has reached a balanced balance, or surplus? The second question: is Senator Bierecki's opinion correct, as if a favourable policy for Poland, I think, because we are talking about Poland, is there any further debt? And what is the cost of handling this debt in this or next financial year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u130	Minister, please come to the bleacher. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, because my name has been invoked, I'd like to be corrected...]] In corrigendum mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u131	Yeah, in corrigendum mode. Senator Rulewski didn't understand my statement at all. I'm not saying that actually borrowing from any... I'm saying there's nothing wrong with the country's debt. The structure of his debt, which is the answer to the question in which currency and with whom the country is in debt, is important. That was the point of my speech, perhaps too complicated... Senator Rulewski didn't understand what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u132	Thank you. The Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u133	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to comment on the debt question, because the senator has repeatedly raised this issue, and the question of debt has also been raised in one or the other Senator's statement. As far as public debt is concerned, i.e. public debt according to national methodology, I would like to distinguish that right away. We have a national methodology and an EU methodology, so to speak. According to the national methodology, this is a public debt, according to the methodology used by the European Commission it is a debt of the general government sector, so-called. GG, which is the government and local government sector. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the data I have on me today, these are the data on implementation at the end of 2016. As far as the GG sector debt is concerned, this is 54.1% Of course, it's about debt-to-GDP ratio. On the other hand, for 2017, this is 53.8%. This is the level for 2017. The same level is assumed for 2018, i.e. we assume to maintain this level for the next 2 years. I would also like to stress that the debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease to 46.2% in the subsequent years in the objectives of the debt management strategy of the public finance sector for the period 2018 in 2021. The second point I would like to stress is this. Of course, we are talking about the debt-to-GDP ratio, we are giving values. But I think it's important to have a certain benchmark at the same time, because as we compare any indicators and measurements, Here I say this from the experience of conducting statistical surveys We always compare them to the benchmark. Well, I'd like to say that as far as the general government debt-to-GDP ratio is concerned, this is, I remind you, 54.1% , as far as Poland is concerned, compared to 83.2% across the European Union, this is the weighted average and 88,9% in euro area countries. So I would also like to give the right proportions to those numbers that we use: 54.1% versus 83.2% as regards the weighted average in the Member States of the European Union, and an even higher level, nearly 89% , in the euro area countries. As far as nominal values are concerned... Because if I wrote it right, the senator also asked for nominal values. [[Yeah, yeah.]] These nominal values we have were verified at the end of the second quarter. These data are indeed after verification. At the end of the third quarter, we do not yet have such verified data. The public debt, which is what I mentioned, when talking about this national methodology, is 977.2 billion, while the government debt, i.e. the GG debt, is PLN 1 trillion. That's an increase of 9.7 billion. So much for nominal values and data at the end... [[And in two years, how much did it increase? That was the question.]] This is where I've had the data since the beginning of the year. Two-year-old data, if you don't mind, we'll be filling in in in writing, too. It's just about the years 2016 and 2017, I understand. [[Yes.]] Good. If such data is needed, I will complete it in writing. As for the share of debt in foreign currencies, this is the 31.4%. These are the most up-to-date data we have today. The share of debt vis-à-vis non-residents is 52,1%. By comparison, I have some data here for the last years. In 2016, the share of foreign currency debt was 34.4% , in 2015 34.9% So here we see a downward trend. The share of debt to non-residents as regards specific figures in 2016 was 53.4% , and in 2015 58.1%. The senator also mentioned the cost of handling the debt. As far as debt costs are concerned, here is a clear downward trend, resulting both from the fact that we have lower interest rates, because this is also something that needs to be mentioned, but also from the fact that this year, as you probably know, I just want to remind you that Poland withdrew from a flexible credit line, which also generated certain costs. [[It's not until next year that the result will be seen.]] Yes, the effect will also be visible in the next year. The reduction in the cost of handling the Treasury's debt in 2018 according to our forecasts will be 1.49% compared to GDP. By comparison, in 2016 it was 1.72% , and in 2017 1,54% after the amendment, and before the amendment, 1,57%. We have 600 million debt savings this year. [[Great. But how much is...]] [[Voice from the room: 600 million.]] [[No.]] [[No, no.]] [[Mr. Senator, please formulate the question.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the question was what is the cost of service, not what is the percentage of GDP.]] [[At break, set it up.]] Okay, well, in a minute... [[Preferably in writing.]] [[In writing.]] As for the exact number, I'd like a moment of patience. [[Good.]] I'm gonna figure out what 1.54% of GDP is. And in a moment, I'll give the details to the senator. So much for explaining the debt. There was also a question about the senator's debt to GDP in other countries. That's what I have, too, but I wouldn't want to quote it. [[Good.]] I just have this board. If the senator wishes, we'd be very happy to make such a statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u134	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u135	Minister, I would like to know more about the details, so to speak, increase and purchase the shares of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. As I understand it, the goal is to make this agency more efficient, but if the Minister wanted to justify the 100 million issue more closely, I would be very grateful. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Mr. Marshal, answer immediately or otherwise...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u136	Answer me right away, because that's the last question. [[The voice from the room: No, it's still gonna be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u137	As far as the Polish Investment and Trade Agency is concerned, what will the funds be earmarked for? I understand that I can bring the senator's question to this point. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to mention that this year this State Investment and Trade Agency... This is a new entity, which was established by the Act of 7 July 2017, and it was appointed to carry out tasks in the field of promotion of the Polish economy. And as far as these additional shares are concerned, here, in terms of demand, in the plans we have, it is advisable, above all, to strengthen the promotion of exports. In addition, with regard to the plans of this agency, there are tasks concerning the promotion of the Polish economy. It is also about the agency, maintaining and carrying out promotional activities in other countries in relation to foreign investment. That's all I can tell you in a nutshell when it comes to complex demand. So these are mainly, I would say, goals of promoting the Polish economy and supporting foreign investment in this dimension, which have been defined by regulations. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u138	Senator Jackowski wants to ask. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u139	Yeah, I'd like to ask, 'cause that's what it's... I know this agency is a new creation. But it is also some continuation of Interpress, an agency still from old times, the Polish People's Republic, which gradually evolved. But here's the phrase: Buying and acquiring these shares... I mean, what is the share capital of this agency right now, and to what extent will the 100 million, so to speak, change in relation to the initial capital of this institution? That's my first question. And the other one, which is already unrelated. Namely, or in this... Should we expect some act to update the budget for 2017 this year, in view of the very good situation of the state budget? I'm asking you this in terms of the coming end of the year. It's just, is the government planning any more of those kind of laws that we're supposed to look at before Christmas? I was grateful for the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would also like to ask for such data as Senator Rulewski had previously asked for, i.e. the increase in debt and cost of service, but for the years 2008 to 2015. Just maybe I'd ask you to answer in writing, 'cause I think it's easier that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u142	Thank you very much. And Senator Czarnobaj... [[Voice from the room: Czerwinski.]] Czerwinski, I'm sorry about... And then Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aim of this law is to address issues consistent with the amendments to the budget law, but there are typically procedural provisions here... It's about art. 16c. If you could just take a look... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Teresa Czerwińska: Excuse me, may I have a look?]] Yes, yes, of course, because it's important. [[Of course.]] So here's the deal. 16c. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 is obvious: a special reserve is created. And then there's the mouth. It is practically the procedure for implementing this law, but at the level of local governments and schools, or actually local authorities. The same procedure is provided for in the Law on Special Solutions to improve the quality and availability of healthcare services. And now the question. I mean, my first charge. For now in quotes, we will see what the answer to the second question will be. This is the case: shouldn't we refer to the procedure set out in the Act at issue, namely the Law on Specific Solutions to Improve the Quality and Availability of Healthcare Services? The rules of procedure are addressed to local governments, and local governments aren't going to be looking for... The addressee of these provisions places his attention elsewhere On the original law, not around the budget. That's once. Two. Please note that there are some inconsistencies here, perhaps even contradictions. Well, I read it clearly: Ust. 2. Local government unit for schools for which no grant applications have been submitted as referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Law of 15 September 2017 on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of health care services and now, note - within the time limit referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of this law, i.e. the one with special solutions to improve... I find this art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3. And what am I reading? Local government units within 5 days of the date of entry into force of the Act... That law entered into force exactly on 26 September. All the terms have already been exemplified if you literally read this recipe. That law was an accident act and gave very short time limits 5 days from the date of entry into force. Therefore, it would be necessary to refer to the date of entry into force of the around budget law. I don't know if I'm making myself clear, Minister. We refer here to a term that no longer applies. It'll be an empty law unless we bend it or interpret it in some other way. All of this is due to the confusion of two modes, which were placed in two different laws concerning the same matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind... Soon, next month we will be debating the 2018 Budget Act. If it were possible, I would ask that the Minister should have the materials with him then, let us not look too deeply for the deficit in 2014, 2015, 2016 and the forecast deficit for 2017. I am also interested in the amount of debt repayment for both foreign and domestic entities in the same years, given in absolute figures, not in percentage, because it is easy to find in percentage. The point is that later, different people take different data on the size of GDP. If it's okay, I'd ask the Minister to have it with her during the January discussion. It'd be easier for us then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u146	Thank you very much. We're finishing this round of questions. I'm asking the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u147	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! First, the question you asked the senator about the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. I don't have any materials on me, but if I remember correctly, the initial capital, according to the statutes, is 35 or 40 million zlotys. In order not to make any mistake here, I would ask you to be able to reply in writing. I'd like to check it out with you about the gold and tell you what the statute says. On the second question, on the legislative issue, which Mr Czerwiński pointed out, namely the article. 16c of the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, I would like to explain how these provisions are here. What was the reason for this kind of legislation to be included in the around budget bill? Appropriations which were originally earmarked for offices It is about the implementation of the Law of 15 September 2017 on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of healthcare services, namely PLN 134 million. The deadline for local authorities to apply for these measures was too short. It is therefore necessary to include additional solutions in this amendment and in the Around Budget Act to amend the Budgetary Act so that this deadline can be extended and that local governments can apply for these measures. That's where the solution came from. And one more thing I'd like to complete. On the basis of the solutions mentioned by the senator, further points of these provisions have been extended to the beneficiary circle. These schools have emerged under the supervision of the relevant ministers. The relevant provisions are therefore included here. As far as typically legislative comments are concerned, I can say that at the stage of the Government's Legislative Centre's work such comments were not raised as regards the art of legislation itself and the drafting, drafting of legislation. If the senator would allow it... I see Minister Głowala, Deputy Minister of Health. If you would allow me, I would ask you to supplement my reply on the procedure for allocating funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u148	Yes, of course. If the Minister wants to give an answer, maybe from the spot... Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u149	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just trying to make amends. The rule is consistent with the art of legislation. The provision states that a local government unit in the field of schools for which no application for a grant referred to in Article has been submitted. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Law of 15 September 2017 on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of health care services are the persons referred to in Article. 6 of that law within the time limit referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3... That is, a local government unit which has not submitted an application within the time limit laid down in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Act, may apply for this grant to the competent voivode. As I'm saying, the one who didn't file a grant application for the right voivodeship. This provision provides that local government units which have not submitted this application within the time limit laid down in the Act may apply for a grant to the voivodeship. Everything legislatively is correct. The Sejm Analysis Office, the Senate Analysis Office and the Government Legislative Centre have not submitted any comments. The point is that this grant must be settled no later than 15 December 2017. And one more word. There was a meeting with the voivodships, the Ministry of Education sent out information about the possibility of using these funds within this reserve. So that both local self-government units, formation bodies and voivodships know about this additional possibility to use these funds to equip health prevention offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u150	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u151	Mr. Marshal, I did not get the answer to my second question, and it concerned whether this year we should still expect such laws, i.e. an amendment of the budget for 2017... [[This year? It's November.]] I'm talking about the budget of 2017. I'm not talking about next year's budget. By using the Minister's declaration on the written reply on the founding capital of this agency, I would ask that the question of spending 100 million PLN be clarified in this reply as well. It is about the purpose of this agency, apart from the increase in this capital, of these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u152	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but as far as the novel is concerned, I've taken care of calculating the percentage of GDP, and perhaps from here I'm not paying attention. I've already got the answer, which is nominally what this debt is, not percentage to GDP, but... But, as I can see, Senator Rulewski is not here right now. I understand you mean the Senator's second revision of the 2017 budget. Today I have no knowledge of the second amendment. That's all I can answer. As far as the Polish Investment and Trade Agency is concerned, we will, of course, break down the amount of expenditure in detail. I just want to say that taking up shares, i.e. a contribution of 100 million to the exercise of these ownership rights and thus the acquisition by the Minister of Share Capital of the Agency, does not mean that he must spend the 100 million in 2018. Just like in any company, just like in any company. We will therefore present the plans for 2018. But I would point out in advance that most likely, with a high probability, this will not be a 100 million-dollar expense, i.e. a capital injection will also be spent in future years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u155	Thank you very much. We probably wouldn't continue the TVP discussion here, but the senator provoked me. Then I'll go over the subject and ask the Minister something. During my speech, I said that TV received a loan from BGK. I checked, I made a mistake. This was supposed to be from BGK, but ultimately this loan was granted from a government fund for the victims as a result of the unlawful nationalisation of property by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Last year, the government made some kind of a myk and introduced the possibility to finance the Treasury companies from this fund. That's how he could have paid the money. But by the way, I found out that 30 million were also paid out last year to recapitalisation television. So last year, additional money went from the state budget to recapitalisation of TVP of 30 million. And I would like to ask why not BGŻ, which is also 100% property of the State Treasury. Why this fund? If you'd care to explain... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u156	Thank you very much. Are there any more requests for questioning? Then maybe we can close the list. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u157	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I just didn't want to volunteer and take the floor, but Senator. That's what I wrote down. She said about credit at all. So it really wasn't a loan. Confirmed: it was a loan from the Reprivatization Fund. This is a state-owned special-purpose fund. So that the loan was granted in the amount of PLN 800 million. I would just like to add to what the senator rightly said, that on behalf of the Treasury, the loan is given by the President of the Council of Ministers On behalf of the State Treasury. As for the answer to the senator's question, why not BGŻ... At this point, It's hard to tell. I know that... [[Why not BGK?]] The lady said: BGŻ. Why don't you... [[Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.]] National. [[Originally, it's been said all along...]] ...that Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. [[...that this money will be from BGK, which is wholly, 100% owned by the State Treasury. It was supposed to be a loan from BGK. And I'm asking why not a loan from BGK or a commercial bank, but a loan from this fund.]] With regard to the answer to the question why it is not the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, at this moment I find it difficult to respond, however. As said before, as the Minister said In fact, I can confirm that a private investor test has been carried out and the loan has been granted on a commercial basis. And in addition to that, perhaps the senator will be asking for this loan, I can say that the loan is granted in tranches. These tranches are... 200 million PLN by 31 August was the first tranche of the loan that was given to television. The second tranche is 300 million by the end of November of this year. As far as repayment conditions are concerned, I don't want to quote a contract that I'm not authorized to do. I can say that a fine has been fixed for the payment of capital instalments until 2019. This means that capital instalments will be paid from 2019 onwards. Currently, Poland's Television pays interest rates which are paid at current interest rates, i.e. three months WIBOR plus a margin, i.e. 3.53%. That's all I can say about answering the question about the loan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u158	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for answering all your questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Rulewski, Jackowski and Swedes. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Zdrojewska was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u159	We'll get back to the subject soon enough. Mr. Senator Jackowski, while you were away, we have really spent a lot of time here on public television, talking about it quite substantively, as I say, and focusing also on, among others. to her financial situation, which I allow myself to describe as fatal, and even, I would say, appalling. The more I dig, the more it scares me. In the meantime, I checked the other files. For several years I was the head of the budget committee in the big city, in my beloved Wrocław, and I must say that somewhere in me she spoke such... I had the pleasure of finding certain things as before. And even though I'm working on the culture committee right now... But here we sort of combine these two things. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that this loan, which we are talking about, how I realized and as the Minister said just now, was not taken up... it was not a loan taken in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, but it was intended for this, a personal decision... by decision of the Prime Minister, money from a special fund for the victims as a result of the unlawful nationalisation of property by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. For this fund, anyway... By the way, it was also agreed to use this fund to allocate money to other companies. That's why I've been asking, because it seems pretty interesting. I also realized that last year the Polish Television was also recapitalized with the amount of PLN 30 million... Polish Television and Polish Radio, probably some kind of field branch. That was about PLN 30 million. So, ladies and gentlemen, right now it looks like this. Let me recap for Senator Jackowski. We now have 980 million... nearly 1 billion, which we are currently spending in the budget... We have a loan of 800 million this year, the loan we're talking about. We also have a decline in revenue from advertising in the middle of this year and this year, so in no case can we say about the good financial situation of the Polish Television. We can talk about an unprecedented, extremely fatal situation. And that already requires, in my opinion, some kind of intervention, a real interest in the Minister of Finance And I'm paying attention to that. The situation of the company at the moment. The money that now comes from the state budget So it's going to be almost 2 billion in less than a few months. They're gonna fund... Except there it will actually be spread over several tranches. But let me remind you that this is the money that will only be returned, as the Minister has just said, since 2019. So right now, television is going to owe you money that you're going to be paying from 2019 to 2023, which is when you may not be in charge anymore. I draw attention to what kind of These are loans and what kind of money they are. You have rightly said to Senator Bierecki that this is for the years 2007 and 2010 that this is compensation for the subscription at that time. Well, Senator Bierecki said that, and I'll remind you that no one, I mean, has ever compensated television for such a huge amount of money, and that television somehow from a very difficult situation... Indeed, all the presidents were tightening their teeth and complaining. We remember a very difficult situation in the days of President Braun But somehow they came out of this situation without such a direct grant from the state budget, taking out any loans or... I'm not exactly familiar with the credit situation of TV right now. I know about 30 million recapitalisations received from the Prime Minister last year, and I know about the money we're about to spend, which is this billion, and I know about 800 million loans. But, ladies and gentlemen, we do not yet know the current credit situation, we do not know which loans the company has, and the company generally does not want to disclose this type of data. I draw attention to the fact that this is an unprecedented situation. No government has ever given the Polish Television a billion from the budget, and somehow this television had to cope. Credits, yes, have been borrowed, but let me remind you that here we are dealing with a huge, unimaginable loan of 800 million. And then TV gets a billion... One more thing for you to know: we have information about the fatal situation in PAP, where the boss left from at the moment. And on the radio, as we can tell, it's terrible. It's very bad, very bad. We talked about the fact that changes in the laws, but also sometimes changes in the presidents, changes in the form of controls can lead to this kind of situation. I've been very allergic to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not plan to speak at this point, but because Senator Zdrojewska argued with my statement, I decided to take the floor and comment on the questions I asked during the examination of this point. Well, there probably wouldn't have been a bill, Mrs. Member, if it hadn't been for the government of Donald Tusk. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] The issue of carbon deputies was raised at the time when Donald Tusk was Prime Minister. The issue of reducing the revenues from the subscription was clear at the moment when Donald Tusk suggested that Poles should not pay the subscription. [[Senator Barbara Zdrojewska: But it's already...)]] [[Finish your work.]] Let me remind you that we discussed this issue at a time when you were not in the Senate yet, and the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council was Mr Jan Dworak. I asked him in the context of the Committee on Culture and Media's examination of what the downloadability of the subscription looked like. And President Dworak himself admitted that the result of Mr Donald Tusk's speech was a drastic reduction in the impact of the subscription. So I understand that all you said later was that it was a smokescreen for why we have to work on this bill right now. Thank you. [[Excuse me, ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u163	Ad vocem. Dear Senator, on this bill, we must work on this billion today only because you have not been able to prepare a subscription bill or any other form of charge for Polish Television for two years. You didn't find any funding... So that you can prepare a bill, please prepare a project. Well, I'm not gonna be doing it for law and justice. That's the only reason we're doing this... e.g. That's why, not only because, as a result, I don't hesitate to say it... There were allegations of mismanagement here. This has to be checked, because it is very bad on Polish Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u165	I'm in corrigendum mode because the senator was referring to me. This amount of nearly PLN 1 billion is in fact compensation for Donald Tusk's words. Because as Senator Bierecki pointed out, as he pointed out, the draft law clearly states that this amount of more than PLN 980 million is compensation for the non-imposition of proceeds from the subscription for the years 2010 and 2017. And from this point of view it can be said that the Polish taxpayer must pay for the fact that at one time Donald Tusk called for nonpayment. And that's all I wanted to say. And the issue of the functioning of the financial economy on public television is a separate topic. We discussed this with President Jack Kurski during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, so that there was quite a high level of information on this subject. I would like to refer those concerned to the transcript of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u166	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Tax Ordination. The text of the Act is contained in print No 627, and the report of the Commission In print No 627 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission for Budgets and Public Finances dealt with this law on 8 November. It was a government project adopted on 27 October. After having read this law, the committee shall request that it be adopted without amendment. This is a decision that has been taken unanimously. I can say two elements, because this bill refers to two issues. As regards the first point, the Act clarifies that the various types of analytical documents that the National Tax Administration collects will be documents in tax proceedings. And the second point, very important and very important... Well, it is known that this clarification is intended to seal the tax system. The second area covered by this law is information that taxpayers can obtain about their counterparties, information in 3 areas of tax law. Firstly, it is about whether or not our counterparty has submitted certain tax returns to which he was obliged; secondly, whether he has submitted them correctly; thirdly, whether he is in arrears with taxes or not in arrears with taxes. This is intended to ensure greater certainty in economic trade. As I said, this law was not controversial, it was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting. Neither did the Legislative Office raise any objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u168	Thank you very much. Currently, senators can report from the place for no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does the representative of the government wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may report from the place for a maximum of one minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! One quick question. We offer the possibility to use the analytical documentation of the National Tax Administration. This administration already works a little bit, and it is also the successor of certain authorities. So the question is: is there a transitional provision in the Act that would allow this documentation to be applied to these already ongoing tax proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u170	Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to ask your opinion as to whether the proposed change regarding the possibility of obtaining information on the taxable person's business contractor after excluding tax confidentiality rules will actually affect the assessment of the accuracy of his tax accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u172	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The provision amending the existing tax legislation, which refers to the fact that documents resulting from analytical activities will be evidence in the proceedings, is a provision which actually clarifies exactly what is evidence in tax proceedings. Of course, the current provision of tax ordination in the article. 180 expressly states that the evidence in the proceedings is everything that can contribute to the clarification of the case and which is not illegal, but in this way we want to clarify, clarify the definition of evidence in the proceedings and we want to say that precisely as a result of analytical actions... these materials are also evidence. Answering Question Two If the introduction of an amendment to the tax authority on the possibility of future counterparties sending a question to the tax authority will increase the safety of business activity, I state clearly that it will certainly affect. We don't know how much, but it's definitely going to be a big percentage. And it will certainly improve relations between economic operators and increase economic security in the country. So much for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Swede would like to ask? No? Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u175	Mr. Marshal, if I may... Isn't a transitional provision needed? Because that's the most important thing in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u176	There's no need for that. The provision that we are introducing is a provision that merely clarifies and makes it more concrete, as there have been many questions from taxpayers, many fears from this point of view. Tax law should be literal, clear and clear because it has financial implications, and we would therefore just like to clarify the definition of what is evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u177	Senator Swede, right? One more thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u178	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would also like to ask, is there an increase in the number of jobs in establishments due to the increase in the number of certificates issued?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u179	We do not anticipate an increase in the number of jobs, but we anticipate an allocation of staff resources. Of course, the National Tax Administration, the newly established National Tax Administration, is in the process of reforming, so to speak, building the effectiveness of our actions. Therefore, we will certainly be allocating personnel in many areas, and we are working on it. And we will certainly be able to ensure that these certificates are issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u180	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The text of the Act is contained in print No 628 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 628 A and 628 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Act on the Organisation of Certain Agricultural Markets. The Sejm passed the Act on 27 October 2017, and the committee leaned over that Act on 8 November 2017. After a brief discussion on behalf of the committee, I recommend that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. The purpose of this resolution is mainly to seal the tax... seal the grey zone Ooh, that's how I'm gonna put it. As far as the tobacco industry is concerned. Let me just say that last year, in 2016, the services closed down 72 illegal tobacco factories and requisitioned 44 million cigarettes and 200 tons of drought. So it's a very important bill. I therefore recommend once again to the High House that the law be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Unfortunately, Mr Chróścikowski is not in Senator Chróścikowski's room right now, which is why I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 42 to 15 minutes 47]] You're Senator Chróścikowski now, so I'm reopening the session. I ask the senator as rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u183	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Agriculture Committee on October 27th... sorry, which took place on November 8th. We have considered the point where we discussed how the excise change is to be introduced. This is particularly true for tobacco, tobacco trade. The Commission has supported the proposed amendments and proposes that the law be adopted without amendments. Of course, there were some comments from the Legislative Bureau. The Ministry of Finance considers that these comments which have been submitted are not significant and that this is sufficient to be a solution proposed by the government. I would like to point out that the majority of the Sejm supported this law, so that there were not many comments in the Sejm. So much for this... Mostly it is the excise trade, that is, the tobacco trade, which is in the possession of farmers, producer groups, and the sealing of what was thought to have to be sealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u184	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address the question to the representative of the budget committee. My question is this: is the notification to the National Agricultural Support Centre of the intention to grow tobacco in accordance with the amendment to be carried out once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u186	The Act clearly states that once a year, until 15 April, the producer is to report such information to the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre. The law also describes in detail what this proposal is to look like.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u187	Thank you very much. Since there are no further questions, thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to point 2 of Senator Czarnobaj made such proposals, and point 2 concerns the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017 I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 648 and the report of the Commission In print No 648 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to report on behalf of the 2nd Committee on the work that took place yesterday at the request of the Minister, who asked to implement this amendment of the law as soon as possible. The change is short and will cause the property which is in the hands of the Agricultural Property Agency to be transferred to the Treasury companies. This short amendment does not affect the general provisions of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. The Minister is preparing... There are now wider changes in the consultation on the revision of the agricultural system law, and we will soon have a detailed discussion on this subject. And as I say, it's a short change. Both committees supported the proposal for a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u189	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. A government representative for strategic energy infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Mr Marshal, if I may, briefly.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this very short amendment was proposed because it was necessary to facilitate the purchase of agricultural land by strategic gas, electricity and fuel transmission operators. The point is that there is no danger that during the procedure which, in accordance with the Act on the formation of the agricultural system at the moment, all operators... so that it does not turn out that the land that is needed to carry out the statutory activities of these operators is in the interest of other persons, in particular individual farmers, so... The procedure which at the moment applies to all, must be carried out before consent to purchase by, let's call it, non-agricultural entity by the director of KOWR. And that's why it's an amendment. This concerns a very limited number of companies with a 100% share of the State Treasury. This is without prejudice to the idea of a law on the formation of an agricultural system, which is an idea of controlling the rotation of land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u191	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report... There will be a question, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, two years ago a law was passed on the formation of the agricultural system. This example of the amendment shows what the legal framework is. During the debate on this law almost two years ago, we tabled amendments to the bill and talked about what it could result in. As these two years of validity of the Act show, the Act restricts investment. This amendment shows that it limits. It reduced the turnover of land, and this is statistically to prove, it lowered the prices of land, it is also statistically to prove, and it also led to more land being sold to foreigners during the PiS governments during these 2 years than during the Civil Platform and PSL governments, and the statistical yearbook shows. And here's my question: what was your department doing two years ago that he didn't bring these amendments to the bill during the process? And as this amendment shows, as well as the amendment that was proposed by your department regarding the restructuring of mines... We had to update this bill, too, because the mines couldn't buy land, because this law limited... And my question is, is the fact that in this short period of time we've amended this bill twice the result of the incompetence of your department or the result of the sloppyness of your officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u193	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u194	Mr. Senator, this is a series of questions that already contain your answers. I, first of all, would like to correct I do not represent the Ministry of Agriculture, although the amendment I am presenting here has the full support and positive opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. That's one thing. Secondly, it's just that... you see, in the discussion that the senator was in? It was very difficult to draw up an enumerative list of exemptions from the general rule and rigour which we decided to introduce. So another method has been used, which we are implementing right now. A rather restrictive law has been introduced, but economic life shows where it should be loosened. This is the method that leads us to a state where earth control will be preserved. Just as the idea of this law provided for and as it is now in place Easies will be made in these necessary cases at the same time. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question concerns terminology. We're just talking about licences to transfer liquid fuels. Does it involve gas, or doesn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u197	Mr. Senator, I'll answer right away. The second part of this definition shows that the Act covers the gas transmission system operator, i.e. the Gas-System. In fact, this law includes 2 operators and 1 company with a 100% share of the State Treasury: PSE, Gaz-System and PERN with his daughter OLPP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u198	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, that's a very interesting concept. First of all, we say that nothing is allowed, and then we look at what economic life brings, and we propose that... I'm curious about the countries where it is. But my question is different. I think I'm gonna read something about it because I don't know this country. But maybe I'll find a country like this. In which, first, a strict rule is introduced that nothing is allowed and then something is loosened. But my question is different, Minister. I understand that the Minister is responsible for strategic things, i.e. for things related to energy transmission. Do you, in dealing with all that the Minister is responsible for, at the construction stage of this bill, which the Minister is now proposing to amend, not know... Has the Minister submitted a request to the Minister of Agriculture and the authors of the Act so that what the Minister is doing will be included in the bill so that it will not be amended later? Of course, it contains other things that are about to come out. Did the Minister make such a request? That's what I'm interested in: yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u200	No, I haven't applied for that. We did not make such a proposal because in the government at that time we assumed that this comprehensively treated by the Ministry of Agriculture should be introduced without these, you can say, special exemptions, i.e. without lex specialis for particular sectors, sectors or types of economic operators. No, I haven't applied for that. However, now we really do think that this is needed, and in addition, just to clarify... I mean, it's understandable, isn't it? Why did we ask for a quick path for this amendment? We are in the process of merging 2 companies: PERN with its 100% daughter company, Logistics Operator of Liquid Fuels. And as part of this process, we need to move 167 parcels with the status of agricultural parcels owned by OLPP to this new economic entity, formally new. There is no agricultural activity, but they are formally subject to this regime and are needed to carry out statutory activities. We want to avoid a situation where any of these parcels could just go to the market. And that's the reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u201	Senator Blackbay wants to ask. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u202	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Minister, one more brief question. I, of course, believe that this is a move in the right direction. I'm just surprised to hear that logic, but okay. I have this question: Minister, as regards your responsibility with regard to this law, which is in force today and which will apply after this change, which we are talking about here today, this amendment is already exhausting your needs, or may it still happen that, after thinking about the matter, the Minister will say: however, we still have shortcomings as to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u203	Senator, from the point of view of the needs of operators, these strategic operators, this is absolutely sufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Chróścikowski reporting for discussion? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say two more words of explanation, because my colleagues are kind of... For your information: this law is not new, this law has been in force for a long time and it has been amended many times. I have information that on 11 April 2003 it entered into force, so let's see how long this law lasts. There were therefore many such amendments. These restrictions were less, now there is a little more, but only because it was farmers themselves who protested and demanded to limit land trading using speculative capital. These exacerbations were introduced at the request of farmers. The farmers demanded that the earth be sealed, and they are very pleased that the price of the land has fallen. Farmers are not in favour of paying speculative prices for land. What a colleague mentioned here, speaking of the fact that the price has fallen, is one of the important elements. The land in Europe is overrated at all, as the cost of purchasing land is never returned even after 15 years of exploitation, management, and sometimes it takes 20 and 30 years for it to pay off. In general, the land in the European Union is revalued. One factor... Today we even had a discussion here from the KOWR about the fact that there is a great danger that the European Union will withdraw direct payments and support agriculture in the new perspectives. This threatens a huge increase in agricultural product prices and a sharp fall in agricultural land prices. The example is that in the two thousandth... I'm sorry, in the years 1995 and 1997 nobody wanted to buy land because it wasn't profitable. And when the agricultural policy gets swayed And all the time there's pressure, withdrawal... globalization of world markets... Then it will be a huge threat if today we continue to lift the price of the land for Polish farmers. Because the agricultural land is to be rotated between farmers and not for speculative purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Kilian, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u207	Yes. I have a question for the president because... I asked that question to the Minister... [[I'm sorry, but now there's a discussion.]] Okay, that's a corrigendum. How will you answer my question about the fact that, during the period of validity of this law, foreigners were sold... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but you're asking a question.]] No. Correct in the sense that... [[There are no questions for Senator Chróścikowski now.]] ...Mr. Chairman, the senator has indicated that this law restricts the sale of land. During the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, foreigners were sold less land than during the period of the restrictive law. Well, that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u208	Okay, I'll take that as a voice in the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The text of the Act is contained in print No 650 and the committee report In print No 650 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Rafał Ślusarz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u209	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm here to introduce you. The High Senate's law on amending the law on the income of local government units, adopted at the 50th first meeting of the Sejm. The Act is a parliamentary submission and allows local governments to benefit from grants in areas of interest to the Minister for National Defence. The first area is the construction and revitalization of shooting galleries. The Ministry thus responds to the bottom-up needs of pro-defence organisations, shooting organisations, sports organisations and hunters' associations, while at the same time pursuing its own objectives through the creation of small-scale infrastructure, in order to promote training among citizens and secure training places for troops, including in particular the Territorial Defence Forces. This law is also an opportunity for local authorities to carry out investments they could not carry out due to lack of resources. The second area covered by the law is the construction and renewal of places of commemoration of triumph, glory and fame of Polish weapons. The funding of both tasks will be provided by the Armed Forces Financing Act. The National Defence Commission, together with the local government committee, held a debate on the law on 14 November 2017. The Senate's Legal Office didn't raise any objections. No amendments were tabled. In the course of the discussion with Minister Michał Dworczyk, the Commission, after a vote in which 8 senators were in favour, 2 were against and 1 abstained, recommends that the High Senate adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u210	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing... [[Voice from the room: He is, he is willing.]] Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u211	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, you said it was a bottom-up initiative, which is, I understand, a lot of applications have been received by the Minister. Did you have any information on how many applications have been received and from whom? Was this information presented at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u212	That information is in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The bottom-up initiative... I think the senator heard the word "bottom-up" in a different context, because it was a parliamentary initiative and I emphasized that. However, of course, there are many initiatives, including in my district, aimed at making it more accessible to shooters that had previously been liquidated, even though military units had been liquidated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u213	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u214	Is it true that the county authorities pointed out this issue as the most important issue in terms of funding? Is there any material that would prove it? I admit I've visited dozens of counties and no one's been asking for a shooting range. I'd like to know... Mr. Senator here says it's at the request of some group... what group, what number of people? What was claimed was, of course, money for dating. I am surprised at this hierarchy and I would like to hear some specific data and information about who requested it. That's the first thing. Second thing. Wasn't that kind of doubt raised at the committee meeting? These facilities are intended to serve the Territorial Defence Forces. Is it not, then, that we of these weak and poor financial districts want, well, not to force, because it is voluntary, but to encourage them to add something to the pool of huge money that these troops have at their disposal? Let the army build it in every county, that's okay. But let's not burden the county with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u215	I'm asking for an answer. [[I have a similar question, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[I will ask a similar question and the Minister will answer three questions.]] Good. Please, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u216	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me remind you that this is just an opportunity. I'd like you to confirm or deny it, Senator. It's just a possibility. Self-governments may participate in such small investments. The government doesn't order it, it creates an opportunity. I think the shooting range is very much needed. This can also be seen as a form of sport and entertainment. Let us also remember that this is not only for the Territorial Defence Army. This is for Polish society. When it comes to the people or organisations who have sought to do so, I can say that in the Podlaskie Voivodeship I can speak about this region because I am a senator from that district and I had many meetings there. It is requested by organisations that are interested in the military, which are associated with various types of historical regiments. Such organizations, at least as far as Białystok is concerned, are very, very many. Tell me, Senator, something I've asked before. Is this a warrant for poor counties, as the Senator for the previous speaker said? Well, the platforms were rich, and now they're poor... in my opinion it's the other way around. Or is it a good will and a chance to benefit from state funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u217	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u218	Senator Dobrzyński to some extent answered me because of the necessity to answer the question posed by Senator Augustyn. It is, of course, an opportunity to use money. In an attempt to give a precise answer to Senator Augustine, I would focus on what I was talking about in the preliminary presentation of the bill, on the fact that there are two issues connected here that are needed bottom-up, which are reported by local governments and organizations, and the goals of the Ministry of National Defence. These things coincide here. Of course, local governments are sovereign and will decide whether they want to take this initiative. I think Senator Augustine will agree with me that this type of initiative increases security and is needed by the military. As a result, I am a little surprised at the reservations to this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u219	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u220	Senator, I don't think you should be surprised. I notice and emphasize something like this: if there is such a need for the Territorial Defence Army, it's hard to imagine that the military would be addicted to some extent. That's how this bill is constructed, so it's going to be. The construction of a shooting range from whether the county council will pay their respects or not, whether they want to or not. I want to point out that this is not a happy solution. If the military wants to build shooting galleries, let them build and make them available to the people. Otherwise, the rich districts that, instead of the road, want to make a shooting range, either do it, or do both, and the others won't do it, because they'll have different priorities. Isn't there gonna be a shooting range for the Territorial Defense Army? I'm showing some absurdity that emerges from this bill, and I'm wondering if you've talked about it in committee. [[Did you or didn't you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u221	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u222	Mr. Senator, I think that this absurdity that you see is built on the false premise that there is some antagonism in the perception of security and the good of Poland between self-government and central authority. I don't think you can make a construction like this. We all want security matters to be corrected as soon as possible, and therefore the proposal for cooperation between local authorities and central authorities, which makes such an offer, should be accepted by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u223	Senator Hare and then Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u224	Thank you very much. I'm going to go back to the bottom-up initiatives, because it was so exaggerated that... it turned out that these bottom-up initiatives were the initiatives of the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial defense forces are guided by their regulations, laws, regulations, and if they want a shooting range, they're probably gonna create it, they're not gonna be waiting for the county. But there are many other entities who are willing to use such a range, even uniformed classes. In my district there is an initiative that annually on the occasion of the celebration of the Polish Army of local governments, the League of Defense of the country and other institutions organize shooting competitions. Among those associated in the National Defence League there are plenty of players who participate in various competitions, winning prizes. As far as Podkarpackie Voivodeship is concerned, this is one of the types of sport... The shooting range will also help us to develop a healthy lifestyle, which is why I am very much in favour of creating a shooting range in each district. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would, of course, like to confirm what Senator Hare said, which means that there is a great interest in such shooting ranges, e.g. Academic Legion And I think this is a very good initiative, a great initiative. I have a question: did the Ministry of National Defense define any type of shooting range because they're different? What's the shooter's model? Is there a specific cost to a shooting range like this? Is it going to be similar everywhere, or is there going to be a bid for these shooting galleries? How do you see this in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u227	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Senator Hare inspired me to ask you a question because she had a very interesting line unfinished with a question mark. I'm gonna ask you straight, 'cause now I'm a little lost. I ask you to say this, straighten it out and say what it is like, because when you ask whether you as senators are in favour of supporting the initiative of building shooting galleries for recreational, educational purposes, etc., what the senator said is entirely legitimate, but as the senator says, these shooting galleries will also be used for defence purposes. I'm already starting to have doubts. So please be clear: whether the main task of these shooting galleries will be what concerns recreation and recreation, which means that it will be Orliks in terms of shooting, or whether you want to build these shooting galleries so that the Territorial Defence Army can use them, so that there is also such an element of the use of these shooting galleries. These are two different concepts and tasks. So how was the committee meeting? If you don't mind... [[I mean...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u229	There are no more questions. You're welcome... [[Senator Secretary Waldemar Sługocki: No, you're still Senator Czerwiński.]] Oh, and Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually have a simple question. Isn't it that the text of the Act doesn't narrow down the subject to the county, on the contrary, it's about local government units? I understand it that way, for example. such a shooting range in the county can be built in the central municipality of this district, because it is easier for the municipality to allocate its land to such a shooting range; this municipality also has more opportunities to maintain it. And it will be used by district schools, upper secondary schools, and soon extra-basic secondary schools, in which young people, e.g. She's gonna get into uniform class. And the necessary condition for such classes to be formed will be the possession of a shooting range in the county. And it's all gonna be about that. In the defense of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u231	And one last question. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, one question. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting, but I don't know, maybe you have more knowledge by studying the documents we talked about. In your opinion, it would be appropriate for the Ministry of National Defence to also ask the Minister about this issue later, of course. However, it has prepared a map of investment needs in this area and has possibly created criteria, objective criteria, on the basis of which it would be indicated... I suppose that such units of local government at the district level, but not only those that wish to build such facilities, will probably be many. Would it not be appropriate, then, to create a map and criteria that would determine this... As I presume, funds will be less than willing to implement these investments. Would it not be appropriate to create such criteria on the basis of which the Minister for National Defence or the Ministry would choose those local government units which would first receive funding? It is about the substantive criteria, the substance of the indications that would allow you to build a rating list, from the first to the last place. Those of the first places would first receive the funds until the amount is exhausted, and then eventually, in the following year. Okay, let's go. Let's go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u233	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u234	Mr. Senator Blackbay Once again, it's as if it's antagonized the 2 goals that these shooting galleries are supposed to serve, and I think the essence of this project is that these goals are going to be connected. They'll be connected. And here I answer to Senator Stanisławek. The idea is that the Ministry will co-finance these projects, which will also be useful for military exercises. They're gonna be... [[The Ministry of National Defense?]] [[He's giving money and he's entitled to use it.]] The Ministry of National Defence. Therefore, I think it is even appropriate that local targets are combined with central objectives. I don't see any contradiction in my speech, on the contrary, she's... [[Were you in the army?]] ...complimentary. I'll answer your questions in the cockroaches. Of course I was, I was. I don't know if you were, Senator. And I fired in the army... [[At the sports range or...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] I fired from the vending machine, Kalashnikov. [[At the sports range?]] [[Calm down, please.]] Military. [[Please respond calmly.]] I don't know why Senator Blackbay is so upset. [[Aggressive.]] I am now answering a rather specific question from Senator Stanisławek. Yeah, there was a discussion at the committee meeting about the cost of building a shooting range like this. The Minister stated that... Well, this cost, of course, involves what shooting range is going to be built, but meeting the ministerial conditions expected, because the project is not yet written down, it may cost 400 thousand PLN and more, it may be more expensive. The Ministry, in some polemics with some of the thesis that appeared in the media circulation concerning the global cost of this type of initiative, states that such an expected cost, this is currently considered several dozen million from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. I am saying this because the amount of 2.5 billion is persistently indicated as being a barrier, and it is combined with the other needs of the state and at such a time there are imbalances that have also appeared here, in the plenary room, i.e.. I think you could spend it on something else. Well, you can always spend money on something else. It's always a real sentence. Indeed, the Ministry, as we have heard from the Minister, creates certain criteria. The point is that these are shooting ranges that can serve the military, so the shore data is, let's say, at least 100 meters in the open space to allow long-arms practice, adequate security to make it a safe range. As a condition, I would say an additional one, which will also be considered... The Minister said that these projects would be preferred, which will be on the east wall, because there are already the Territorial Defence Forces, and these needs are clearly indicated there. So, let's say, the condition that the Ministry will want to achieve is that the military has access to such a shooting range, because the shooting range formula will be self-government, but the support of the project with the Ministry's money will involve the fact that military access should be provided there, i.e. so that the military can use such a shooting range in a manner that is right for itself and in accordance with the needs of such a shooting range. In a way, I also responded to Senator Slugock here, because the criteria to be met by these shooting galleries are in this description. Without the adoption of this law, it is not possible to work on more specific programmes on how it would look. Besides, there is another side, that is, local governments, which have to apply for these measures. And only after that will it be possible to assess what the scope of needs is and how these needs should be described.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u235	Thank you very much. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have the following question. Mechanics plants of Tarnów are among the various assortments and military equipment producing a container range. Can this kind of shooting range also be considered in these projects? [[There wasn't... Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u237	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u238	Well, that kind of specific question didn't come up at the committee meeting, so I think the minister's gonna answer it. But since it's a container range, as I understand it, it's closed, and as if we've established that this program involves gun range on an exposed spatial area.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u239	Are there any more... You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u240	So far, shooting galleries have been built with grants from the Ministry of Sports. Now, is this program for the Ministry of Sport's funding of shooting galleries going to be cut off somehow? Is there even a correlation with building shooting galleries with larger parameters and that they serve these two purposes over and over again? Was there any mention at the committee meeting of what would happen to that programme? Because the point is, we don't build shooting ranges from the Ministry of Sports grant now, and they don't meet the requirements and criteria that the senator was talking about. I think this correlation is necessary, but I don't know if it's been thought of.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u241	And Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u242	Mr. Senator, I have a question about keeping these shooting ranges. Do we know who's gonna pay the cost of these shooting range? If it were that... because I understand that these shooting galleries will be created within the framework of an agreement of local governments with the Ministry of National Defence, which means the Ministry will probably refuse to build a shooting range, if within a radius, let's assume, 60 km, there is no military unit. But let's assume the shooting range will be built and the military will be brought out of this region. And then who's gonna pay the cost of keeping this shooting range?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u243	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! As for the cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence with the Ministry of Sport, at the committee meeting we heard the Minister's declaration that such a cooperation programme for these objects will be developed so that I don't think we should be afraid to... Anyway, one of the groups that needs shooters and makes such requests is shooting clubs, right? So it is also in response to their needs that this law was created. As far as the issue of the maintenance of shooting galleries is concerned, the text of the Act states that the financing relates to the construction, renovation and maintenance of shooting galleries, but the construction is that the owner of the target, the beneficiary is the local government, and it will be up to him to take care of this shooting gallery later, to organise its work, of course, with this condition concerning the availability of its military, which I mentioned. In short, the local government also needs to carry out this type of investment with caution. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u245	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. We have a government representative with us, Minister Michał Dworczyk of the Ministry of National Defence. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. It is a parliamentary project, but I would like to thank the Ministry of National Defence once again for the initiators of this draft amendment of the law, because if Parliament considers that the project is worthy of support and the President will sign the bill, it will indeed be significant aid not only for local governments. Because, let us stress, this debate is on whether to create a legal basis so that local governments can receive funding. That's exactly what this is about. All the other questions you asked during today's sitting concern details. Details that will possibly be assigned to the grant programme. And the debate that is taking place today is whether to extend the possibility for local governments to absorb funds from the central budget. Therefore, this will be the benefit of First and foremost for local authorities. But it will also benefit the Ministry of National Defence. Why? Because for our purposes, the Ministry of National Defence, there are also support, construction, formation of pro-defense attitudes, support for the formation of patriotic attitudes. Of course, this infrastructure, which was already mentioned in this room today, will be able to be used by units of the Polish Army Not only by the Territorial Defence Forces, but by those branches or divisions that would like to benefit from such infrastructure. So, thanking the initiators of this project once again, I would like to ask the senator and the senators to support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u247	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. That's the question Senator Kilian wants to ask. You're welcome. Then Senator Blackbay. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Am I supposed to stay here?]] Yes, stay, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I assume that this law sets out a multiannual action programme. You mentioned at the committee meeting that in the next year's budget, the Ministry of Defence expects to spend about PLN 60 million. Does the Ministry know to what extent this amount will ensure the interest of local governments? And if it does not provide 100% of the interest of local authorities, is there any provision for the following years for amounts higher than those of PLN 60 million that you spoke about at the committee meeting. And which is assumed in next year's budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u249	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister said that today there is a debate on whether to increase the absorption of funds for the infrastructure in a given district or municipality. I say yes. Of course, that's a positive answer. And through our questions, we strive to do so. After all, the Minister has the best knowledge in this field. In order to establish certain specific things that the ministry imagines are. It's about how this shooting range is supposed to work. So here's my question, Minister: how much is a typical shooting range going to cost in a county? Is there such knowledge? Is there any respect? Are we just predicting measures, and we'll see what they come up with... Because I suspect that a little bit different parameters should have a shooting range, and other parameters, like the Minister said, a training range for combat units. 'Cause I hear that apart from the Territorial Defense Army, there's still gonna be combat units that can use this shooting range. So here's the thing: is it gonna be a shooting range that everyone will be able to use, including the military, if it's gonna be a shooting range that meets the requirements of the shooting range and at the same time a shooting range for which there are certain requirements... [[Thank you, because it's time...]] ...for fire training by military units?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u251	Time's up. Good. Thank you. Senator Alicia the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u252	Thank you very much. And Senator Blackbay has to go to a shooting range like this. What do I encourage you to do... [[Mrs. Senator...]] 'Cause I was in a shooting range this year... [[...because I'll tell you where you can go.]] [[Quiet, please. Please.]] I would like to ask the Minister who, besides the MON, the Ministry of National Defence, will be able to participate in the cost of building this shooting range? Except for self-government, of course. What's its availability? Because I know that today there are... Their number is insufficient. There's a problem with availability, too, because they're just besieged. And in relation to what Senator Czarnobaj asked, I will ask: what shooting range? We understand that these will be professional shooting sites where amateurs can shoot, but also train and learn how to shoot soldiers of territorial defense or anti-terrorists, or other military formations. And are there any units... Does the Minister know who designs these shooting ranges? I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u253	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As I have already mentioned, in answer to the senator's question, the bill doesn't determine anything, it only creates an opportunity. As we already know from what has been said in this Chamber, it is only after the law has been amended that we will establish a programme which will contain the criteria on which the funding will be granted. The senator rightly gave an example of the Orlik construction program, because the system is very similar. I know from the authors of this amendment that they were just following the solutions used by Orliks. So I repeat, we're creating an opportunity. And whether or not this possibility will be used depends on whether each year the Ministry of National Defence will budget some funds for it. If there are budgetary opportunities, these measures will be and if not, for example. We're gonna have some other urgent shopping, it's just not gonna be the means, right? On the other hand, whether the local authorities want to engage in these projects or not. There is no programme yet, but after the discussion that appeared in the media, many counties and municipalities came to us. If the senator asks a question, I'd say I don't think I'm gonna lie. That there was somewhere between 8 and 12 such conversations with specific local authorities that were just asking when it was possible to start apply to which facilities you will be able to obtain funding. If I can still address other voices in the discussion, many of these questions sounded as if you did not trust local governments. Will local governments have e.g. the means to maintain these objects, will there be anyone who will build these objects or watch them? Ladies and gentlemen, let's trust the local government. They know best what is needed in their territory. If any local government, whether in the commune or in the county, thinks she needs a shooting range, she'll think she's got 20%. Your own contribution... Because according to the Public Finance Act, we can finance up to 80%, but a minimum of 20% must be the own contribution of the local government. So if some government decides that they have the resources and that such an object is needed, they'll apply for such a grant. And if some government thinks that in the municipality or in the county such an object is unnecessary or that there is no money to build it or later to maintain the facility, it simply will not apply for this grant. Now the question is, who's gonna keep these objects? I'll say this again: let's trust the local governments. There will be self-governments. We already know that after the conversations. Which they will say: we want to be the operator of this shooting range ourselves, we will take care of the security, the use of this facility, the sharing of this facility. But surely there will also be local governments who lease such an object for a zloty of some sort of organization like the shooter, the Falcon or the scout organization and say: you manage it, this responsibility falls out of us. Here, let's not really worry about local governments, they can handle it very well. I stress once again that we today, if this law is adopted, create certain possibilities, impose nothing or limit anything. As far as the criteria of the programme are concerned, I have already declared at the committee meeting that if we start working on the legal basis and work on this programme, we will be very happy to present this programme to the Senate Defence Committee or other committees if they are interested. I can say that there will certainly be one within these criteria that will enable military training on these facilities. What does that mean? Such 2 parameters: the length of the axis s certainly on each of these co-financed facilities will not be less than 100 m; number of posts The number of posts will certainly not be less than 20. It's all about training. And now someone can say again: but why do you want to impose some criteria on local governments? The answer is: in order for Orlik to be built, certain shore conditions had to be fulfilled. And we say this: every local government, if it wants to build what it wants in its territory, but if it wants to receive funding from the MON, it has to meet certain criteria, because we also want the military to be able to train on this facility, which is also included in a wider program to restore the army to society. I mean, some of you may have noticed that recently the vows started again not in individuals, but in public spaces, in the markets of cities and towns, that the army was more likely to go to people. And that's exactly the same thing with shooting range objects that can be used by a sports organization dealing with shooting, which can be used by pro-defense organizations, where hunters or individual sports enthusiasts can shoot, but one day the army can come to practice on this facility. The senator was asking who was going to design these shooting galleries, who might still be involved in construction costs. Here we go again. If the government chooses a company, this company will design it. We're not imposing anything here. And when it comes to participating in costs, how will the local government find a sponsor, please, for us, this is a secondary matter. Within the framework of the law in force, let the local government do whatever it wants. We say we can give you 80%. financing. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't mention 1 important condition except for these 2 examples, i.e. the length of the axis of 100 m and a minimum of 20 positions. In the grant agreement there will be a commitment for several years that for a certain number of days a month the military will be able to use this facility free of charge. And one last thing: what will be the availability of objects? This is where I'm sending back to self-government. As the government will determine, so it will be. I imagine both such situations that the local government will want to use such facilities as well as those that the local government will use them free of charge and will be managed by some pro-defense organization that will set the schedule. In conclusion, I urge ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support this bill, because it is a law that we are opening up new opportunities for local governments. No one needs to use them, but it is always better to have a wider opportunity to support self-government in Poland than a narrower one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator... Minister, please remain at the podium because... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Sorry. I'm in the Senate for the first time, so if you'll excuse me.]] I see. There are other questions for you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If it's the first time, we need to spend a little more time together. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: At your disposal, Mr. Senator.]] Mr. Minister, three questions. First... I think it's gone by now, but I don't know if the Minister answered. Do you have a plan, thanks to this amount in the next year's budget, as we hear, 60 million will rise... Will it be a one-time case for 2018 only, or, as was the case with Orliks, a multi-annual programme? That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, from what you've said, I understand the request for confirmation. The State, as the Ministry of National Defence, will impose a standard of elements that are required for security in terms of military experience. That's the second question. [[He was talking about it.]] And the third question, the question of participation in costs. If the Minister could say anything about it... And if not, next time. Since Senator Hare sent me to a certain place, I would like to say, Senator, that on those, as you say, I have not yet been, but I have visited many shooting galleries.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u257	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, first case. Maybe it's not even a question. It's a remark. You said that local governments have full discretion. Of course, if they fit in the criteria that will be specified by the Ministry - about how to design... Wouldn't it be better to simply propose to local governments a typical project of such a shooting range, which would be accessible to each of these local governments and would certainly be cheaper, would reduce investment costs for all? It's a typical shooting range for the military, but also for... and here's the second part of the question: what about the youth? I get it this way, except for the 1st WOT company in the county... We would like young people to learn, for example, in upper secondary schools. The common... This is not only about uniformed classes, with an increased number of suitable subjects, i.e. activities for those concerned, but about the fact that everyone learns military adoption. [[Oh!]] I think it's a good idea. Of course, the Platform would want us to give up, raise our hands. We understand that, but... [[That was disgusting.]] 'Cause there's been a lot of whining on the other side... [[Mr. Senator, please conclude. Ask me a question.]] Excuse me, Miss Marshal. [[That was inappropriate.]] Minister, are you... [[A little wisdom...]] ...don't you think schools should get involved in this program right away? The point is that he may not force himself so much as to make local governments want to get a shooter like that. Please bear in mind that at the very beginning the military training program will not be universal, but uniform classes are already getting better and more desirable in particular places.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u259	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u260	Minister, Members have modeled on Orliks, but I do not know if they have learned from what is happening around Orliks and Orliks. Well, you've withdrawn your plan in the Orlik... [[But it's not the Orliks Act. It's the shooting range.]] ...money to support the trainers and maintainers of these fields. The use of these facilities has become a huge problem for local governments. My question is, wouldn't it be worthwhile for us, if we were taught this experience, to predict in this programme the means to maintain these facilities? In my town is the center of almost Olympic shooting, modern, built from the Ministry of Sports, where a lot of people use this sport, and I was already happy that what you are proposing we already have, but when I heard it was supposed to be 20 posts...We don't even have that, even we don't have, a city that, with the help of the Ministry, put millions into creating such a place. I would also like to tell you, Minister, that in the municipalities that I visit, there are very many completely closed shooters. They used to serve the military, and today they're closed, because there was no one to take care of them, to take care of them. I would like to encourage you to do so, Minister. I don't want to take part in the discussion. It is necessary to predict the money for their maintenance, so that they do not follow the Orlik road or the route which is marked by the inactive shooting range that they would carry out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u261	Thank you very much. [[They even have 20 jobs, but unfortunately they've been empty for years.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u262	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, speaking of the next questions that have been asked here, I'm going to say that the plan for how many objects will be created next year... Of course, there's no plan. I will repeat once again: we will be able to create any plan and any precise budget only when we have a legal basis. Without a legal basis, it is not possible to include a quota item in the draft budget X million for a project where the Ministry of National Defence does not have a legal basis to implement it. So much for the plan question. Next thing you know, how much is there going to be... I repeat, this is unpredictable at the moment, because local governments can apply for funding of objects that cost PLN 400,000, PLN 450,000, and sometimes even PLN 100,000, because if someone has a closed gravel pit nearby, then in this gravel pit all it takes is to set up moving targets and complete some bullethole. There are also local authorities who have already reported with projects of objects for PLN 2.5 million, so that this cannot be planned precisely, this will be the answer to reports from local authorities. The budget can be planned, of course, and it will have to be done, but this budget, as I said, is tens of millions of zlotys. It will be developed only after possible adoption of the amendment. Will this task be carried out on a one-off basis or in a multi-annual manner? I can answer on my behalf that I will urge every year to make a proposal to the budget... but it depends on the financial possibilities of the Ministry of National Defence. We can imagine a situation in which we will be finalizing, for example. The Vistula programme, the Air Defence Programme or other important modernisation programmes and all measures will have to be spent on modernisation issues, and then the money will simply not be. There's no coercion here. If there's money, we're gonna spend it on it, if there's no money, we're not gonna spend it on it. I believe that this is a relatively small amount of money on the budget scale of the entire Ministry of National Defence, so every year we should find such money. Coast conditions. The shore conditions were on Orlik's side, and they'll be here too. I listed three examples, i.e. the length axis 100 m, 20 posts and the availability for a given number of days for the army. Here's another thing. There was a suggestion, otherwise very good, for example projects to be made available. Of course, there will be some free projects, but they will be sample projects, because in each municipality, there are slightly different conditions in each district. Some have such natural conditions that it is very easy to build such an object for relatively little money, and others have to adapt and invest a lot more money to make it possible to build a shooting range. Several publicly available projects will be downloaded on the MON website, but every time local governments will have to adapt these projects to their own conditions or prepare their own projects. Of course, the shooting range will also be included in the grant agreement made available to schools that run certified pawns of military uniform classes. Let me remind you that our idea is that after 2019 in each district there will be 1 company of the Territorial Defence Army, 1 high school, which runs the floor of the certified military uniform classes, and 1 shooting range. It will all work together very well and play an educational and prooborn role. You could say that. Why do I say it's gonna be okay? Because when it comes to officers and petty officers of the Territorial Defense Army, they will be conducting part of the classes in schools where uniformed classes are certified. Why is this gonna work? Because a school with certified uniform classes, and a WOT company will be practicing on this facility. Why is this gonna work? Because various events of a patriotic or sporting nature will be able to accumulate on such open facilities. As far as the universal learning of shooting is concerned, at the moment we are discussing with the Ministry of National Education the proposal that the current curriculum for teaching a subject called "education for safety" should be transformed from 2019 and at the end of secondary school also take into account the teaching of shooting. We are at this point in the debate, and therefore it cannot be determined whether this is going to happen or not, but we really want this subject to have more pro-defence elements outside the preventive dimension or related to the rescue skills it has at the moment. I don't know the answer to the question whether the school... Maybe I'll give you a different answer. Today we are discussing an amendment to a law that will give local governments a chance. Within the framework of this amendment, schools are unlikely to be involved in the design of shooting galleries, but thanks to another law, revised at the beginning of this year, with educational law, schools can independently undertake the construction of shooting galleries. I have an example that works. At the moment in Jarosław, the shooting range is being built by the county, which is the leading body for a school in which there are uniform classes. There are possibilities. But for schools to benefit from the change in the law that we're planning now, it's rather, in my opinion, impossible. Mr. Senator, it was polite to say that we're the ones who took back the Eagles' livelihood. I can give you my word, with my hand on my heart, that the Ministry of National Defence has not withdrawn any funds. [[Weighted.]] Senator Augustine also said that measures should be provided for revitalization, because some objects are not used. You're absolutely right, senator. It's in this bill. If the senator reads it, you'll see there's a record there. It's not just about the construction, it's about the revitalization. And when it comes to maintenance, I'm gonna admit it. It was an amendment of the Civic Platform, tabled in the Sejm and accepted. It will also be possible to subsidize maintenance. Will there be resources for this? It's a separate subject. I can't decide that right now, but it's worth introducing that possibility. That is why we considered the amendment tabled by the Members of the Civic Platform to be a valid one and we endorsed it. Mr. Senator says such an object is definitely built with large charges. Mr. Senator, it's just that the Ministry of Sport is involved in subsidising sports shooting, and we want to subsidize multifunctional objects that have slightly different characteristics. It would also be against the logic that the Ministry of National Defence should subsidize objects that cannot be used by the military, which can only be used by hunters or athletes involved in shooting. We want to subsidize objects that are available for everyone, and for athletes, and for hunters, and for the army, and for enthusiasts. So I urge you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u263	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u264	One more question, short and so feminine. Maybe I'm not fully aware of everything. I have a question for you, Minister. How many dimensional, good shooting sites are there at the moment? What does it look like compared to the number of counties we have in the country? I'm asking because the idea of the ministry is that in every county where the company will be stationed, there's a shooting range. That's the first question. Two. It's about the cost of living. If the shooting range, such as the highest standard, will be adapted to military training, then who will participate in the cost of living? Will it be partially the Ministry of Defense, part of the local government, or will the whole operation and maintenance of this fall on the side of the local government? I think these are the two most important questions I'd like to ask. Thank you. [[Thank you very much...]] Oh, and maybe an ad vocem for Senator Czerwinski's speech. I was very upset by what you said because it's hurtful. I don't know, you're probably a little younger than me, but I've been through training, military training, and there we've been taught not to raise our hands up, but to use weapons properly, how to behave in emergency situations. And I don't know if it was wrong, although it was in times that you probably didn't think were typically Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u266	Minister, I'm going to go back to that question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur because there was a little bit of a double voice here. The Senator rapporteur talked about the fact that the shooting galleries will be held mainly by local governments, and you said that the agreement would or could the ministry be registered... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: No.]] No? I understood your statement so well that... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: I told you that the bill contained a provision allowing for subsidization. Enabling.]] Good. Well, let's assume. I repeat that question. That's what's going to happen... I happen to be from a region that is heavily militarized, on the eastern flank, but I also observe that there are still changes in the location of the army. And let's assume that the Ministry will think that it's worth building a shooting range in Braniewo or Elbląg, I suspect that these local authorities can apply for these measures. But as a result of some changes, it will appear that the military will be deployed, e.g. to the Białobrzegs, like the 16th Pomeranian Mechanized Division, and will not be interested in maintaining this shooting range. Is there such a threat to local governments that the military will at some point make a commitment, but then they will withdraw from this commitment and the local authorities will have to hold this shooting range?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u267	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński in correction mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u268	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Mrs Senator, I will quote you in your speech in the Seym debate, including the item on the agenda, Mr Sławomir Nitras from the Civic Platform: Modern armies, modern wars don't require societies to be able to shoot. I don't know, let's invest in some protection so there's somewhere to hide in case there's a conflict. After all, we will not solve the conflict by shooting young boys, but we will increase the number of victims.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u269	Okay, Mr. Senator... [[So much for the corrigendum.]] As I understand it, you're done, aren't you? [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, back to asking questions. Please, do any of you have a question for the Minister? If not, thank you. We're just asking you to answer the senator's questions and the senator's.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I will answer the senator's questions first. Right now, as far as military facilities are concerned, we have 51 gun rangers operating across the country. Unfortunately, 62 facilities were liquidated for various reasons in the 2000-2010 period. The facts are that some units are now arriving at the shooting range over 100 km in one direction, which is an absurd situation. I think we all agree that it's better for the military to practice shooting on the spot, which makes it possible to shoot, I don't know, once or twice a week, not once, or twice a month. When it comes to such full-size objects, which have an axis of 100 m and on which the army can exercise, there are very few. We don't have a record right now... Only since this idea of an amendment has emerged, we do this query, but you can already see that if there are 10 such objects on a national scale, that will be all. Because there are a lot of shooting range, but these are shooting range typically sports or civilian, where there is an axis of 25 m or 15 m, gun range, pneumatic shooting range. There are actually a lot of such objects. But the ones the military could practice on... These are really absolutely single objects on a national scale. Of course, we would like there to be one shooting range in each county, but no one conscious assumes that such a program can be implemented within one year. [[In two years.]] Thank you for your good wishes, Senator. Hopefully, we'll try. We will also expect to vote in favour of the budget that will provide for this, but it will certainly take some time. Who will participate in the maintenance? This, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly like with the Orliks, if the local government wanted to make such an investment, it had to recalibrate whether it would then maintain the investment. And it's exactly the same here. Because the fact that we have introduced, thanks to the Civic Platform amendment, which I will repeat, the possibility of funding these objects later on, as far as their maintenance is concerned, is not an obligation that the Ministry of Defense will maintain these facilities. It's just like with Orliks, the fact that Orlik's construction was co-financed doesn't mean that the Ministry of Sport then this Orlik maintains. This is the responsibility of local government. And this is where I come back to my appeal: let's trust the local government. If the local government finds that their commune, their county can afford it, they'll build this facility. If not It's hard to say. So that the Polish army absolutely does not undertake to maintain... Perhaps sometimes there will be an opportunity to finance this maintenance. Thank you, senator, for reminding me, I understand, with such a positive note in my voice, of the issue of college training. The Ministry of Defense... [[At school.]] At school? Good, 'cause I realized it was about college. [[But in college, as a matter of fact.]] In college, too, okay? I would like to say that after nine years, the Ministry of National Defence restored the possibility of training volunteer students at universities. I stress that this is a voluntary programme for both universities and students. It's been going on for four weeks... More than 3,000 students and 60 from 98 state universities have already applied. I think the senator will be pleased to hear that, too. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u271	Minister, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator. You've got 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna start by saying the words I'd like to say... I try not to direct my speeches ad personam, but I must say one word to the senator. Senator, we in the Senate as a House of reflection, the one that should set an example of a discussion based on logic, understands experience, and not on adversities... If I've ever done that, I'm very sorry. I want to say yes. This statement, who will lift up these hands and to what it is created, may be good, but not in parliament, especially not in the Senate. If you are so longing for the Sejm that at the level you have presented, to hold a discussion, then please report to the Sejm and they will listen to you. I would very much ask that, if possible, this kind of speech ad personam, so directed, but a little brake. And if you can't, that's fine, we'll accept it. Maybe some folklore in the Senate is needed, too. Minister, about the project you are presenting I understand he has been consulted with the Ministry; he has been notified by the Members I'd prefer it to be a government project that goes through this whole legislative path, where it hits, among other things. for the meeting of the Joint Government and Government Committee. What I am asking is my 20-year experience of working in the local government, and I want to assure you that the same questions, perhaps even more detailed ones, would ask you at a joint government and local government meeting. The essence of each project, Minister, is from the beginning to the end a thoughtful formula taking into account the long-term perspective. Of course, I agree with what the Minister said could be a difficult budgetary situation, other priorities and we will have to withdraw from this project, but I believe that planning, especially in the case of combined projects, should be long-term. Such an undertaking in every district is also planned at a certain time. Each county has a strategy for its development, has a list of the most important investments, etc. So it's not gonna be like this year we're gonna announce it, and next year, all the counties are gonna report. Therefore, it is worth to make such projects a little differently planned. I can go with the Minister about the idea... People who are close to shooting... I'll tell you that if it's in every county, it's gonna be very good, but I'm worried about the formula itself, the process of introducing this solution, that is, the issue of cooperation with local governments. Minister, it's a little bit like we're in battle, we're getting answers to questions when we're working with local governments, and I'd rather we go to local governments with a proposal for a framework, taking into account certain minimum standards of investment processes, the expected number of these shooters built annually, etc. Like a county that has thousands of different tasks, it knows, it can plan that maybe not this year, maybe not next year, but maybe in five years. It allows the local government to... As the Minister appealed, let us respect the local authorities and appreciate them. If we have respect for them, I would like to encourage strategic thinking, Minister, in an investment but also functional sense. Because the question is, is there going to be a grant, how it's going to be shaped... Such functional uncertainty, investment always kills the enterprise. So I urge you, Minister, to think about it. What concerns this undertaking with certain disadvantages, but also its advantages, let us do it in a more orderly manner. And don't think those who ask a lot of questions are against the initiative. You are a very young man and you may not remember that in the times of the Polish People's Republic in college they said: remember who asks, does not rule. Therefore, do not think that those who ask a lot of questions are against this idea. I'm just urging you to create a more strategic, comprehensive project called a shooting range. There is also a training theme, and a military thread, and a recreational theme, but also the cost of maintenance, renovations, etc. The question may be whether you will be participating in some kind of renovation costs in five years' time. And you have to be very clear: "No, absolutely, please count on yourself or we will build and help." Let's say it's gonna be like this, yes and yes. So I would like to say that I am deeply in favour of the idea, but as for the method of proceding, the way in which this undertaking is implemented and what is related to its subsequent implementation, I have considerable, considerable concerns. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u273	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Michał Dworczyk: Thank you very much. Goodbye.]] We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 646 and the report of the Commission In print No 646 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law aimed at improving the legal environment of investment activities, contained in Senate printing No 646, was examined by committees The Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport At today's joint meeting. There is no doubt that an innovative economy is extremely important, especially today, during such an extremely dynamic period of technological development. It should be noted that the innovative economy is a higher income for workers and higher revenue for the budget, because the products produced are more expensive and more technologically advanced. It is also linked to the rise in state prestige, the improvement of defence status, the convenience of citizens and many other issues. The direct objective of this law is to remove or reduce barriers to the introduction of innovation into the economy, as well as to strengthen and make tax instruments to promote innovation more attractive. This law includes amendments to many laws. As the title itself indicates, the legal environment of investment activities involves a number of laws, in particular tax laws, science financing law, higher education law, etc. The changes made relate primarily to changes in PIT and CIT, in particular as regards deduction from the tax base of the costs of obtaining R &amp; D revenues. In this area the amount of deductions is increased, the catalogue of eligible costs is extended and there is a special allowance for research for R &amp; D centres. Another area of change concerns the Technical Dosorry Act, which adds provisions on support for actors promoting scientific and technical achievements and ensuring public security. The telecoms law introduces the possibility of free use of bands for testing and testing. Another change involves an increase in the scope of the companies created by universities and institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences and research institutes. The next change involves monitoring the fate of university graduates and PhD students. The Act on the National Centre for Research and Development on the modification of the principles and structures of the Centre's operation and on the formulation of the catalogue is also amended. tools, including financial instruments and other feedback instruments. It could be developed. Another amendment concerns amendments to the Science Financing Act in relation to the so-called. a road map of the research infrastructure. The changes introduced simplify the rules in this area, make the selection of proposals open and the rules for assessing these proposals are precise. There is an increase in the R &amp; D reduction to 100% , and in the case of R &amp; D centres up to 150%. The admission of activities outside zones, the extension of the double taxation period, the facilitation of start-ups financing and the management of research infrastructures shall be introduced. There are changes regarding the self-government of patent attorneys, loans and technological bonuses. I think it is very interesting to note that entrepreneurs have acquired the status of R &amp; D centres. Entrepreneurs who get this status have, as I just said, a reduction of up to 150%. A completely new chapter 4a on promoting innovation is also being introduced. It contains a lot of interesting records. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs may establish programmes It's all mentioned. On innovation of products, services, markets, pro-innovative competences of society, human resources in the creation and management of innovation, entrepreneurial skills in the field of intellectual property protection, internationalisation of innovative activities, links between science and the economy. In addition, the Act empowers the Minister responsible for the economy to provide financial assistance to entrepreneurs in the areas of: R &amp; D projects, support for process and organisational innovation, support for innovation, support for innovation clusters, advisory services, support for the participation of entrepreneurs in trade fairs and business missions, training aid, assistance for small entrepreneurs. Another very important paragraph concerns those to whom such aid may be granted, namely start-ups, entrepreneurs, statutory bodies for economic innovation, innovation clusters, social partners, etc. There is no doubt that the Act is an extremely important element in promoting innovation. As rapporteur for the three joint committees, I would like to stress that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have agreed to support the proposal for a law without amendments. 14 ladies and senators voted, 14 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. It is also worth noting that at the time of the adoption of the law in the Sejm there was also such compatibility: 429 Members were in favour, no one was against, 2 Members abstained. I'm filing for a bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have the minister, the senator, Alexander Bobko. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not repeat here the details of the changes made by this law. You did it, Senator Rapporteur. I would just like to add that the law is part of a larger package of laws, which are intended to implement innovative projects in Poland. This year we launched a program on implementation PhDs. In preparation there is a law on the network of research institutes, on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. Laws on the creation of patent courts and on a simple public limited company are also being prepared. We hope that these projects will be processed soon too. I would like to say that the law was widely consulted in the environment. There was a long discussion and a White Paper on innovation was established. We hope that the adoption of the law will be a strong impetus for entrepreneurs to become more involved in investing in R &amp; D centres or in innovation-related projects in general. I am very cordially asking the High House to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The agreement that prevails around this project is a very good signal that, at least in such a fundamental matter, which is not to base our development in the future on extensive resources that have so far been stuck in a cheap, easily accessible workforce, but to focus on the development of very intensive, innovative technologically, there is agreement. I would like to commend the Ministry for what rarely happens. Not only have you shown this perspective, to which we should seek and outline new tools that are worth applying, but also in assessing what was going on, you have been extremely honest, because you have shown the period during which these cases were subject to the responsibility of the predecessors, and you have shown in the explanatory memorandum very clearly that the progress made in this regard is worthy of recognition. 'Cause I'm going to go with 0.6%. up to 1% GDP was not easy at all, especially as it was a time of crisis. But this has not been neglected, although, of course, the results are far from satisfactory, which you are also showing and with which we should agree. Well, we're far from the leaders. We're far from satisfied. I'm also glad that what I was speaking with last year In order to expand the catalogue of eligible costs, it has been taken into account to a certain extent, although not yet entirely, still not entirely, not as I have requested and I will try to conclude, but the tools that are necessary for conducting the research, you have not taken into account the change from point 2. But you put the vessels and laboratory equipment and measuring devices that we talked about a year ago. But it's a good thing it's coming back. I think it's worth stopping for a while and make up this catalog so that it's not only in the third approach. I think that catalog would be full by then. I didn't quite understand that at the committee meeting, why you put technical supervision issues in this law, especially in order to ensure that technical supervision also promotes technical security. After all, we know that this is the responsibility of the State Labour Inspection. And I don't quite understand what the purpose of the amendment is. 5. Similarly, I pointed out that as far as the article is concerned. 6, it's a matter of the self-government of patent attorneys here, I would say, from pear to parsley in relation to the entire bill. It's quite artificially attached. If it is that this issue, both, needs to be regulated... I don't think this is the place, and it's not the time to put it here. In general, however, I would like to stress that not only am I, but also the Senators of the Civic Platform support this law, these proposals in the bill. There is one point that we do not like, even if we consider the translation from the committee meeting. Namely, if it is as a representative of the Ministry of Finance said, that the inclusion of eligible depreciation charges on buildings, buildings and premises raises doubts as to whether it would not be a tool of tax optimization, then it can be assumed that this limitation of up to 10% is perhaps indicated in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, although this statement was so enigmatic that we do not know whether such cases have been encountered and whether someone has tried this way to abuse legislation in order to obtain increased benefits or not. Suppose there were such signals. However, the provision that this also applies to the costs of expertise, opinions or advice obtained from third parties is in the same basket, in the same package It seems to me absolutely unharmed. We've been trying so hard to finally get these services, the outside services, from the very essence of things... Well, if we have any feedback from our own company, we rarely call it expertise. Experts are necessarily ordered at an outside firm that is trusted. about your integrity, your competence. Besides, with expertise, they are of fundamental importance in making business decisions, so they must be free from entanglements within the company. Well, it's good when they're free from them. That's why I think we need to take off this muzzle 10%. in the case of expertise, opinions and advisory services. We would certainly turn on the green light in this way for cooperation between the various high-level centres that should cooperate with each other to generate innovation. You also point out in the explanatory memorandum that this is one of the basic problems that we are dealing with. Various centres of high competence often fail to work together in such a way as to generate these innovations. Therefore, for the reasons that I have just mentioned, I am proposing a series of amendments which I believe will make this law better, more friendly to entrepreneurs wishing to build their development on the basis of innovation. I am therefore convinced that these amendments will better achieve the objective that you have outlined and that there is such an exceptional agreement here. I would ask for a moment more consideration and consider whether the amendments I propose would not be worth introducing into this law so that it has the most favourable, optimal shape. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be humble and see. It's like the Minister said. This is a certain path that we will probably follow, and we should expect further laws, further steps. This goal, very difficult, ambitious, let us try to achieve a good incentive system. I'd like to ask you to accept the amendments I'd like to put on the hands of the marshal... but I won't do it until after the signature is signed. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u279	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with what you ended with Senator Augustine. This bill has 100 percent support, Minister, because it has the characteristics of the project that we are always waiting for. She is in my view thought out in the sense of the procedure, but also in the sense of the stages of its implementation and the tasks that must be carried out in order to achieve a certain goal. Why is she so important? We talked about this a little bit at the committee meeting, but I would like to point it out again. Minister, I understand that and I am convinced that your ministry and you personally are not doing this just to introduce a bill. The aim of this law is to improve productivity. Increasing spending is an indirect goal, but what is most important today, in which we are losing a bit in the world today, in the European Union or in Europe... Because a few years ago, from the analysis carried out among entrepreneurs It showed that 2/3 did not see the need for any innovation and investment in increasing productivity and changing the way the company operates. Today, less than 50% Only until, in my opinion, Entrepreneurs see no interest in what is involved in increasing R &amp; D expenditure. So, in short, there is not yet full cooperation between business and science, and perhaps the main objective of the business should be that science and business work together, which results in increased productivity. If we look at the analysis of R &amp; D expenditures, we will note that since 2014 with 0.6% Today is almost 1%. Is that a little or a lot? Well, you can always have more. It is assumed, ma'am, that in 2020 we asked and one of the gentlemen spoke about it. It's going to be 1.7%. GDP and the target model in the Union is 3%. I would like to say that the Scandinavian countries are the countries that are around 3% Oscillatory in terms of R &amp; D expenditure. But just increasing GDP, the positive attitude of entrepreneurs is not just a goal in itself, it is not a measurable value: yes, we have achieved... The essence of the matter is what I will say in a moment, from the point of view of Poland and Polish economic interests, because if today, Minister... I think it's the knowledge... I'm sorry. I'm sure everyone in this room knows that today, within 1 hour, a statistical Pole produces about 10 euros. This is the value of our productivity with these expenditures on R &amp; D in Poland, which we are talking about today. In order to satisfy curiosity, all I can say is that we are, of course, far from the average of the European Union, which is almost 4 times higher, we are far from Norway, where the value of production within 1 hour is almost 70 euros in the statistics of the country concerned. Of course, productivity itself is one thing, but it also involves something that is very important. E.g. in the Netherlands, where productivity is almost EUR 46 per hour... But the Dutch statistically work 30 hours a week. I'd like to say that we're the country where you work. . compared to others The longest and average... [[Voice from the room: Statistically.]] The work in Poland is statistically more than 40 hours a week. I'm talking about it because, in my opinion, In addition, this issue was discussed at the committee meeting without any investment, without considering R &amp; D as one of the most important investment elements for Poland, we will not shorten this distance. Therefore, Minister, we thank, congratulate and wish that the project is implemented in its entirety. And I would like to hear from the Minister at the end of his term, if possible. We'll be reminded of each other if we need anything. What will then be the parameters for R &amp; D expenditure, which will be productivity parameters and standards in Poland. I wish that we would come closer to the Netherlands than to countries that have far worse indicators. As you said, Senator Augustine, Minister, all the Senators of the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this bill, and if the amendments of Senator Augustine would also be thought out and accepted by your minister and by your senators, we would also be grateful for that. Minister, once again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u281	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, it is not easy to build an innovative economy. Here, the size of 2/3 or 50% fell. In addition, innovative productivity has also been mentioned. And it seems to me that the most important is an innovative product, because it is the subject of both the acquisition by citizens and exports. Of course, the basic element of the 'unfortunately', far beyond one parliamentary term, or even a few of these terms of office. There's an education issue here. So education, education and upbringing. Yeah, and upbringing. Not only education, but also upbringing. This is a school. I think it's also about seven-year-olds, because it's also affecting And a high school, but also a whole public life, ethics. These are extremely important things. I have already mentioned in this House several times the Nobel Prizes from the economy concerning human capital, in these awarded works, stressed the importance of the ethical values of society in achieving economic success. This is extremely important. This also applies to science, and this also applies to innovation. Of course, within these competences it is very important to be able to cooperate, communicate, including communication between different human teams, but also between interdisciplinary teams, and this also includes difficulties in communicating between entrepreneurs and scientists. I think there's a lot to do here. There are already small companies and fireworks trying to fill this gap, because they are trying to communicate with each other in some way, both of these kind of closed environments. I have also spoken many times in this House about the expenditure on science and the continuing shortage in this area, but I think that when we talk about science in the context of the economy and, in particular, the innovative economy, public procurement is, as it seems, more important than the expenditure on science. It is extremely important here to write the specification of the subject matter of the order, as well as to place these orders in Poland. Because it mobilizes the economy, it mobilizes scientists. Of course, there may also be a temptation to reduce quality, to reduce innovation, but the wisdom of us as a state, as a community, as a nation, should manifest itself in the fact that it will be so to say colloquially, a suction pump. This is an extremely, extremely important element. Senator Augustine here spoke in detail about one of the amendments. However, I will refer to this, mainly because, although this matter was discussed at the joint committee meeting, not all ladies and gentlemen of the senators attend these committee meetings. It must be said that this is a reduction in the costs described in the mouth. 3a to 10% concerns 2 categories: depreciations from buildings, buildings, etc., as well as costs of expertise and opinions, advisory services, etc. Please note that the bill says 10% revenue; not profits, not income, just revenue. 10% revenue is really a very large amount. I know that elsewhere it says that this catalogue of eligible costs, which is wide, may relate to a refund of 100% , and in the case of R &amp; D centres, 150% . Therefore, I must say that the purpose of my speech is to show that this argument does not fully deserve support. It doesn't sound like a mouth restriction. 3a does not apply to scientific units, i.e. expertise, opinions, advisory services and equivalent services, contract-based research, technical knowledge, patents, licences, etc.. They don't concern you. That's 10%. Scientific units. So I have the impression that the legislator's caution, which in other places is extremely generous And you could say there's some sort of asymmetry here. It's thoughtful. The senator says he's made a number of amendments. He only talked about one thing, so I could relate to one thing. Of course, there will be committee meetings... It is a pity that these amendments have not already been tabled at this meeting, which was, but, of course, there will be a meeting of the joint committees and we will lean on it. Mr. Senator used the phrase "maximally optimal shape." Well, I have to say that the term "maximum optimal shape" is extremely judgmental and depends on the point of view. It's changing a lot. I have to say, I'm an active professor, I have patents and a lot of implementations in the economy. And I have to say that this maximum optimal shape can be achieved in many ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u283	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Augustine has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion, too. Thank you for your compliments on the ministry. For the sake of justice, I would like to admit that this bill was piloted by Minister Dardziński, who is not here today, and I am in charge so that I will pass on these praises to my colleague. Perhaps he'll be at the committee meeting tomorrow. The question of extending the catalogue, which is the subject of an amendment, will still be discussed at the committee meeting. In my opinion, whether in our view it is an extension with tools etc. actually it is possible to read from the existing rules today and this does not bring any significant extension. Additional issues a little, which are included in the Act, i.e. the issue of giving certain powers to the Technical Supervision Authority or issues related to patent attorneys. Well, this bill is wide. She doesn't have her own content at all, but it's a law that modifies other laws. Therefore, the project promoters have allowed themselves a little bit of a broad approach to issues that may indirectly concern innovation-related issues. Well, that's a 10% limit. has already been discussed at the committee meeting. Professor Wind referred to him. Maybe I won't comment on it anymore. I'm just gonna say it's not that much of a restriction... ♪ 'Cause 10% ♪ It's like we're being restricted. That's not really a restriction. It's a dish of something that hasn't been there yet. Right? So creating a new opportunity to a limited extent. About this professor. The wind was talking, too. It is important that the expertise prepared by scientific bodies within the meaning of the Act does not have this limit. And maybe two more words, because a very interesting topic of discussion appeared in the statements of Senator Czarnobaj and Professor Wiatr. I would just say in general that we are creating certain tools and creating certain legal instruments, and using these instruments, using these instruments is difficult and this is a matter of a long process. It also requires the development of a culture. I'll admit, at least for a few years, I've been watching this process before as the headmaster or headmaster of the university. Because, let's say, eight or nine years ago, we actually took our first steps, especially in many universities. Some universities have been going through this process before, but many Polish universities or scientific institutes have been entering this process for several years. This is how we learn and look at solutions in the world. Here there must be several elements: on the one hand legal possibilities That's what this bill brings in. On the other hand, there is also a cultural fabric or culture, the ability to use it, the ability to communicate, to find common thinking among people who think differently. Scientists and businessmen, entrepreneurs. We still have a problem with this coming together and creating a coherent whole, but I think that, in general, over the last few years, we have been going in the right direction and this ability to communicate better, but also related ethics is very important in this matter. And last but not least, I think all of this also requires a certain amount of patience. Even if there were questions at the committee meeting, which we have received in the last year an increase in R &amp; D expenditure as a result of a law that was introduced a year earlier. Right? We understand that, and we monitor it. These are important questions, but, I think, it would be overly optimistic to expect these solutions to be effective immediately. I think it's a longer process. And if we are to be serious about getting closer to the level of R &amp; D expenditure that exists in the world in the best developed countries, this component is extremely important. Because we often associate whether or not we think that increasing spending on science to 1%, to 1.7% This is an increase in budget expenditure. No, not just that. This is where the hidden resources we're trying to acquire are hidden. So thank you for this discussion. It will probably continue tomorrow at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u285	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 642, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 642 A and 642 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a good time for the Senate, because the previous law was adopted unanimously and supported by all options in the Senate and the Sejm, and I am pleased to be the rapporteur of the bill, which was adopted in the Sejm, with only 1 abstention, so it can be said, using the fashionable wording that it enjoyed total support, and also in the Senate in the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the draft law was adopted unanimously, except that the committee unanimously also accepted the amendments proposed by the legislator. They concern formal cases, not substantive cases. I ask the Senate to adopt the bill, including the amendments that we have made. High Senate, this is a government project that adapts Polish law to EU law. The deadline for implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council has already expired a year ago without two weeks. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after its publication in the Official Journal of the Act, except that it amends, modifies many other laws, hence some provisions will enter into another date, e.g. changes related to the pursuit of work in the profession desirable for the Polish economy and changes that define the limit of temporary residence permits are due to enter on 1 January 2019. The aim of the Act is to consciously manage foreign migrations in Poland and improve existing migration procedures. The project provides that foreigners from outside the European Union will be able to obtain a temporary residence permit in Poland as part of an intra-corporate transfer from another country. Such authorisation may be granted for a period of 3 years for employees, managers, specialists and for a period of 1 year for trainees. At the end of this period, workers will only be able to stay in Poland if they receive such consent in a different way. In order to obtain such authorisation, prior employment within the same company will be required 1 year before this authorisation becomes effective. This permit will give the right to live in Poland to members of the family of such an employee and the right to take up a job in Poland. This phenomenon is getting worse right now. Last year, the number of people who requested legalisation of their stay in Poland increased by 36%, i.e. 127 thousand people who applied for it. What are the changes to the law that has been in force so far? New legal institutions have been introduced, such as a group of companies or mobility. The catalogue of tasks of the Head of the Office for Foreigners has been extended to serve as a contact point. A new purpose for issuing visas has been introduced, i.e. the implementation of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out intra-corporate transfer work. Regulations have been introduced to facilitate family reunification of intra-corporate transferees. The requirement of having a regular source of income by a graduate of a Polish university in the proceedings for granting a temporary residence permit was waived. In addition, it introduced facilitations in the granting of temporary residence permits and permanent residence permits for workers working in professions desirable for the Polish economy. The list of such professions will be able to specify in the regulation the Minister responsible for Labour It's not mandatory. A foreigner residing in Poland is allowed to apply for a temporary residence permit in order to join a family for a member of his family. Solutions are also being introduced to help expose victims of trafficking in human beings. The possibility of granting temporary residence permits to a minor foreigner who has received the status of victim in criminal proceedings is also introduced. Security of the stay of minors shall be introduced, inter alia, by allowing the replacement of the foreigner's family to function. The foreigner is allowed to acquire the right to family benefits. The project also requires knowledge of Polish at an intermediate level for people from 16 years of age who are seeking a long-term residence permit for an EU resident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u287	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u288	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act on the amendment of the Law on Foreigners and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 27 October 2017. The Senator rapporteur, Mr Wisła, presented the purpose and subject of the Act in detail. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in the context of this law was held yesterday. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests that this law be adopted together with the amendments. These are technical and editorial amendments, same as the ones that my previous speaker put forward. Therefore, as I said, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions calls for this law to be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u289	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I can't see. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to take the floor and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: No. Thank you.]] Thank you. Would you like to speak with the head of the Foreign Office present at the meeting? [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogal: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u290	Thank you very much. I have two questions, one for the Minister, the Head of the Foreign Office, the other for the Minister of the Interior. As far as the Minister's concerned, I wanted to ask you this. How do you think these solutions will improve the situation on the Polish labour market? We know that entrepreneurs have been struggling with this for some time and that, so to speak, all the facilitations in this area are welcomed by them with great satisfaction. I would like to ask you how much you think solutions will contribute to this. And I have the following question for the Minister. There's a record there. If I'm reading it right The foreigner, who will be a graduate of the Polish university, will have some facilitations in legalization of the stay, among others. he will not have to show that he has adequate means of subsistence. Well, that's my question. Graduates of Polish universities can be different. Someone might graduate from college, be her graduate, but somebody might graduate from college, for example. Some kind of several-month course. And the question is, who is it going to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u291	Minister, come to the bleachers. Then I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u292	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! In answer to the senator's question about the facilitations in the labour market, which this regulation introduces, I would like to clarify that, first of all, it will help to acquire... this will help our labour market absorb highly skilled workers, which are particularly desirable in our labour market. At the same time, the changes that have been envisaged, because the Act amending the Foreigners Act also amends the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions, will include all regulations facilitating the acquisition of highly qualified personnel in the framework of the implementation of the Directive. I don't know if that's enough for a quick question. These are provisions adapting, clarifying provisions in the area of legislation that are currently in force. The directive extends the possibility of obtaining, as I mentioned, managers, specialists, trainees. At present, under the current procedures, this was highly complicated and even impossible. [[Thank you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u293	Mr. Senator would like to add some more... [[Just one more sentence.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u294	I understand that we are really talking about a small group of highly qualified specialists here, not to prevent the lack of hands at work in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u295	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u296	Mr. Senator, to answer that question, I can't agree with that, because she narrows it down... This does not apply only to highly qualified personnel, as the senator requested it to be formulated. This is a wider opening, we are talking about the movement of... the possibility of using intra-corporate mobility, within other bodies of an enterprise located within the European Union and established in a third country.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u297	Thank you, Minister. Now I would like the floor of Minister Rafał Rogala.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u298	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, I answer the question directly. No, it won't be difficult for me to find the word "graduates" that are neither first-grade studies, second-cycle studies, single Master's degree or third-grade studies, because only the graduates of these studies will be able to benefit from the powers that you mentioned and which is precisely what you said, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u299	Does the senator have any other... No questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogal: Thank you very much.]] [[Mr. Czerwinski on the other side...]] Senator Czerwiński has a question for the Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u300	I'd rather it was the Minister who answered my question after all. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the media recently told us that Ukrainian citizens who settled in Poland and who worked in Poland for at least six months and have the right 20 years. -, a twenty-five-year internship, will be able to collect Polish minimum pensions of PLN 1 thousand, and the amount of these pensions will not be reimbursed to Poland by Ukraine. I heard we signed a bilateral agreement. First of all, I'd like the Minister to make it clear either that she's demented or that she's confirming this information. And secondly, will the law as we see it right now, by proceding it, actually make this process easier?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u301	Mr. Senator, let me refer to the media. I don't think it's unreasonable... It certainly does not refer to this regulation and to the area in which it affects it. Let me briefly refer to how this regulation affects the laws. As regards the laws that it amends, to which it affects... The Act on Family Benefits is intended to enable the acquisition of benefits by foreigners residing in Poland for the purpose of carrying out work or for long-term mobility. We refer here to a definition that only speaks about what the directive is implementing, so there is no way... To dispel the doubt... I have already mentioned an amendment to the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Institutions, which does not apply in this area that the Senator mentioned. The Freedom of Business Act also contains changes of a purely sequencing nature. The amendment of the Act on Health Care Benefits aims to ensure consistency... sets out benefits granted free of charge for health insurance. And the last impact is the impact on the law on Polish citizenship, which speaks about knowledge and level of Polish language knowledge. As far as I can tell, I presented to the senator the impact of this regulation on the area of the Polish legal order. It does not apply to the powers mentioned by the senator, pension rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u302	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u303	If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask... We have clarity about this bill. But I passed my first question earlier on whether these press releases were true. Did we really sign a bilateral agreement with Ukraine, which, thanks to a very different level of benefits, in this case pensions, in us and in Ukraine, makes it possible for such a process as I described earlier in the question? Can you answer that question? If not, then, of course, I'm asking you to answer in writing, because I realize it might be too complicated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u304	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! According to my current knowledge, Poland did not even negotiate such an agreement. As far as I am aware, the review of the agreements with Ukraine that we currently have at negotiating level does not cover this range of benefits. But I undertake to review this information again and send a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u306	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As previously announced, item nine of the agenda, concerning the Act amending the Civil Records Act, will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Municipal Government Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 635 and the report of the Commission In print No 635 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Representatives of the Government! I am pleased to present to the High Representative a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, on which it was a procedated law on the amendment of the law on municipal self-government. As far as this bill is concerned, it can be said that the work was on it and in the Sejm, and at the committee meeting in this convention, which you spoke of by Senator Wcisła, so the compatibility was inter-party. As far as the Sejm is concerned, it was accepted, 428 Members voted against, and only 2 Members abstained. This law was proceded as a seismic submission. The project was presented by 2 committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy. As far as the thematic scope of this law is concerned, it regulates the maintenance of local law in the event of a change in the boundaries of the municipality. This law regulates three cases. If, for example, some village, some area X will be transferred from municipality A to municipality B, is the local law on spatial planning in the area that has moved to municipality B, still valid until the change occurs. The period during which this law applies may last for a maximum of 3 years. Until then, such a law must be changed. Other elements... The law on permits or any concession is the same as in the municipality to which the area is attached. There's a coincidence... The Act decides that if in an area which changes its boundaries in some way, in an area which passes, as I said, from municipality A to municipality B, there are some real estate or buildings of municipality A, then the regulation of ownership between municipalities is carried out by agreement. If there is no such agreement, the owner of the property or the building will remain the municipality that has been it so far. The change can only be made by agreement. These are the three basic issues that this law regulates. Like I said, there was no dispute at the committee meeting. The bill was passed by the honourable commission unanimously, 10 senators were in favour. It was even better here than in the Sejm, because in the Sejm 1 Member was against and 2 abstained. I'm asking the Senate to adopt the bill without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u308	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 633, and the report of the Commission In print No 633 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: You don't have a senator.]] [[Voice from the room: I called her. She's on her way.]] [[It's a temporary break.]] I'm declaring a few minutes' tech break. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 19 to 18 minutes 21]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] ...point 11 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Health Committee held on 8 November, the Law on the revision of the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and certain other laws was considered. Two amendments were tabled during the examination of this law. One is the proposal to delete point b in Article. Point 1 (9). In turn, in the article. Point 10 (1). The second sentence is replaced by the following: A vote has been taken. As regards Amendment 1, it was voted on by four votes in favour, three senators abstained. As far as Amendment 2 is concerned, it was voted unanimously. The High Senate is ready to adopt the attached draft resolution This is what the Health Commission is asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u310	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The project was brought in by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. There's no one from the Ministry of Health... [[They'll be here in 10 minutes.]] [[So soon?]] [[Unless we can jump to the questions.]] Then we will move on to the questions to the rapporteur... Are there any questions for the Senator rapporteur? Senator Libicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u311	It is rather a question to your marshal, because I would like to address the question to a representative of the Ministry. There is no representative of the ministry, so I can ask the senator, but perhaps with such a suggestion that the representative of the ministry convey these doubts. If I could put it in such a form, and the marshal would agree, then I would.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u312	I'm afraid that's an unnecessary complication. There will be a government representative, and then the senator will ask that question. [[Okay, I'll be waiting for the government to come.]] In this situation, I am declaring a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 24 to 18 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. [[Voice from the hall: But it's not the minister.]] The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[It's not health, Mr. Marshal, it's another point.]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is a sport.]] Time-out until 6:30. We have word that the Minister is on his way. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 26 to 18 minutes 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u313	Mr. Minister is already in the courtroom, so I will resume the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Law on the Protection of Mental Health and some other laws amends the Act on the Protection of Mental Health and the Act on Education in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism. It also introduces single amendments to the Anti-drugs Act and the Health Protection Act against the Effects of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. The main objective of the Act is to align the provisions with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, this Act provides for a revision of the rules and provides for new rules whereby the admission of a person to a social assistance home without his consent and with the consent of his or her statutory representative requires a decision by a guardian court to refer him or her to a social assistance home. Moreover, the obligation to periodically examine the mental health of such a person was added to justify her stay at a social assistance home. Excuse me. [[Voice from the room: Easy...]] ...I had a collision here. [[What happened? Maybe we should help.]] [[The doctors are in the O.R. if you need anything.]] Thank you very much. I can do this. In addition, a new provision is added to the Act that, in order to ensure adequate legal protection of persons sent without their consent home... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, please calm down.]] ...the court shall establish for the person concerned by the proceedings a lawyer or counsel of his own motion, even without an application, if the person concerned because of his or her medical condition a psychiatric person is unable to file an application and the court will consider the lawyer's involvement in the case to be necessary. The proposed provisions also define the changes in the National Programme for the Protection of Mental Health resulting from the National Health Programme, as well as the adaptation of statutory authorisations in accordance with constitutional requirements. The amendment of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism is linked to the need to amend the right of a person to undergo a rehab treatment to apply for a change by a court of law concerning the type of rehab facility, as well as to the monitoring of the premises in which persons who are subject to a direct coercion measure in the form of isolation are held. The amendment concerning direct immobilisation is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court ordering precise determination of the manner in which immobilisation can be applied. The amendments to the law on drug prevention are related to the solutions proposed in the law on sobriety education and the prevention of alcoholism. Given the matter indicated, we considered it a leading law on mental health. Hence the accepted order of amended laws. The Act makes amendments which are of a more precise and orderly nature. Appropriate transitional provisions are foreseen and adapted for these regulations. The existing implementing acts are proposed to remain in force until the date of entry into force of the provisions issued on the basis of amended authorisations. The proposed amendments to the laws should be assessed positively. In the process of working on this project... Since it is a billing project, corresponding to the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Tribunal, it did not raise any major controversy. There were discussions on individual records, but the project was adopted in the Sejm. Please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u315	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I understand that this is, as you said, a sort of tidying project, but I received a letter from a voter who is related to the subject, because he has a person in his family suffering from mental illness. It is quite long and contains various arguments of the letter. Some seem pretty accurate to me as a layman, others don't. Let me make this letter to you in writing, and I will only quote one of these comments. I'd like the Minister, if that's possible, to refer to her. Namely, this lady calls for an article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act removes the requirement that a person who is in a psychiatric hospital without his consent, together with other entitled persons listed in the abovementioned Article, may require that he or she be discharged from the hospital no earlier than 30 days after the decision of the custody court on admission to or further treatment of that person has been enforced without his or her consent in that hospital. The lady writes: "On the basis of my own experience with a family member's mental illness, I believe that giving up the 30-day limitation of the possibility of a person having a mental illness to apply for a hospital discharge may have negative consequences for the effectiveness of treatment of people with such diseases as. schizophrenia, in which a sick person often loses consciousness and sense of his illness and refuses treatment. I would like you to comment on this, and I would like you to give this material in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u317	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u318	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think this is an object. a rather broad discussion on human rights, citizens' rights, because to a person who is forced to be placed in a prison, we also apply these 30 days, depriving him of his civil rights. At the stage of government work, the Government Legislative Center indicated to us that we should not, so to speak, in addition to this compulsion of hospitalization, differentiate these people. This discussion was also held in the Senate. And our position, the government's position on this amendment or on this change, is unchangeable. We would like to maintain both situations, that is, the person who, after being sent or transferred from another hospital of his own free will, is kept in this hospital locked up... so that the person who went there on his own has the same rights. As far as technique is concerned, we have considered quite intensively during the meeting of the Health Committee, that practically anyway it is about 3 weeks after the request to discharge such a person. So that's how we explain it. Of course, we will respond to the letter from the lady who came forward with doubts to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u319	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u320	Minister, I have not been to this committee meeting, I admit that I do not know this law very well, but by listening to you, as head of the social services centre for years, I was interested in whether this law also concerns the situation, so to speak, in normal homes of social assistance for the elderly. Because my experience teaches that the cases of those elderly people with Alzheimer's disease, the dementive ones who lose their sanity, who by the will of a family who doesn't know how to do it, or just doesn't want to... I've been told many times to consider my dad, my mom, my grandpa, my grandmother mentally ill. Well, you don't regulate these things. And these people, in turn, are dangerous to the environment and we had huge problems to respond to. Is this law somehow responding to those needs that will become more frequent? Most people with mental disorders will be among people of very late age. These issues are extremely difficult, because on the one hand human rights, and on the other hand there is a need to protect the rights of others. Does this law apply, and if so, will it be helpful?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u321	We're pretty sure it's gonna be helpful, because this is the area we're organizing. In this case, as I understand the senator's attention, this concerns a person who is insane, so this is important both in the context of forced hospitalisation, social assistance or generally closed medical treatment, as well as incapacity, direct coercion. These elements of direct coercion, on the one hand, meet judgments and directives, but on the other hand, they also give a certain sense of security to doctors, nurses and those who apply this obligation. It is likely that the senator has often encountered a situation of unjustified claims, and this monitoring we are pointing out here is to protect the staff from such claims. These are difficult situations. I do not want to develop this subject here, but, in fact, thanks to this law also people who pursue medical profession, medical professionals working in various establishments, will be protected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u322	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u323	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: why is there a mandatory involvement of lawyers in every case, simply by virtue of the law? That's my first question. And the second question: Minister, is it intended to abolish the court's consent to place a person with dementia in the DPS in a situation where she cannot or cannot consent? If such consent cannot be obtained, who will consent on behalf of that person? And my third question, Minister: do the plans to record the course of any direct coercion prove a total lack of trust in healthcare workers? These are my three questions. Thank you. [[Total opposition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This is about a public defender... [[Yes.]] ...not that it's... it's just that, in general, every person who's subject to such a restriction, such as. the placement without its own consent at the place of isolation, at the place of hospitalization, received legal assistance. 'Cause, you know, like... when it comes to what we have discussed here, speaking of these 30 days, the appeal is being executed by the court. The court, so to speak, executes the appeal with its judgment or decision. And now a person like that needs to have a lawyer to prepare specific documentation. That's the kind of situation we've come up with. Moreover, this applies as if to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The second question was... [[...the court's consent.]] Yes. Well, someone has to prepare these legal aspects for a person who may be insane, not fully aware or maybe deprived of those rights, which we violate in hospitalization and coercion. As far as consent is concerned, I do not fully understand at what stage this person, who is diagnosed with dementia, would be unable to give consent or consent. This bill isn't exactly what I'm gonna say, that's what this is about. At a time when a sick, mentally ill person is in a state of danger to his life in the sense that maybe he himself, so to speak, is life taken from himself, or poses a threat to the environment, we use compulsive treatment with full effect, so to speak, the specificity of such hospitalization, including direct coercion. I understand that the third question referred to this direct coercion... [[Yes. Did you plan to record the course...]] I was here to answer to the senator earlier. The recording, the monitoring in my opinion, is in order, so to say, to guarantee the safety of staff, because we often have a situation of this kind, that after the application of direct coercion, a person who is no longer in mania and this direct compulsion does not need, over-interprets the events that have happened. And it's not really an expression of lack of trust in staff, it's just staff security. That's it. Moreover, the requirement of the EU Directive and it refers to similar standards across Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u325	Minister, these questions arise from discussions with middle and medical staff, with people who have been working in psychiatry for many years, and partly with people who have these unfortunate people in psychiatric hospitals. If you'd be kind enough to answer that question in writing, I'd be obliged to you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew Król: When asked about monitoring.]] Especially when it comes to monitoring... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Of course.]] ...Mr. Minister, this is what was discussed mostly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u326	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Libicki and Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Locksmith. [[A psychiatrist, a psychiatrist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The question raised by Senator Libicki is to some extent included in Amendment 1 which the Health Committee has proposed to this law. This amendment consists in removing the intention to amend the provision in paragraph... in Article. 36. I very much agree with Senator Libicki on this issue, that there is a problem here, and, I think, I am very different from the Minister on this matter. My problem is that getting to the heart of the matter may not require expert knowledge, but it is an obstacle to the hermetic nature of this problem, which is enshrined in this amendment. This is about the situation of mentally ill people who do not feel that they are sick and who do not consent to treatment. All these 3 elements must be included, but it is not some very narrow population, it is a very wide group of people. I would like to mention, in advance of certain things, that the Ministry had given a negative opinion on this amendment and expressed the doubts that I would like to put forward here and to which I would like to respond. Well, there are three arguments. The first argument goes in this direction that maintaining the current wording will create a situation that is not in line with the Constitution. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current provision has been in force for 25 years and no one has raised such objections to this current provision. The second argument is that I am sorry, but I must build such structures, because this is the essence It may create a situation of unlawful treatment. I ask, what kind of unlawfulness is going on here, since this man is in this hospital after the court order? He was sent there by court order, so here we are not dealing with an illegal situation. And finally, the Ministry's third argument that this solution should be the Minister used this argument just now It is similar to solutions to persons who are incapacitated who do not have time limits as to when they may apply to the court for discharge. I think this analogy is a little lame. We are dealing with people who are being treated in a mandatory manner, so this compulsion has a limit. They'll stop being incapacitated after treatment. In short, it seems to me that from the legal side these allegations on the amendment of the Committee on Health is not relevant. But I am abandoning this, let's say, very specialized context and I would like to move this discussion to a ground that I think is fundamental in this matter. Mentally ill people have no sense of disease, especially in these severe diseases. If we want to help them, we are faced with a dilemma to what extent We can force them to heal. We must resolve the following: what is the greater good of this person Her freedom or her health? And that is the essence of this problem: freedom or health? The records so far indicated that health is a higher value. A change that is being proposed and which the Health Committee, let's say, would like to withdraw... The current proposal from the Ministry of Health is that freedom is more important than health. Of course, we are talking about a certain situation, about 30 days in the hospital. We may have different positions on this issue, and I will say my opinion here. I think we're restricted by the use of freedom. In short, to be fully free, it's worth being healthy. In my opinion, the introduction of the Ministry's proposal will increase the suffering of sick people and increase the suffering among families of sick people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on tourist events and related tourist services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 641, and the report of the Commission In print No 641 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u329	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The opinion is intended to implement the European Parliament Directive into the Polish legal order. The Act sets out the conditions for offering, selling and implementing tourist events and related tourist services in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as abroad, if agreements with travellers are concluded by tourist entrepreneurs established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and regulates the rules for the functioning of the Tourist Guarantee Fund. This very specialized bill was being processed... In fact, there were only doubts due to the fact that... At the committee meeting there were representatives of both the Polish Chamber of Tourism and the Polish Scouts Association who proposed certain amendments. The implementation of European law has to do with the fact that Member States are introducing more detail in some provisions. And just because of the doubt that came up at the committee meeting... As soon as it was completed, a compromise was reached, agreed with the Minister present here. I submit the five amendments mentioned at the committee meeting, but there was no unanimity during the session. Following the meeting of the committee, a meeting was held during which 5 amendments tabled to the Act were detailed. If you don't mind... There is a minister here who is a specialist in this field, and I know he can briefly report something that I would talk about for a long time. As far as the committee's report is concerned, I think I've said everything. There was no major controversy. Everyone voted in favour. [[For accepting no amendments.]] Yes. [[Now we have to make amendments to the discussion.]] Yes. During the committee meeting, it was reported that there would be a discussion of these amendments after the meeting. Already at the committee meeting, there was a report that we were going to talk about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u330	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I must say that I was pleased with the message you gave to Senator Pekkis, because indeed also the representatives of the Legislative Office, and we, the senators in the minority, reported the need for interference in the provisions of the bill at least two points. The first issue concerned the clarity of the wording. I don't know what happened after the committee meeting. I'm putting forward a proposal that says that in the article. In paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 2 words do not represent a significant part of... to make this more precise by reference, as I recall, to Germany, Estonia and several other countries of the European Union, to risk and write down that this is 25%. If this were to go in that direction, of course we would be happy to accept it. I hear you do. Great. This is very important. The second point that we raised here is written on several points. They relate to the same case. Of course, this is what NGOs signalled, which, according to the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, carry out paid activities, including in the field of tourism, which is not an economic activity. The point is that the activities carried out by the Scouts of the Republic of Poland, ZHP, churches and religious unions, which are of a periodic, cyclical, non-profit-making nature, are very important. But the performance of the statutory tasks of non-governmental organizations... The point is to shut this kind of situation out. The Minister said that it was quite difficult for you to consult and that there was no explicit consent, but I believe that, because of the importance of the case, we should agree to go on a separate path in this case. Minister, I believe... I am once again referring to a situation which was very similar, i.e. strict compliance with the rules on equal competition and public aid in relation to VAT. Whatever, but the VAT issue is the Union's eyeball watch. Right? For this reason, food donations were not exempted from VAT for so long, even though the situation was so absurd that if someone destroyed the food, he could deduct the VAT, and when he handed it over to some organization, he could not. That was in line with EU law. Fixing this under Polish law resulted in some conflict with EU law, but we decided to do so. It's not just us, it's other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a few years, and the Ministry of Finance doesn't signal any threats in this area. As we expected, no country, no organisation, no company has raised objections to the European Union, the European Commission or the Court in this regard. Therefore, I believe that, for the sake of the cause, in order to preserve the situation in which public benefit organisations, churches and religious unions are not burdened with such ailment, including financial expenditure, we should do Here's the apostasy. I am convinced, Minister, that no one will question this and that it is worth going this way. That is why we have tabled these amendments as a minority. I hope that at this next sitting we will find a way to make this law deserve only praise. Now, on behalf of the opposition senators, I would like to say that of course it is important that we do this... the safety of tourists will certainly improve. It is worth emphasising and we accept it with satisfaction. Well, you'd just want it to be no more buts. For now, with this little? We're staying, but my hope is growing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u332	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls... I'm sorry, it was a report from a minority of committees. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. [[There are no calls.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[But there's a protocol report...]] Who? [[Senator Pekkis.]] I inform you that Senator Pekkis has made his speech... [[Not a speech, but legislative proposals.]] Corrections, not speech. I would like to inform you that Senator Pekkis has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the Chamber: During the committee meeting...]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 631, and the report of the Commission In print No 631 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u333	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act was examined by the Infrastructure Commission at 2 meetings. After the first meeting, we came to the conclusion that there were small fragments in which the bill should be supplemented. We met again today, and the bill was supplemented by some amendments. The Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws responds to the requirement to reduce administrative obligations imposed on traders involved in the sale or manufacture of motor vehicles or technical testing of vehicles. These entities requested the introduction of the so-called law into the Polish system. A professional registration card. This will be a simplified document allowing the legal performance of test vehicles using a single registration number for many vehicles without having to register the vehicle at any time. The amendments I was talking about, and which we made in the gap between the two meetings of the committee, the detailed amendments were to prevent such registration document from being issued with a very simplified, professional, without prior registration with a mandatory technical examination, without the need to appear in the old age, on simplified rules concerning the insurance of such a vehicle, so as to prevent such registration for vehicles which were already registered and for which there would be a certain risk that such simplified registration document could create an opportunity to circumvent existing vehicle registration rules. Because it implied the danger that someone could use such a simplified, very simplified vehicle registration system, e.g. in order to circumvent the excise duty applicable in the Republic of Poland. Well, if someone were to fill out such a registration blank on their own, on the basis of some statements that they would later make to the office of old age and that they would account for, then there would be this theoretical possibility that we wanted to eliminate. And that's why these possibilities have been eliminated. The postulate they reported... At the committee meeting quite a number of NGOs were represented, e.g. was represented by the Polish Association of Automotive Industry, former representatives of the Polish Automotive Association, former representatives of the expert community, former representatives of 2 groups of insurers. And it was the insurance community that asked for one more amendment, which during the transition period... Because this law deals with certain activities that will ultimately be implemented on the CEPiK 2.0 platform digitally, i.e. it will be done without the participation of paper documentation, at least this is in the outline of the target action, and hence a very long introduction period, 18 months. During this transitional period, the documentation will be carried out on the basis of applications still carried out on paper. And here's the danger of a quick... the danger of eliminating the possibility of finding out if it was difficult to determine who was the perpetrator of the accident and where the vehicle was insured at the time of the accident. Therefore, it was called for 30 days to be converted into 14 days. And one of the amendments tabled at the committee meeting actually followed this request. But since, as it turned out later, after a thorough reading of the text, in 2 other places of the bill, this period, or 30 days, appears, it would be to clarify that it is 14 days rather than 30 days, so that I submit an additional amendment. We just didn't catch that at the committee meeting when we were making the changes. There were quite a lot of minor amendments tabled that rebuilt a little bit of the text. So that this clarification amendment in the remaining 2 places converts the words '30 days' into '14 days'. I'm making this amendment. I would still like to thank the Minister present, who during the Literally two working days with his staff, he has done a great deal of work to meet what the senators have proposed. It was a titanium job. In addition, I can say that the requested representatives of the Ministry of Finance participated in this work. So it was a very, very big job. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u334	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators... [[Voice from the room: Microphone...]] Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u335	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, from what the rapporteur has presented, it appears that a great deal of work has been done in the Senate. Minister, why did this happen? This is actually a lot, and this is a government presentation. If this were a parliamentary presentation, it would be possible for Members, excuse me, to drop... It also shows that the Senate is needed. By the way, something must have happened earlier. Would you mind telling me what happened? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u336	Turn on the mike, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u337	We've already dealt with the technique, so that you can... [[Again with the senators' help.]] Yes, sir. It was a very difficult bill. We really did a lot of work at the ministry and, together with the senators, we led to a happy end. That was the specifics of the bill. Finally, the excise amendment... It was about us being able to catch car owners who might try to avoid paying excise duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u338	Thank you. As I understand it, no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Pekkis. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you beautifully.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare the report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic and the law on drivers of vehicles. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 507, and the committee's report In print No 507 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions of Senator Marek Borowski to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. Because I don't see your senator, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 18 to 19 minutes 22]] Let's get back to work. Senator Borowski is already in the Chamber, and I therefore ask him as rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u339	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I was at a certain distance from the Senate and I didn't make it... [[I see.]] High Senate! Mr. Marshal! The bill I am presenting has been initiated by the Legislative Commission. Excuse me, I just need a minute... [[Voice from the room: Water, maybe?]] There's no need for water. I just have to wait a minute. The draft was initiated by the Legislative Commission and stems from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was delivered about a year ago. This case was brought to the attention of the Ombudsman. The point is that... As you know, there is a provision in Poland that extends the catalogue of cases in which a driver loses his driver's license, he stops his driver's license. The extension is that this is a well-known provision of retention of a driving licence and then the final decision of the old age ends with a speed exceeding of 50 km/h in the built-up area, as well as the carriage of passengers in the vehicle to this unsuitable, e.g. the transport of more passengers than is permitted. The Ombudsman drew attention and the Court has agreed to this. That there may be special situations in which the driver drives at an unauthorised speed, which threatens to retain his driver's licence, but he does so because of the so-called. higher necessity, above all, to save life or health. And then there's the problem, because the laws of the past require a police officer to stop the driver's driver's driver's license and hand him over to his old age. Then there is the whole procedure, and it can end so that the driver will only get his driver's license after 3 months, and in fact what he did was a necessity, the situation justified such behaviour. Therefore, our committee, after considering this issue and, of course, after consulting the relevant resorts, including the Police, proposes this solution to supplement the Road Traffic Act, as well as the Vehicle Managers Act, with a provision that does not apply to the obligation to retain a driving licence if the driver was acting in a higher state of necessity. It's a little bit more formulated there, I'd say, scientifically. Moreover, there was a discussion around this phrase. In the first version prepared by the Legislative Commission, this provision was shorter, slightly simpler. In this final version, we accepted the Ministry of Justice's proposal to apply here a more extensive formula, which says that this speeding, this violation of the rule had to be caused by the pursuit of saving life or health, if this could not be achieved otherwise, and the consecrated good in the form of road safety was less than that which was to be saved. It's kind of a complicated formula, but eventually the committee decided to take this solution. At the same time, you have to face the fact that the policeman who's making the decision at the moment... It was only a matter for a policeman to have the right to make such a decision, but of course he may not make it. It may consider that the driver's explanation on this issue is unbelievable or even unbelievable. And in such a situation, of course, he stops his driver's license. Besides, as we know, it gives a certificate that allows you to reach your destination, but stops your driver's license and passes it on to your old age. And this was about cutting this procedure short, I mean. The decision to be made by the governor is to be made as soon as possible. We considered that this should happen within 14 days so that he could consider any driver's arguments and make a decision, of course, as he would consider appropriate, but as quickly as possible, so that the driver, who may have acted in a higher state of necessity, would not deprive the driver of his licence for a longer period of time. This project has been adopted. As I recall, there was no objection to this project, and this is how I present it to the High House. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u340	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Marek Borowski to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Pekkis, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u341	I have two questions, Senator. It is well known that people who lose their driver's license in this way are unfortunately getting behind the wheel again. Did you consider at the committee meeting such a case that the person who thus lost his licence and was waiting for the decision of your old man, e.g. For 14 days, she gets caught again without her driver's license? Have you considered such a case? It just happens. And then what? Then the question is, is this person... Well, even a celebrity recently, the daughter of a celebrity was caught this way. These people don't stop driving because they lost the document. They believe that driving is essential for their physical functioning in today's society and do so. And second question. Some countries are moving in a different direction, moving towards such draconian punishments. And I often met with such an argument that Poles are a nation so free that he will never allow himself to be slapped so much, to impose penalties on himself, etc. But I know from friends who think that they have such freedom of soul that if they go to Scandinavia or Switzerland, where there are draconian punishments for every speeding, then this punishment, inevitable, draconian punishment, causes such a free soul to take its foot off the gas. Don't you think that what's being presented today is just a ploy to use these special cases just to leave a chance to avoid this punishment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u342	Whenever exceptions are introduced, there is, of course, a risk, but I don't think that risk is significant in this case. After all, recording the speed exceedance of any speed exceedance, let alone 50 km/h remains in the documentation and is to be verified. If a policeman hasn't decided to get a ticket, even though the speed recorder has registered such a overrun, he's gonna have to explain it and explain it, right? So he's got to have strong arguments. Well, if the driver's driving, for example. The woman who's giving birth, then it's all to be checked out, e.g. in hospital Where, what, like, etc. After all, this is about such a very special case. Or, for example, if. Someone's driving a private car to a disaster victim, but they decide to help because they need to be brought to the hospital quickly... In the discussions we had, we asked how often something like this happens. These kinds of cases happen very rarely, you can count them on the arts, they're not hundreds of these kind of events. Well, only that the law should also take such situations into account. So that a man, who very often of good will, taking his time and even taking a little risk, takes such, I would say, a social function, then does not suffer consequences in the form of that, for example. He won't have a driver's license for three months. What the senator was talking about here would be a one-storey example. This would mean that someone who had previously been taken a driving licence just for speeding on such a scale, then, as it turns out, does a very useful job, again exceeding speed, only this time without a driving licence. Well, I have to say, this is where you killed me. What should I do in such a situation? He doesn't have that driver's license anymore. So I think... [[He shouldn't have gotten behind the wheel.]] Of course, he shouldn't be behind the wheel at all. And I suspect that this case will go to court sooner or later, and the court will deal with it. There's nothing we can do about it. And as for penalties, that's a different topic at all, because this change doesn't apply at all. There are different schools. E.g. Finnish school punishes by a percentage of wages. Yeah, it looks good on the eye. But it requires a very good computerization, or it'll turn into some kind of cumbersome procedure. By the way, as far as penalties are concerned, I think the penalty prohibits a driver's license... And today we have such regulations, that if someone drives without a driver's license, they finally have criminal consequences, i.e. He could go to jail. So it's hard to imagine more. We know every driver knows it, and you and I know it's better to pay than to get points, and points are. But of course we don't do it, so I'm speaking theoretically. [[It's connected: points and money.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We have immunity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u343	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u344	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, do I understand correctly that this law is in fact applicable to all cases where there is a deficit of aid related to the mass of communication? I mean, for example, situations where accidents on motorways sometimes involve dozens of vehicles, and the arrival of ambulances with assistance is impossible firstly, because of their number on a given area, and secondly, it requires a double route of getting to the location of the accident and later possible transport to... Another question. Aren't you afraid of the opposite situation, that in view of such doubts that are raised in the present state, there will simply be no aid?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u345	As for the first case that the senator was gracious to mention, that is, accidents... [[It's aggregate.]] ...in which many cars are involved, many vehicles on the highway, this is not an option at all, because we are talking about taking a 50 km/h speeding license in a built-up area, so that there is no problem on the highway. As for the second point, whether or not I'm afraid of any abuse... [[We are dealing with a deficit of aid.]] Okay, but this is... If we do not adopt this law and leave the present state, the risk that such a driver will be treated as an ordinary road pirate is increasing, is greater. If this law is adopted, it will decrease. Of course, it's assumed that the cops would behave like I said, consciously in all these cases, but I don't see any reason to assume otherwise. As is the presumption of constitutionality of the law, even though it is different, it is the same with the police.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u346	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u347	High Senate! Mr. Marshal! The position of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction presented at the last meeting was not included in the draft amendment to the Act. In the view of the Ministry of Justice of the existence of conditions for the determination of a higher need, it should be decided only by the road traffic control authority and, in the event of disagreement as to the existence of a higher need, the court should decide so. We believe that an elder as an authority should not conduct administrative and evidence proceedings to confirm whether or not there was a higher necessity in a given situation. This would be inappropriate, since the old-timer would have to act as a quasi-decision body in proceedings for misdeeds in the replacement of ordinary courts or even assess their judgments. In our opinion, the governor is not and should not be entitled to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u348	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Pekkis.]] Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u349	Minister, did you make such an amendment or not? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u350	This was our position presented during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u351	Are there any more questions? [[There isn't.]] [[Hurry up.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u352	With regard to the Minister's last statement... You said that the authority of control should decide on a higher degree of necessity. My question is whether an organ can in any situation, especially in a situation where there is a need to save lives... Are you able to guarantee that this will take place in sufficient time and under appropriate conditions, even if the procedure was post-factum? Could you make an objective decision on e.g. the lack of... the violence of a situation that doesn't assume that there will be witnesses, that there will be photographs, that there will be any evidence? Can you guarantee that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u353	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u354	If you don't mind, Senator... We think that in the same situation there will be an elder after e.g. To stop this driver's license. He won't have any pictures either. He won't have any witnesses either. On the other hand, he will probably ask the traffic control authorities to provide evidence and present the situation. So that we stand in a position to simplify this procedure and, however, entrust it to traffic controllers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u355	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of military courts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 636 and the report of the Commission In print No 636 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jan Dobrzyński, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate's law aims to ensure the consistency of the regulations contained in the Law of 21 August 1997 on the system of military courts and the Law of 9 October 2009 on military discipline and the Law of 27 July 2001 on the system of universal courts. In fact, we can talk about two changes. The first is the amendment covered by the Article. Point 1 of the Act concerns one of the grounds for the expiry of the juror's term of office. And the second amendment is an amendment to the article. 70 §1 of the Law on the Government of Military Courts. On 8 November, the Commission adopted the Act addressed to the Senate and requested the adoption of the Act without amendment. In fact, there have been many discussions on this matter, so that I ask the Senate to adopt this law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u357	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u358	I have a formal question. Are there jurors in the military courts as well... [[Yes...]] And from whom and by whom are they chosen?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u359	We didn't talk about it on the committee. Here, a government representative could answer. That amendment shall take account of the circumstances in accordance with Article. 17 of the above mentioned law on military discipline. So if a soldier committed a crime, and it would be a very low-ranking offense, and it would be a good soldier, it would be an opportunity for him to avoid this punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u360	Are there any more questions? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion... [[There's the government.]] Oh, excuse me. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Shortly, if you will, Mr. Marshal.]] Please. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: From the spot?]] As you wish, he could be on the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, it will be very brief. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's position is, of course, positive, because the law which was designed at the Ministry of Justice is an absolutely non-controversial law, has raised no doubts either in the course of the seismic work or in the course of the Senate's work. She is clarifying certain matters concerning, as the Senator rapporteur mentioned, the current legal situation, the alignment of it with the law on military discipline. The law also allows What is also important, and did not sound in the report by the rapporteur To conduct a rational employment economy in military judiciary. As a result of changes in the law on the system of universal courts and the failure of the law on the system of military courts to comply with those which were introduced in the basic law on universal justice, it was de facto not possible to have military courts and to assign military judges' posts where they were needed in view of the specific impact of the cases. This law corrects this error, allows us to apply the same rules in military judiciary as in general court. And that is why it is a law which, it seems, deserves the support of the High House And that's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u362	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u363	I would just like to ask the Minister: do I understand correctly that the current judges of military courts will be able to rule in civil courts? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u364	No, no, Senator, maybe I wasn't precise. Of course, the judges of the military courts... It is no secret that, after the changes made a few years ago, military courts do not suffer from excessive work, these cases are very few, and it is therefore possible, on the basis of a delegation given by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister of National Defence, to rule by military judges in common courts. And it's happening all the time. What I was talking about was more about a situation where a judge of the military court, for example. The Military Garrison Court in Szczecin, is promoted and there is a vacancy, because the judge has no way of allocating this job elsewhere, e.g. move to Warsaw because the regulations are inadequate. In the case of judges of general courts, this mechanism is described, in the case of judges of military courts it was missing, and this law deletes inter alia. This gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u365	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up to speak. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u366	Messages. Message one. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of requests submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws to improve the legal environment for innovative activities, Senate prints No 646 and 646 A, will take place tomorrow, i.e. November 15th, 8:15 p.m. in room 217. Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Budget Act for 2017, Senate prints Nos 644 and 644 A, and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, Senate prints Nos 645 and 645 A, will take place on 15 November at 8.30 p.m. in room No 217. Message three. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on Tourism Events and Related Tourist Services, print No 641, will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 182. And message four. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of requests submitted at the 50th Senate meeting of the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, Senate printing Nos 631 and 631 A, will take place tomorrow at 8.45 am in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-14-senat-50-1.u367	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 50]]
