ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u1	High Senate, I open the fifty-third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[A voice from the room: Hard?]] It's not easy. I appoint Senators Arkadiusz Grabowski and Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its fiftieth fourth meeting on 15 December 2017 has been held. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, Mr and Mrs Senators. ... accepted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Act on Social Cooperatives and some other laws; to the Act on Insurance Distribution; to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance and some other laws; to the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. I would like to inform you that at the same meeting on 15 December 2017, the Sejm rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the forty-eight and forty-nineth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points two, three, four, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of point two: a law amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities and consider it as the last point, i.e. On the 18th. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 50th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Mr and Mrs Senators, I would like to inform you that for the examination of the first point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 Year of Scouting, we will proceed tomorrow at 11 a.m. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. In addition, I would like to inform you that tomorrow at 3:00 p.m., there will be an adjournment of the session during which the senate meeting will take place in room 217. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in connection with the 25th anniversary of the resumption of Polish-Georgia diplomatic relations yesterday, i.e. On 18 December this year, a strategic partnership agreement was signed between the Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the President of the parliament of Georgia. We proceed with the second agenda: the Law on the State Protection Service. The text of the Act is contained in print No 680 and the report of the Commission In print No 680 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] Yesterday, two committees considered this bill together. It was a government bill designed to transform the Government Protection Office into a State Protection Service. Our Legislative Office has submitted 20 comments, 20 proposals for this law. These proposals were mostly technical legislative proposals, but there were also proposals clarifying the different types of provisions in this law. Yesterday, at the joint committee meeting, the bill was presented by the director of the department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the head of the Office for Government Protection. According to their decision, no proposal for an amendment was accepted by the government. Senator Florek has filed a motion to reject the bill. An application for adoption of the law was also submitted without amendment. Senator Florek also took over all the proposals of the Legislative Bureau's amendments, which were included in the Legislative Bureau's comments. A few words about the bill. Minister Zieliński is in the courtroom, so I think he will be more specific about the principles of this law. We are transforming BOR into the State Protection Service. We are giving this service new powers, including for operational and research activities, which raised some controversy at the committee meeting. We specify who is protected, under which rules, we also extend the scope of the protected persons under this Act. We are removing a loophole that was also mentioned at the committee meeting. The point is that, under certain conditions and under certain circumstances, those who have protection will be able to waive this protection. In the light of the current legislation, this possibility was not possible. We are also strengthening the position of Head of State Security Service, which will be the commandant. It will become the primary body of government administration. Once again, I'm going to go back to the powers that raised such big controversy, i.e. to be authorised in the field of surgical and exploratory activities. A government representative said that most of the services in the world... maybe otherwise, most of the services in Europe, except 3, have such privileges and this is a standard. Thanks to these records The State Protection Service will be able to obtain sensitive data on its own, but only to the extent necessary to protect the most important persons in the State and facilities that are also protected. Three senators took part in the discussion. Senator Rulewski asked whether Mr Donald Tusk is under protection in Poland as President of the Council of the European Union and whether such protection is subject to the primacy. Senator Florek has generally expressed his dissatisfaction with this bill. He asked how many people were protected because he thought there was more. He also asked about the importance of increasing the powers of the State Protection Service and consequently requested that the law be rejected in its entirety. I also took the floor in the discussion, which was as if a consequence of the Director's reply from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, who stated that the Office for Government Protection has about 370 million liabilities to officers in connection with the unfulfilled obligations arising from the equivalent of residences for officers over the years. Well, it aroused my surprise and concern, because the amount is large. These commitments have not been implemented for many years and, as the head of the BOR explained, there have been only isolated cases... Some officers went to court on this matter, and of course they must win these trials... The representatives of the MMA ensure that they are gradually trying to fulfil these obligations. Well, the amount is very, very large and it, according to the rules on interest, is obviously increasing. Back to the questions of the senators, I can say that the head of the BOR stated that Mr Donald Tusk should be protected in the territory of the Republic of Poland and that protection is provided as the head of state, because it is treated as such. As regards the question concerning the Primate of Poland, the head of BOR refused to answer, he said that these are information which is not given on general terms. Any person who feels threatened may request protection from the BOR and, if he meets certain requirements, receives such protection. As part of the discussion, Senator Florek also asked a few other questions. He asked, among others. whether the number of protected persons has increased. The head of the BOR concluded that the exact data could not be provided because they were covered by secrecy. All he said was that the number of people protected was smaller... slightly smaller than the previous power. So I'm not confirming... Senator Florek also asked about some changes in personnel that may result from the implementation of this law. And here was the assurance from both the representative of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration as well as the head of the BOR that the transformation of the BOR into a SOP does not, of course, serve as a mass purgatory, and even, as has been said, is planned to increase the number of officers. Today, around 2 000 people work in the BOR, while the number of officers is planned to increase to 3 000 in a 10-year perspective. Yeah, well, it's not expected to be fired, but there might be some kind of incident. This law ensures that, within two months, all present workers and officers of the BOR by law become employees of the State Protection Service. But within two months, the SOP commander will present new work proposals and if they are not accepted, then of course it will be possible to leave the service. But, as I said, the head of the BOR announced that it is not the intention to throw anyone out, but nevertheless expects that some of the people who took management positions will not accept these new conditions, as one of the elements will flatten the steering structure. So if someone was some sort of head of the unit, and now he can't be the boss anymore, maybe he won't accept those terms. And if somebody doesn't come up with new conditions, it's an accident. And let me repeat here again: we want to increase the number of officers, so it would be difficult to throw someone out today. That's not what this bill is for. And one more point that came to mind at the committee meeting. We've been informed that the government's security office has the largest overtime rate of all services. So that today, in relation to those tasks that BOR has, there are people missing. And for that reason, there will definitely be no layoffs here. Another such element, which this law introduces, raised during the presentation of the bill at a committee meeting, namely the possibility of moving officers within the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to this new service. So far, BOR officers may have become police officers, maybe become officers in some other service, e.g. The Border Guard or the Homeland Security, but the other way around, it didn't work. This law will allow cops who want to move to the SOP to be able to do so and will not have to go through the full recruitment procedure. In addition, in this recruitment procedure to the State Security Service, some elements will also change, for example. It's psychophysical. The point is also that, so to speak, the protection of those who enter the service, because they protect the highest state authorities. I sum up: the motion to reject the law was rejected by the committee and the motion to adopt the law was accepted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and Mr Tomasz Miłkowski, Head of Government Protection Office at the Senate. Hello, gentlemen, very cordially. Before I give my vote to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my vote to the senators. The senators may submit a request to the Senator for a maximum of one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. And then Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. You said this bill wasn't about cleaning up the government's office. Please explain whether this law provides that if an officer does not receive a proposal to work in the State Protection Service within 2 months, he will no longer be employed in this new institution. Will it be like you said, if the person concerned does not accept the proposal for a new position As it is now in the provisions of the Act Is it then that he ceases to work, that is, the decision is on his side, or can such a person not receive any proposal at all, that is, the decision is on the side of the minister and the head of this new institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Perhaps Senator Augustine will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u6	The law also falls within the scope and way of protecting the Sejm and the Senate. Tell me what's changing about this. Will the new service be given more authority to us as well, senators, or will it have Is there a right to impose any kind of behavior on us? How does the law change in this regard and why?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u7	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u8	To answer Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question... About the fact that there won't be a purgatory... I said that such a declaration was made at the committee meeting. This is not my declaration, because I have no authority in this regard. That's one point. Second note. In the context of personalities, I am now reminded that Senator Florek at the committee meeting asked how many presidents of the BOR changed during the rule of law and justice, i.e. the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The answer was two. One person was in charge at the time, but she wasn't the boss, by the way. And to answer the question... Well, all officers are going through the law, and if they don't get a proposal or they don't accept it, they won't be working anymore... within five months, right? As I recall. [[So if they don't get the proposal, do I get it?]] I can quote you: 5 months after the date of entry into force of the Act, if the SOP officer or employee does not receive a written proposal from the SOP Commandant setting out new conditions for service or work or pay conditions within 2 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, his employment or employment relationship expires. [[Two months?]] [[5 months.]] No, in five months. [[Thank you very much...]] And since the bill came into force, it's gonna be... As for the question of Senator Augustine, this issue was very marginally raised in the committee, it was said in this regard This is only an adjustment of the law to such current requirements, and the revolution in this area will only come, because after the first reading there is a law which sets out a new model of functioning of the Marshal's Guard. She will be passed in January and de facto all the provisions which in this law concern the Marshal's Guard, and so will be repealed by that law, so we have been informed, because there will be a complete remodeling of the status, powers, functioning of the Marshal's Guard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u9	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm going back to the question about the concept of purgatory. If you say that everyone is going to a new formation, provided that they get a proposal from the commander of this new formation, then the sentence is not real, because the real sentence is: you'll get past the terms. This is the first case. And the question is, since the senator is talking about it, and those were the declarations... Have you considered such a matter in committee: if there is a declaration by the Minister or the Head of the BOR that cases concerning possible cleansings or redundancies, to put it nicer, will be cases of incidents, i.e. 2 000 people, I understand, 3 people, then why is there a procedure for 2 and 3 people? Normally it's like this: everyone goes through, and incidents are solved as incidents. So if this isn't supposed to be a purge, then why make such a bill that you'll go through like me, the future boss, and I'll give you my permission? Well, that's... I'm not saying it will be, I hope it won't be, but it bears the mark of the purgatory. I'd ask the senator to refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! My question is whether the possible transition of former officials from the Government Security Office to the State Security Service will be preceded by a process of vetting, so that the new service to serve the State cannot be permitted, for example. former secret co-workers or officers of the apparatus of repression at the time of communism. Does this bill provide for this? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u13	Please, Mr. Senator. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u14	To answer the question of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, I would say this: I may have used an unfortunate term, speaking colloquially about cleansings, but the current head of the BOR does not predict that so to speak... I don't know who's gonna be the State Security Chief. There's a minister here who might leak that information. There are currently no mass changes in personnel, because it would be difficult to accept half of the BOR officers, to decide that they should not continue to function in this new service, in a situation where today, with this number of officers, there is so much overtime to take into account the needs of protected persons. That's one thing. On the second point, in order to be very, very precise, I will explain that every officer and employee of the BOR by virtue of this law will become an employee of the SOP. It's not gonna be him if he gets the offer. On the date of the entry into force of the SOP Act, all employees and officers of today's BOR will automatically enter this new service. Later, within two months, these officers and employees... Because this includes not only officers, but also civilian workers who support all of this. Well, the bill provides for a certain process of verification by the head of those who will be SOP officers by then. And they will actually get job offers within 2 months. If they do not receive this proposal, the employment relationship will expire within the next three months. So everyone, anyway, will work these five months at the State Security Service. [[You could've just...]] Well, no, sir, there must be a certain continuity in carrying out the tasks of protecting the most important people in the country. After all, no one responsible, no one who will manage the State Security Service and, as a result, is responsible for the safety of the most important people in our country, including the President and Prime Minister, and Mr Donald Tusk, will not be rid of all the officers, because these tasks must be carried out. Like I said, no major personnel changes are expected. That's the declaration. If there's any change, it'll be an accident. The Head of the BOR expects that some people themselves will not accept new working conditions if they do not receive proposals for adequate management positions. I am talking about these leadership positions because, as we have been told, the structure of this new service and these leadership positions will be less. However, personal reinforcements are expected. That's why, among other things. is inserted I've already told you about that, too. This simplified procedure so that present police officers or officers of the Internal Security Agency, of course, if they wish, can move to this new service and strengthen it with their knowledge and qualifications. So here there is no concern that one of the present employees and officers will not be admitted. They're moving to the SOP by law. I'll answer Senator Rusiecki's question. There was no mention of that. When it comes to mirrors, I don't know if they're in the BOR. About me. Now I'm expressing my private opinion. I can't imagine such people operating in the BOR today and in the future in the State Protection Service, but it's obviously up to the Minister and the future SOP chief. This subject, the subject of the vetting, was not touched.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u16	Mr. Senator, I have two questions, a little connected. First, please tell me if the new service is getting any new operational opportunities, and if so, why. Next question. We've listened so much to the peans about how our service is excellent. And it's true that they've dealt with World Youth Day, the protection of the Pope, the big tasks, the NATO summit... [[The Ministry...]] ...and many other important events that I think now we all have the right to be surprised. What do you mean? Everything was enough, everything worked out and we're changing it. It doesn't seem logical.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u17	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u18	Mr. Senator, I understand this design: 5 months plus 2 months. [[No, five.]] No, then there's two months to decide. [[No...]] [[The whole trial in five months.]] In five months. Okay. Tell me if those people who don't get a job offer or agree to a position and leave, leave... Will the housing equivalent, the overtime equivalent be paid to them, or is that the cut in which these equivalents are lost? You were talking about housing, but you were talking about overtime. What's it gonna be like for people who leave?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u20	To answer to Senator Augustine one at a time... Yes, Mr. Senator, this new service gets new powers that the BOR didn't have. This was mentioned at the committee meeting and will have the power to carry out operational and exploratory activities. Of course, only to the extent that it is necessary to carry out its tasks, i.e. to protect persons and designated objects. It won't be as broad an operational and cognitive powers as they have. I don't know. Homeland Security or other services, intelligence, counterintelligence. They will, of course, be limited to carrying out the tasks of the service. As I said before, it was said at the committee meeting. There are two elements here. Firstly, most of these services, which protect the most important people in a country in the European Union, have such powers. That's one thing. Secondly, today, the Office of Government Protection is not an equal partner to other services. He's a patentor to some extent, because if he needs some information, those services must give it to him, but the BOR itself cannot obtain this information, and some services ♪ Like I said ♪ Even because the BOR does not have such competences, they do not always want to share this analytical, operational information. We are talking about both our services and external services, because in the case of foreign delegations' visits, which are also protected, the BOR also cooperates with its counterparts from different countries, so here it is. So far, BOR has had competence in preventive measures, and today he will have an operational and cognitive... And this is a new competence, which was widely discussed at the committee meeting. And the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have stated that this competence is important, important for the purpose of carrying out tasks. Remember, we live in an increasingly unstable world, there are more and more dangers. Therefore, the stronger, the more effective this service will be, the more effective it will be to perform its duties, i.e. to protect our most important politicians, as well as those foreign ones who come to Poland with delegations, i.e. presidents, heads of state, heads of government, was mentioned who we would protect The heads of parliaments, our various guests, as well as representatives of foreign ministers, because it follows from international conventions that such protection is due to these people. As for the second question, the service is good, so why are we making changes... I think that very many services were involved in the protection of World Youth Days, the whole of Poland was involved. You can't say it's BOR. Of course, BOR in a special way, but not to judge me because... I mean, maybe otherwise: I may have my private assessment, but my private assessment. It's like I'm going a little beyond... [[The way we judge her.]] ...being the rapporteur. If everything were okay, we wouldn't be making that kind of change. On the one hand, there seemed to have been some oversights, some shortcomings that caused this to be corrected. On the other hand, Mr. Senator knows it very well. We know what security issues were, with the president, etc., etc. I say it as an audience, as a recipient, because I don't have any classified information. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we also add new powers, new competences and expand certain activities. And that's one thing. I answer to Marshal Borusewicz: this was of course not mentioned at the committee meeting in such detail, but it is logical that if someone leaves, he is paid all due under the provisions of the law of witnessing. We will have to pay not only to those officers who will eventually leave, but also to those who will remain. That 370 million is an awful lot of money even for the state budget. The question is why for so many years the Polish state has failed to fulfil its obligations. [[The last three years.]] It was necessary to amend the law in this regard and to deprive it of such opportunities. And if such opportunities are calculated, but not paid, then it is a great dishonesty, also in relation to these officers. And for that responsibility must be taken by the Polish state. So I'm sure all the officers will have to pay it off. I think that in the first place, of course, those who will go away. Same for overtime. I'll tell you so colloquially: I'm sorry, no mercy does anyone to pay overtime. And all that is left and all that is left. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Although the Senator rapporteur has already said in part the question I would like to ask, I would like it to sound like it again, because some fellow senators are looking for a second bottom to force some of the government's employees to leave after the change. [[Force?]] Because if today... Is it true that today there are very many executive positions in the Government Protection Office, and in the new State Protection Service this reduction is well carried out and these positions are no longer so many, so the managers will not get a proposal to take up this position, just become an ordinary employee? And they can mostly not take the job as government security officials. And this is the moment when they can leave the government's office for several or several dozen. I don't know how many it's gonna be. But I guess that's what it's all about, and you don't have to look for any other bottoms with that reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u23	Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to ask you about the name of this new service. The State Protection Service. Have you considered this matter at the committee meeting? It seems, however, that the Office of Government Protection during these years of free Poland, since 1989 has already built such a position, built its brand, its history, that it is a little regret to lose such a name. It is one of those names which already in general reception means institutions that are positively functioning. After all, in Poland there are many institutions which today have the same name as they had in the times of the Polish People's Republic, we do not change everything. And this is an attempt to eliminate the good one. Maybe not, I don't know. The tradition of the already free time of Poland. Over the years, and after all, everyone in Poland has ruled, and post-communist parties, and all the others, as we know, have never occurred to anyone to change it, precisely because of this tradition. Will this formation called the State Protection Service take over the tradition of the Government Protection Office? I'm asking because these kind of units, military formations have something that takes over flags, achievements, etc. And they're putting their story into it. Will it meet with denial and something absolutely new will happen after the creation of this new service, the State Security Service, and she will have nothing to refer to? It will not refer to any tradition, because these broadly understood services of state protection against war were also de facto in the process of formation, shaping and thus on a good cause never arose. It was such dismembered service, the first was only after the assassination of President Narutowicz. So that's the problem. Did it even show up? The name itself, the State Security Service, seems pretty unfortunate today, too. It can be associated differently, in the past the SOP were e.g. garden-bee cooperatives, in many places it is associated with this, or savings-borrowing cooperatives, isn't it? The name itself today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't depreciate it, I'm sorry, I don't depreciate that name or that name. I just want to say that now the SOP is also a misleading name, because the state is not just the president, the government, ministers and all high-ranking officials, the state is much more, and we say it is the State Protection Service. I think it's up to 99%. States will not be protected by these services, and she gets that name. Have you considered, however, that it would be worth keeping the name BOR, the Office for Government Protection, which was not so precise either, because this service protected not only the government, but many different institutions? Except sometimes it's more important in the name, not whether it really does give a 100% meaning, but a certain tradition, principles, etc. And at the moment, it's also destroyed by the name of this service. Have you thought about it from this angle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u25	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u26	Mr. Marshal, I will return to Senator Mammoth's statement. Yes, I can only confirm what the senator said, that such declarations have been made, such assurances have been given, but it also follows from some common sense that there will be no major personal changes here. All of you. I'm gonna say it again. Officials and employees of the Government Protection Office shall become employees and officials of the State Protection Service as the Act enters into force. But with this change, there's a mechanism for some sort of verification. The organizational structure will change, tasks will change, you have to be flexible in matching. I remember when we decided I'm sorry I'm gonna leave a little bit about the subject. The National Tax Administration Act, which was closer to me because of my education, was also such incredible accusations, there were fears that almost half or half of all employees of tax offices, somewhere in Jelenia Góra or in any other city, would lose their jobs. And all of a sudden, everyone's still at the KAS because it's hard to be different. Perhaps a few people have changed in management positions. And so will the State Protection Service. Well, it's not gonna be that suddenly, within two months, Chief SOP will be rid of the employees. There are tasks relating to the protection of persons and objects and no one will release them from these tasks. So I wouldn't expect any major personnel movements. He's in the O.R. Boss Bor. I think if it is the will of the senators and your marshal, he will take the floor and such assurances will fall. Because as far as my assurances are concerned, all I can say is what was discussed at the committee meeting. I assure you, I will not be Chief of State Security. As far as Senator Kleina's question is concerned, we haven't really dealt with it at all. That wasn't discussed. Yeah, name's what it is. One's gonna love it, the other's not gonna like it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u27	Only, you know, we admire different countries in the world for the fact that they have long-lasting traditions of different institutions or even names, and in Poland attempts to start from the beginning are still being made. As I said, we have been living in free Poland for almost 30 years. Probably no employee or officer BOR worked there in communist times. Well, I guess so. Someone may have slipped through there, but they probably haven't, because they're moving faster in this job. And after almost 30 years, we're just gonna ruin what's been built for almost 30 years. Well, it's just incomprehensible and sad to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u28	Mr. Senator, I can give you some examples. Well, over the years, since 1990, there have been many changes in names and not only names in various services, because sometimes even different types of structures have changed. After all, we've eliminated the State Security Office. Yes? And it wasn't just the elimination of the name, because counterintelligence and intelligence were also separated. After all, we have eliminated the CSI, with the support of Members and Senators... I don't know if you actually supported it. [[For another reason...]] No, I'm just saying that in the past, names have changed, which, too, you can say, have been fixed for a while. Surely, these boastful traditions of the SOP will be referred to, because there is legal continuity. Well, the banner's probably gonna change, 'cause if the name changes, you're gonna have to put that new name on the banner. I suppose so. [[Stamps...]] Well, the stamps will change, too, but let's not make a problem with the stamps, Mr. Senator. [[But don't bring the CSI into this, 'cause...]] I'm just telling you that there have been a lot of institutions, a lot of services over the 27 years that were first created, and then their names, structure, competences, tasks have been changed. Why does that name change? That's not the question. The subject was not raised at all. Perhaps the Minister will decipher it and reveal who invented it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! During the committee meeting, did you discuss the aspect of extending the scope of the service's powers to operational and cognitive activities? If so, I would ask for information on the committee's position and in what spirit you spoke about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u31	I've told you this before, but I'm gonna say it again. This was raised at the committee meeting by Senator Florek, and the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered that such an extension of the scope of competence to operational and cognitive activities was justified, and recalled the countries in which... Perhaps not: he recalled three countries in which the twin services do not have or declare that they do not have, except that Israel was also among these countries, and we know that there is protection of certain people, however, because I would say so, the specifics of this country are quite extensive. The director of the department had this list and said that, except for three countries, all states declared that their services have such operational and cognitive competence. Well, I don't want to repeat that, but I can explain once again that so far the BOR has carried out preventive measures, and now it has the opportunity to carry out operational and cognitive activities, it will be able to obtain this information itself, collect, collect, process, of course, to a limited extent, only in terms of the protection of individuals. So I'm probably not the one the SOP will be interested in, and if Marshal Borusewicz is a marshal... I'm sure you'll feel safer in protecting the Senate Marshal, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u33	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to bother you... [[There you go.]] ...but I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Because you turned to me... I'm against this bill, and why, I'm gonna say it in speeches so I don't have to discuss it now. I have two questions. Operational activities or obtaining information in an operational manner are envisaged for the acquisition of informants, classified. I have a question about that. Isn't it true that we're gonna get informants too... Is this service, the SOP, going to get informants from the press, or are they excluded from this? And question two, related to the contents of the bill. Art. Point 22 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv)) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) 3 says that these informants cannot be obtained, in fact that is the case, from those who will show in a clear way that they are Why is there a record that indicates that these are the people who have to prove that they have immunity and that this is not their duty in the service? Suppose the judge knew that in his surroundings... Or else, let's say yes. If a parliamentarian, a senator, knows that something bad is going on around him, there are movements, attempts to get informants, or he's the one they're going to try to get, then he has to present in a clear way that he's a parliamentarian? Shouldn't the servants just check the situation in advance? Do you think that's a good record?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u34	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna go back to those two questions. First. Yes, journalists will be able to be informants, there is a certain procedure, there must be the approval of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Well, we don't see any... at least I don't see any reason why journalists should be excluded if the service can get any information from them. But it's just information in this area that's needed for protection. Yes? Journalists, this aspect was mentioned at the committee meeting. As far as your second question is concerned, this has not been discussed in such detail. What's my opinion? Well, you know, if prosecutors, judges, parliamentarians can't be informants, they probably can't, and that's it, they're not gonna be informants. Yes? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u36	Mr. Senator, there's a record here that they have to demonstrate in a way that doesn't raise doubts, etc. So it's up to you and me, not the department. I think that's a bad record.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u37	Mr. Marshal, I find it difficult to answer such a specific question. There's a minister here, I think he'll answer more competently. I think everyone knows that Marshal Borusewicz is a parliamentarian, and according to this bill, an informant of the SOP cannot be. And the SOP service isn't gonna get you as an informant. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'd rather, perhaps... Well, if anyone doesn't know, maybe I'll show him the ID... [[I think that mentioning in this situation, in answer to my question, my name...]] [[As an informant.]] [[...is inappropriate.]] But I didn't mean anything by it, Mr. Marshal. I was just talking in context. [[I understand you didn't mean anything by it, but it was inappropriate, Senator.]] Only, Mr. Marshal... [[I wasn't mentioning your name, I was just talking about senators and MPs, in general.]] I'm gonna name my name... [[Oh, that's right.]] I'm sure Senator Frost won't be an informant of the State Security Service because he's a senator. If anyone turns to me, that's a ban, I can show him I.D., that's all. But in general, I do, because I understand that... I didn't mean anything by it when it comes to you. But let's not be afraid of it either, let's not think that if in a free and democratic country someone is an informant of services, SOP, Internal Security Agency, I don't know, intelligence, counterintelligence or any other agency, it's wrong. In a democratic state of law, anyone, so to speak, has the opportunity to be such an informant, a co-worker. It's not incriminating. And even, I'd say it's glorious in situations like the dangers that are. I understand that your story, the history of a lot of people... I'm referring here to the past in which being an SB informant was incriminating. But we have to break it off. Today in a free and democratic country It doesn't matter who's gonna rule because they're gonna run different parties, different formations. If someone can help Poland by providing information, not informing on someone, but by providing some information that will increase the security of the state, the safety of the highest... Today, there is such a formation, but after all, we write this law for years, they will be different people. So I wouldn't depreciate the situation like that, say the informant. This term informant today, with regard to the vetting, in this whole reference to the Polish People's Republic, is of course something depreciative, but in a democratic country it cannot be depreciating. And it is worth it for the services, in carrying out their tasks under the control of the required legal provisions, to obtain such persons if they can contribute to security. It's a general remark. If Mr. Marshal was touched, I'm sorry, it wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u38	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the service's access to various databases. Couldn't BOR have had access so far? Is there any qualitative change here in the sense that this will be done by law rather than by, I don't know, some sort of customary procedure. I think this is a very important right. And it is right that the service will have this right, because if it is to ensure the safety of the most important people in the country, it must have access to various databases to identify issues related to the threat to this security based on real knowledge. Was there any detailed discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u40	There was no detailed discussion on this subject. I'm sure the State Security Service will have access to the bases. What it looked like with BOR, I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u42	Mr. Senator, do you distinguish between two situations? Every citizen, including us, parliamentarians and journalists, has a duty to inform the relevant authorities when he is informed of the possibility of committing a crime. And that's one situation. And another situation is when such a citizen is recruited as a secret worker, is tasked with, is periodically held meetings with him, is paid for. This is a different situation. Do you distinguish between these situations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u43	Yeah, I can tell. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u44	Since there are no further questions, thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister. [[The question is, right away the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A lot of things have already been raised and clarified by the rapporteur, including on questions, in response to questions. So I'm going to shorten my initial statement because, as I know the customs of the Senate, And I've been getting to know them pretty well lately. I'm sure it'll be some questions for me. First of all, I would like to say that this law, the government's draft law on the State Protection Service, is designed to ensure that this important formation, which is important for the security of the state, strengthen, rebuild, modernise and improve. All the records are getting to that point. The current state of the Government Protection Office can be assessed differently here, too. It has this institution, this service of a whole range of good cards in its work, something to remember This must also be borne in mind when talking about some alleged risks of major staff changes, and I would like to stress this very strongly. But it also has its weaknesses. These weaknesses appeared under different circumstances and were also of interest to the public. Such the worst, most dramatic moment in recent years and in the history of this service was the Smolensk disaster. The Government Protection Office, as we know today, has not fulfilled all its responsibilities. Such situations should never happen, they should never happen again. There have also been many other situations, of minor importance, but they have also been criticized, often unfounded, and often with a certain amount of reasonable doubt. And this is an important aspect that has accompanied work on this law from the beginning. In addition, we, as the government of law and justice, found the government's office in condition How do you say that so as not to arouse great emotions? It's pretty weak, in all sorts of ways. Firstly, in poor condition due to years of underfinancing, underinvestment of this service. The programme of modernisation of the uniformed services, which we are now implementing, the 4-year programme, implemented since 1 January 2017, also includes the Office for the Protection of the Government, which includes not only salary increases, as in all other formations subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but also the purchase of new equipment, equipment, weapons, means of transport, means of protection. This is a program that will certainly strengthen and modernise this service, and this is an important aspect. And it's already being realized, and it's been three more years. We associate with this program in all departments, including the Government Security Office, high expectations. Secondly, there was also, unfortunately, a case neglected over the years related to staff shortages. It has already been mentioned, but maybe I'll call up some numbers, because they'll give a little picture of the state of things, and they'll also answer some doubts about what's already been raining here. We found ourselves in 2015, at the end of this year, assuming responsibility for the state after the parliamentary elections and the establishment of the government, such a state of affairs: in the Office for Government Protection there were about 350... exactly 346 vacancies in terms of the difference between the actual state of employment and the so-called. the limit of the calculation posts, i.e. those charged with financial resources, that is, the real state that should be fulfilled, because that is why the budget gives the funds. I keep telling you about the police. But I can repeat the same with regard to the Government Protection Office, with regard to this formation That vacancies do not provide security. Security is provided by specific people, specific officers. From here, for example. in the case of the police, seeking to reduce the number of vacancies that have been held. And it was held on purpose. After all, we know that they were held on purpose, because these funds were used for other purposes, precisely the funds that were calculated and not used for the employment of officers. We've brought in the number of vacancies in the police. I'm sorry for the digression, but this is also an important comparison. To the lowest level in the last several years. In 2016, that was exactly 2.31%. And that was the smallest number of vacancies. I'm gonna say it again. It's been for a dozen years. That's what we're trying to do at the government security office. The recruitment process over the past two years, for which we are responsible, has been greatly intensified, I mean... And although it is not an easy matter, progress is. At the end of this year, the number of vacancies will be smaller, although the number will still be large and too large... But as far as the difference is concerned, the job will be over 100 less than it was. Two years ago. So the vacancy will not be 346, not about 350, but about 240. We're hoping there'll be 243, but it's still forming, because the year hasn't ended yet. So in two years, we've solved this difficult problem in 1/4... maybe 1/3... or something like that: it's between 1/4 and 1/3. Of course, this will continue under the new law, i.e. the State Protection Service. There was also a growing commitment... And it was, of course, a very painful case for the officers. So if someone insists on it, well, they just have to remember what he was responsible for, not personally, but in the sense of political formation. I am thinking here especially of the 8-year-old government of the PO-PSL coalition. As far as this amount of PLN 370 million is concerned, which in the last months of this year, 2017 was allocated to the payment of liabilities due, this is the repayment of debts after previous governments. Those commitments have been growing for years. That amount shall include the payment of the equivalent for housing due to officers. PLN 370 million due to increased funding from the state budget allocated to this formation And this could have been done thanks to more revenue, because it's all linked to each other, and it makes these commitments in the vast majority of the... Although we hoped that they would be paid in full, because that was the assumption, but now, during the implementation of this commitment, there are new circumstances, so some small commitments may remain, but it will already be a complete remainder, so to speak. Main commitments to officers, to most of them, to almost all But that's right, but I have to emphasize it with caution. They'll be paid. And this is going to be the sum of PLN 370 million. With regard to the overtime that has been mentioned, of course they are also a big problem, because if there are too few officers, and the tasks need to be done, these obligations are necessarily increased in connection with overtime, which compensates for time off from duty. Yeah, but it's hard to compensate when there's no officers in the service. And that's a huge problem. It has been calculated that when we took responsibility for this service under the responsibility of the State, the number of overtime overdue was... Excuse me, I have different numbers here, and I need to think about it for a second... May I present this longer passage to you: due to insufficient staffing, government security officials have worked more than 360 thousand overtime. In 2015 alone it was the number of 253 000 overtime, of which they received 190 000 and 63 000 as if they had passed, in quotes, for the following year. And these are the hours, these 63,000 overtime, counted at 100% rate. for an hour, that's about PLN 1.7 million. This is another commitment, but I repeat, you pay them off sometimes free officers, so there has to be more employment to just settle it. This bill, maybe it's still worth saying, by some of your senators criticized, quite wrongly... I'm asking you to please... I understand the political attitude and attitude of denying everything that the Government of Law and Justice is proposing, but step away from it because it doesn't work, it certainly doesn't do anything in this situation. He's not gonna bring you politically either... After all, the idea is to really strengthen this service, modernise, heal, pay off these commitments, hire new officers to function efficiently, because it protects the most important people in the country, protects the most important objects in the country, protects foreign objects, partially protects foreign sites, protects foreign delegations... So that this service is important, important, I would say, for the nerve of the state, for security, but in such a very important part of it. The Sejm Analysis Bureau, which later reported amendments... Although no, the Office of Sejm Analysis has not tabled any amendments, the Legislative Office has tabled amendments, and the Office of Sejm Analysis of Sejm Chancellery has accepted, I quote that the key regulations of the project do not raise substantive objections Neither the axiological side nor the Juridic perspective. That is, legally and in the direction, as to the substantive, axiological justification, as to the values which the law is supposed to protect and guarantee, the law does not raise objections. I would also like to mention another quote, which reads as follows: "Regulations presented by the Designer." So, the government. The aim declared by the Projector is sufficiently justified by the need to implement it. I quote these legal terms, because I think that they also recall some important context, in order to show that from the legal side the law was well prepared, that is the opinion of the lawyers of the Sejm Analysis Office. I'm gonna go back to the staff thread for a second. I would ask you to take into account such circumstances that these staff shortages unfortunately grew in the years of the governments of our predecessors, e.g. in such a way that 33 officers were killed in 2011 because 85 new officers were accepted, but 118 were released. In 2012, 106 were adopted and 154 were released, and the defect was... [[They're gone?]] Excuse me? [[Are they gone or fired?]] They're gone, but... [[Well, there's a difference.]] ...well, I'm the only one talking about the fact that the call was smaller, I'm showing the weakness of the call right now, the difference, listen up, maybe you won't be so emotional anymore, or at least not so negative. So 48 people on the downside. In 2013, 53 people at a minus, negative balance, 36 accepted, 89 gone, if the senator so prefers, go ahead. In the remaining years it was a little better, because in the years 2014, 2015 already a little on the plus, 58 and 20 people on the plus, but in the face of those negative balances for the previous years it gave the effect that I was talking about, i.e. in 2015 there were 346 vacancies for calculation posts. And now, if there's any other data to recall, because there's another number... [[And in 2016 how much was left or come?]] ...I'll tell you right now, yes... It's right, it's very good that you demand it, Senator, I forgot, and the good news is, it's good that you demand good news... [[Room voice: Good news...]] Yeah, 'cause that's what I was doing to summon, compare, and then I missed it. So thank you for your very valuable help. So it was in 2016 that 134 officers were admitted, which was the largest recruitment of all the years I talked about. And it's gone 69. Positive balance: 65. [[Very good, then.]] Very well, Senator, very well. Of course, we'd like it to be even better, but it's good, it's much better. In 2017, this has not yet ended, because this recruitment process is still ongoing, but these are the last days. I have the data for November 20th. This isn't the final data yet. Here we have a balance sheet that has been adopted 155, which is even more than in 2016, but has passed 147. I'm sure it has something to do with this. At least that's how I feel about it. With a discussion on the changes to the law. There's always some concern about what's new. For the sake of clarity, people with pension rights are leaving in the vast majority. It's not like they're changing servants, they're going to retire. And it's hard to prevent it, because they just have powers. But the balance is still positive, though small, because 8 people on 20 November. I hope it gets a little better by the end of the year. Except it's such a difficult year. But it's still not negative. If we were to compare it to another limit, because there was still a limit set at the beginning, in 2001, when the Government Security Bureau was set up... And here, Mr. Senator. I think Senator Klein was talking about it. As far as tradition is concerned, this tradition of the Office of Government Protection is 16 years old, in this formula, under the rule of this law. It's not like decades, it's a long tradition. Well, 16 years can be judged differently long, little. Just 16 years old. [[But something needs to be built.]] I will return to this tradition in a moment, because it is even deeper, but already in another dimension. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, So, in creating this service, it's been established that the government's office is going to have a much higher number of jobs. I didn't write down exactly how much Approximately 3,000... 2,000 904 jobs. I didn't give those numbers. In 2015, the Council And let's take this year, there were 1,894 officers. Let me remind you of this limit: 2,000 904. It was assumed that so many officers would be needed in this service. The time limit for calculating jobs was 2,000. 224, financial resources were charged for this and the state of employment was 1 thousand 894. I gave these 346 jobs the difference compared to the calculation posts, but in relation to this limit, the larger one, i.e. the one assumed at the outset that it should be, the difference was over 1 thousand. [[Now what's the status?]] [[Wait a minute. We haven't gotten to the questions yet.]] Good. I'm actually gonna finish this thread, but I'm just gonna bring up some more numbers. On the 20th of November, because for this date I have data, it was 1 thousand 967 people, this difference of increase that I was talking about here gives this result. The number of vacancies is less than two years ago by about 100, but more than 200 jobs are still to be filled. With regard to the number of vacancies counted to this large limit, this output, please note that e.g. in 2005 I will reach further In view of this upper limit, which I repeat once again, there were 443 vacancies, in 2006 538, in 2007 501. And then it got bigger: in 2008 927, a big jump... Well, you can see whose government it was, by the way. Then, in 2010, 1040... Aha, 2009 again, 996 in 2010 and 1040 in 2010 and 1164, in 2012 and 1212, in 2013 and 1039, here a little less, 2014 and 1009, 2015 in 1010, and then in 2016 945, this number is falling again. As far as 2017 is concerned, we will see where it ends, here are the last figures to be counted. That's the thing about staffing, his history, and the financial situation, I said a little bit about it. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as tradition is concerned, this case has already been raised in my speech, but there have been questions, so... with tradition, it's like this. 12 June shall be established as a holiday for the State Protection Service, that is to say in Article. 7th Bill. Today it is a celebration of the Office of Government Protection, so even in this symbolic dimension the tradition is taken over. One might ask: what date is this June 12th? This is the day of the establishment of the First Security Service in 1924 after the assassination of President Narutowicz, in the interwar period, it commemorates the Security Brigade established on 12 June 1924 whose task was to protect the President of the Republic of Poland. As I said, the decision to create it was made after the tragic assassination of President Gabriel Narutowicz, then acting. So there's this element of tradition reference. In another place, in the article. 66 of the Act, also referred to tradition: State Protection Service... I'm sorry, not in the article. 66, this is another case... [[Deputy Director of the Public Order Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Cichomski: Art. 346.]] Yeah, in the article. 346, that's another note I took for myself... Yes? I don't think... [[Deputy Director of the Public Order Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Cichomski: Art. 346.]] No, Mr. Director, this is not the article. [[Deputy Director of the Public Order Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Cichomski: Art. 349, I'm sorry.]] Art. 349, yes, that's right. Here is the tradition of the Dispatch Branch of the Warsaw National Army. This tradition has been taken over by the Office for Government Protection, and this article says that this tradition adopted by the BOR is becoming a tradition of the State Protection Service. Ladies and gentlemen, the SOP will take over the good traditions of the Government Protection Office, the bad traditions will not take over, it is quite obvious, it will not take over especially bad practices. He will certainly not take over such practices, that for failure to fulfil his duties, he will meet the Heads of Service with promotions. I'm sure he won't take over, but there's no doubt about it. There were questions about the name here. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government Protection Office has been operating in this form for 16 years since 2001. Previously, this name also appeared, but in the case of Military Unit No.1004, it was Military Unit No.1004. This is one of the traditions of this Office of Government Protection, which was established in 2001. The second formation on the basis of which the Office of Government Protection was created, apart from this unit, were the Vistula Military Units. In any case, in the Government Protection Office Act, a number of solutions have been transferred from the military sphere, and that too needs to be changed now, because these are non-functional regulations. The office of Government Protection is undoubtedly a name for narrow, because it does not only protect government representatives, it also protects representatives of foreign delegations, the President of the Republic, the Marshals of the Sejm, the Senate and objects serving not only the government but also the President. Even if that is the reason why this name should be changed. I'm sorry to say this, sir, but Senator Kleina's gotten a little mixed up in his background because he spoke too narrowly, too wide. The current name is just too narrow, and that's what we proposed, and that's... [[He's tangled up.]] [[Too wide.]] ...doesn't protect the whole country... Well, it doesn't protect the whole state, but of course the bill defines its tasks. They concern not only the government but also other parts of the state, therefore it is more appropriate than the Government Protection Office. Has anyone attached themselves to the old name: the Government Protection Office? Probably. It's probably at least a sounding name and maybe a lot of people identify with it. But she's real. I'm telling you again. Inappropriate. And when it comes to whether she's the happiest, the best, the best, the best, of course, you can always discuss it. At the meeting... But no one's come up with a better one. We gave the opposition a chance... Well, that's what we've created. It seems that it is correct, above all appropriate to the tasks This is the most important thing. At the meeting of the subcommittee, Mr Marek Biernacki, former Minister of the Interior, also asked for this name to be different. I have proposed, with great openness to the government, that the Member give a different name and that we may consider it, we will be very open. I declared my openness. He didn't offer. And no one else has made any amendments to this matter. Even in such a loose discussion, no one else's name Better or supposedly better or subjectively better He didn't offer. Therefore, I would ask you not to discuss the name... She was simply accepted by the Sejm. I ask the High Senate to accept the name and the entire bill. There were questions about operational operations. It's just that you're kind of busy, and it's kind of the Civic Platform that's taking a lot of time. In the Seym I spoke more strongly about it, and in the Senate 'Cause it's a softer house. I'm not gonna talk about it that much. I am just pointing out that it is indeed interesting to be interested in the alleged risks involved. These are not threats, they are just the necessary instruments to carry out tasks to make it safe. Today, the Office of Government Protection has the right and obligation to carry out preventive activities. This is basically a sphere quite close to operational activities, but the privileges to perform the operations of the BOR are not. The State Protection Service will have them to the extent defined in the Act to the extent necessary. This is certainly an important instrument, because the State Protection Service will not have to ask other services to perform certain activities in the context of even this prevention, if only to remain so. This always extends the way, it always requires not only legal, legal, but also practical correlation of service activities. And it's always harder. The service, which is responsible for the safety of the most important persons in the country and foreign delegations, must, in my opinion, have the same powers to recognise the risks for protected persons. Identify and identify threats, respond to threats and, above all, eliminate them. He must have knowledge of these threats. If she doesn't know, she'll always be disabled. When he has to ask other servants, waiting for an answer, there's always a delay, there's always a problem in these contacts. This service, to the extent necessary to protect protected persons, must have the necessary instruments. And these powers, which we equip the State Protection Service with, belong to these instruments. Maybe to calm the senators a little bit... for now, senators, because that's what you've been saying, maybe I'll bring it up for context. I think it's important; in the Seym, it's kind of impressive, so maybe he'll do it in the Senate. Which countries have services that are specifically entitled to operational and research activities. So there are similar security services, for example. Australia, Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Estonia, Slovakia, Romania, Germany I dedicate this to the Senators of the Civic Platform, i.e. Germany... [[A very good example.]] Good examples are worth using, of course. Besides, in the Netherlands, Georgia, Hungary... [[And Putin's gone.]] We're not looking that way, Senator. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Calm down, please. And the Minister, I ask you not to respond to any problems.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, this is difficult. [[I know, I know, I know.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is cool, we like him.]] It's hard. If I wasn't a parliamentarian, maybe I'd be doing things differently, and that's the way it is, of course, that's the interaction. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a question of the right-hand side of the room. The question is whether former PRL officials or secret co-workers will not be able to be employed in the State Protection Service. This case is... I don't know, maybe it wasn't just the right-hand side of the question. Of course, it's a regulation in the bill and... Mr. Director, I'd like a hint, which are the articles, because I can't remember at the rehearsals... [[But we do.]] [[We believe because it's...]] But I'd like to quote because... [[We'll take your word for it.]] But that sounds good... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Director of the Public Order Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Cichomski: Art. 68.]] How much? [[Deputy Director of the Public Order Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Cichomski: Art. 68.]] Art. 68, yes. Art. 68 is about the service, and then there's another article that's about the chief. Well, a person can serve in the State Protection Service That's what art says. 68, with only Polish citizenship, a good reputation... I'm not gonna read the whole article because it's pretty long... But it's about a person, among other things. one which gives the guarantee of secrecy in accordance with the requirements laid down in the provisions on the protection of classified information, and That's what this is all about. Who didn't work, work or work as a collaborator... [[Good.]] ...the security authorities of the States referred to in Article. 2 of the Act of 18 October 2006 on disclosure of the documents of the State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of those documents. So, Mr. Senator, they won't be able to... [[So physically it would be possible, they could work...]] Today, Mr. Senator, it's hard to rule out, because today there are no such rules. But they will, now they will. And in this context, it can be said that this law also has such a illustrative aspect, please, we can define it that way. So they won't be able to ex-officers and secret co-workers to work in this service, because after all, And I think it's pretty obvious. This should not be the case in free Poland, after 28 years of regaining independence. I will no longer quote another article that concerns the chief of this service, the chief, but he is also, of course, this solution in a separate provision covered. Maybe one last thing, because this is Mr. Senator Marshal Borusewicz. He's talking on the phone now, but he's done... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...he was just asking about... But not only did you, Mr. Senator, not only did you marshal, other gentlemen, ask about journalists' cases and what it looks like, when it comes to the use of help, of personal sources of information. So I'm going to quote this longer argument here, because the questions are coming up, they're coming up in the Seym, and they're coming up in the Senate. Well, the information about... It's included in the article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 act, draft law: it is possible for the Chief of State Protection to agree, after obtaining the consent of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, to use secret cooperation with broadcasters within the meaning of the Act on Radio and Television, with editors-in-chief, journalists or publishing persons, if this is justified for reasons of security of protected persons or objects Because this article kind of regulates it. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on Government Protection currently in force It's an art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the present, I repeat, the Act of the Government Protection Office in the performance of its tasks in particularly justified cases may benefit from the assistance of non-officers. This provision does not contain any restrictions on the categories of persons from whom the BOR may be assisted. This cooperation shall be confidential, it shall be prohibited to disclose data on persons providing assistance to the Government Protection Office, with the exception of the prosecutor's request for criminal offences. Similar solutions are in force in the police Only with this remark that today the BOR has no powers for operational and exploratory activities, and the police have, in accordance with Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 Police Act and the Border Guard, which also has such powers, in accordance with Article. Article 9b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 1st Border Guard Act. On the other hand, when it comes to special services, there is an analogy here in the discussions that the Prime Minister is here and the Minister of Home Affairs is here to give his consent. In their case, the legislator introduced a catalogue of persons for whom the use of the so-called. In principle, secret cooperation is not permitted. However, for all these services, consent was allowed to cooperate with broadcasters, editors, journalists or publishers, where this is justified on grounds of state security. Except that, in so far as this consent is generally given by the Heads of Service with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, in the event that the Minister of the Coordinator is appointed... In the time of the PO-PSL there was no minister of coordinator for a long time, so maybe this results in a confusing association. That's when the Prime Minister gave his consent because there was no minister of the coordinator. But in the event that the minister of the coordinator is appointed Only the Minister's consent is required. And it will be the same here: the approval of the Minister supervising this service, the State Protection Service, or the Minister of Home Affairs, will be required. Thus, in this case, it is also a member of the Council of Ministers responsible for the supervision of special services, as is the case with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. In view of the fact that the State Protection Service will not be a special service... That, too, I would like to stress very strongly at once, because some people confuse these qualifications of different institutions. This isn't a special service, this is a protective service, if any, it's more police than a special service. Therefore, it is not possible to apply the analogue solution to the solution used in the case of special services. Taking into account the supervision exercised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, he was entrusted with granting consent to the approval of the SOP commandant to cooperate secretly with the above mentioned circle of people connected with the widely understood journalistic and publishing activities. It should also be stressed that the Law on the State Protection Service is in this respect, because of the restrictions imposed on persons with whom it is possible to enter into secret cooperation, much more restrictive than the current Act on the Government Protection Office or solutions that have been in place for years in the Police and Border Guard. I would like to ask the senators to accept these explanations, because this case is coming back, in my opinion, unnecessarily, completely unnecessary, because it is all regulated with great care. As for the Members, the Senators, Mr Borusewicz again spoke about it, this is what he asked. Please distinguish between two different spheres. One shall be governed by Article. 21 of the Act and the second of the Act in Art. 66. As far as the article is concerned. 21 and those points cited in the discussion, or at least... what you said to the senator refers to these points, so maybe I would say, art. 21 points 3, 4 and 5... [[Art. 22.]] So long, Art. 21, because we have to get out of this, from Art. 21: The official shall perform the tasks referred to in paragraph 21. Three, he has the right... And here, among other things.: to carry out personal checks, to carry out security checks on persons entering the premises, to include persons presenting a direct threat. And then art. 22: The officer shall not exercise the powers referred to in Article. 21, paragraph 3, paragraph 5, just referred to And that's the third paragraph and the third paragraph. The Commission shall adopt the measures referred to in paragraph 3 and shall adopt the measures referred to in paragraph 3. 2 to the persons referred to in paragraph 2. Points 1 and 2 shall be notified immediately to the office serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. It's about representatives of diplomatic personnel. I'm a little bit out of it here, but art. 66... no, I'm sorry, I've already discussed this case. It's just... I'm sorry, I don't want to spend too much time here looking for records, but the point is, if an officer has an e.g. To identify a person, he doesn't know if he's the person who has immunity or not. Because if the senator says you're a senator, which means you have immunity, then the rules will be applied. It's just that an officer might not know the person. And as a result, it is probably obvious that such identification can be expected, each of us can be in such a situation. But as far as personal sources of information are concerned, this applies only to those categories of people I was talking about, namely journalists, in general. And so it's regulated, who gives consent... This, of course, does not apply to e.g. Members and Senators. It is clear here that such assistance cannot be used in this mode. [[Question...]] I guess that's enough for me not to take up any more of your time with what I think needs to be explained in relation to the questions that have been raised. If there are other questions, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u46	This concludes the Minister's speech and we move on to questions. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski... He's not here. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u47	Thank you, Minister, it's rare for organs to speak and people to listen. Usually organs don't talk, and people have to talk. [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Who is the organ and who is the people?]] Organs are organs. I have two questions... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Organs also people.]] Yes. Minister, you're talking about staff shortages. But there are also thousands of staff shortages in police and other services, not necessarily uniformed. Don't you think these deficiencies are not due to bad conditions? Because this is where the government of PiS takes care of social and other conditions. Just because power manifests itself... and uses services to fight politically? For example, the police that are standing here... and surveillance by the Secret Service. And the question that goes along with it is how many BOR's are in Parliament? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Sorry, again...]] How many BOR's are in Parliament? [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] Well, that's it for now, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u48	Are you sure this question concerns the bill we are discussing? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Yeah, because I've already asked what institutions and individuals are outside of what's in the bill, and the Ministry has confirmed that there are such cases, persons and institutions]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u49	Mr. Senator... [[Wouldn't you like protection, Mr. Marshal, from the BOR?]] ...I think it's very, very wrong for you to recognize the situation when it comes to staffing... [[That question was.]] So I answer. ...Services and possible causes of certain deficiencies. I told you. But it seems that you haven't considered it, and it's a shame that you're working with the police, and you've also called the police... [[5,000...]] The number of vacancies at the end of 2016 [[The voice from the room: But you can see that...]] So it's not bad, on the contrary: it's much better than it was when it comes to fulfilling the working time limit. It is not enough that Parliament, when calculating the financial resources for 2014 in the Budget Act, paid 1 000 police posts previously received under the PO-PSL regime. Police office was 103,000 309. Previously, under the PO-PSL regime, 1 grand, so to speak, was cut off, and this number was reduced. [[Voice from the room: Because there was a level...]] Since 2014, this old number of 103,000 309 has returned. Before that, there were 102,000 309. And here too, do not overinterpret that we need more police. No. We returned to the state before that time when the PO-PSL coalition reduced the number of jobs by 1,000. I'm gonna say it again, because apparently you have to repeat it five times, since 2 or 3 isn't enough, that the state of office in the police is better than in the last dozen years, 15 or so. The percentage of vacancies was 2,31% at the end of 2016. At the Office for Government Protection, which we are discussing today, because the Law on the Protection of the State concerns this formation, we have reduced by 100 the number of vacancies in relation to the number of vacancies from that time when the Civic Platform and the PSL gave us responsibility for the state after we won and the parliamentary elections you lost. So I don't think it's right to conclude that something bad is happening, that there are no volunteers, because supposedly the service works so that it discourages potential candidates for them. No. These figures show that it is the opposite. But the worst words here are that the cops are on the street, for example. At the Seym, and it should be different. Well, gentlemen senators, if you want someone and you favor it. To undermine democracy, undermine the outcome of parliamentary elections by street and abroad, demonstrations, the occupation of the Seym's Speaker... [[The Minister is provoking...]] If you want to deny the essence of democracy in this way, then you must act. What would that mean otherwise? That someone wins the election and creates a government, and someone who's unhappy about it because he lost and he can't deal with it, he's throwing knocks on the street, and the state is helpless. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this can't be right. If the state is to function, and this democratic state, it must defend these democratic rules. And everything about it. As far as the Sejm and the Senate are concerned, the Marszałkowska Guard is responsible for the protection of these facilities, not the Office for Government Protection, although to some extent, in the field of radio-pyrotechnical diagnosis, the Office for Government Protection is responsible for identifying such threats. And until there is a new law on the Marshal's Guard She's in the middle of parliamentary work. That's the way it's gonna stay. As soon as the new Marshal's Guard Act is in place, the entire chapter in this law concerning the Marshal's Guard will be abolished by that law. So that consistency will be maintained. So the officials of the Government Protection Office in the Sejm and the Senate have no tasks to perform. Well, except that Let's remember, e.g. Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate are subject by law to the protection of the Office of Government Protection. [[And the other people...]] That's it, Mr. Senator. [[The envelopes, the letters...]] I think I answered the senator's questions. I think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think I was quite specific about the tradition and the question of the name. Well, you said so gently that I was lost in this matter. It's possible some things were a little different than you'd expect... But it doesn't matter. I am attached to the name of the Government Protection Office. It seems to me, however, that the names of the State Protection Service and the Government Protection Office are not quite precise, and you also admitted it. Maybe my attachment to the name of the Government Protection Office is also due to the fact that in 2001 I voted on the Government Protection Office Act and I am somehow attached to it. But let's leave it at that, because, as I understand it, the decided majority of parliament, and the Sejm, and the Senate, probably wants that name to be changed. I'm rather attached as a conservative to old things, but here I see revolutionaries changing everything... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Hopefully not too old.]] ...and every time they start over, so... well, that's a life. I would like to ask the Minister about the number of officers, because the 2001 Act provided that these workers or officers in the Government Security Office would be 2 000 900. That number has never been reached. Yeah, well, it was pretty far from that level of employment. How many do you expect? Will there be officers in the State Security Service? What are your goals here? By the way, this smaller number of employees also influenced that you could give higher salaries, etc., but this is kind of another issue, we're not going back to the past. How many officers do you expect from the State Security Service?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u52	Approximately as many as was assumed in 2001, and this is recorded in the impact assessment. [[So it's going to be 2,000 900...]] Yeah, about $3,000 at the end of the day. [[So we planned it well then.]] I don't know how to answer that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, the tasks of the State Security Service are going to change a little bit, the scope of the task will change a little bit... [[It'll be wider.]] ...especially when it comes to protecting public buildings... [[It's not enough...]] ...because we do not want the state facilities in which the main tasks of the state authorities are performed to be protected by private security companies, often of all the proventies known to us. [[Okay, okay.]] Indeed, this staff limit has never been fulfilled during these 16 years, unfortunately, this is true, I have seen the exact numbers, so in this sense you could say that you maybe planned well, then, in 2001, perhaps well. [[The Minister was an MP at the time.]] No, I've been in the Seym since 2003. But it is also a question of comparing the working limit to the scope of the tasks. We have now calculated this very carefully in terms of staffing needs in order to fulfil the tasks that the State Protection Service will have to perform. Even though the number of overtime, I'm going to go back to it again, which I recalled, shows that the officers were not enough. These tasks have not been performed... Although in a way, well, according to the regulations, but not entirely hygienic, I would say, from the employee's point of view these sentences were carried out. Because if someone works more and has the right to pay back these worked overtime in the form of leisure time, they should receive it, it should be compensated for. It is as if the mutual commitment of the parties with a service relationship in this case, not work, and this should bind both parties. This was not possible due to the lack of officers. Well, the fact that state facilities were given to protect security companies can be interpreted differently. Perhaps on the one hand, that there were staff shortages here, so it could not be managed, but on the other hand, at least in the governments that have taken place in Poland for the last 8 years, private companies were encouraged, so that... After all, I know certain statements, we all know them, from discussions on this subject and they left no doubt that this is the direction of thinking with which neither I have ever agreed, nor my formation, Law and Justice, so now we are trying to sort it out and regulate it differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, during the senators' questions to the Minister, there are still two issues in principle: the issue of staff shortages and, in fact, related to what you mentioned earlier, the question of years, so to speak, underfinancing, not only BOR, but also other services. The Minister cuts it off, points out that this is not a special service, but the competences of this service will be quite broad. Therefore, I have a question about this underfinancing. How will the SOP encourage candidates to volunteer? I would like to extend this question a little bit, because I know that, by the way, the Minister himself, when discussing the bill, indicated that there were certain flows between the various services, i.e. police officers, so to speak, have been fed by the BOR, also by other service officers, professional soldiers too, so to speak, were shifted, of course, those who met the criteria. I have a question: what are the salaries involved if the Minister can, of course, tell us, in comparison with the salaries, generally speaking, of other uniformed services? What are the salaries of the SOP, and what are they of the BOR now? What will be the real increase in the wages of former BOR officers in relation to those who will be after the amendment of the law and the transformation of these services into SOP? Because these staff shortages-- vacant vacancies-- let's not talk about staff shortages-- These vacant vacancies are both in the police and the vacant vacancies will be in the SOP, because up to 3,000 vacancies are still missing 1 000. I'd like to ask... Oh, one more thing. I asked a question about the 2018 budget at one of the committee meetings last week. I received a reply from the MSWiA representative that next year there will be increases for uniformed services, widely understood uniform services. And that's the amount, if I remember correctly, about 150 million. This amount shall be entered in the budget. I would like the Minister to possibly refer to what it will look like next year, which is what it will look like when it comes to SOP compared to other formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u55	First of all, I would like to say that the bill regulates an issue which has so far made it very difficult to shape human resources policy in the BOR. Namely BOR was a closed formation. You couldn't go from another service to the BOR, except for the way it's available to everyone, which is out of the loop. It's gonna be different now. It will be so that between the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, it will be possible to be transferred, and it will, of course, be possible to go through with consent. So far, it was possible to move from BOR to another service, but from another service to BOR there was no longer any transition. It was a very hermetic service. And it really made it harder to fill in the staff shortages, especially about the specialists that this service needs. This is an important issue, a really very important issue. After 2 years, since I supervise the Office for Government Protection, I see that if this issue were otherwise regulated, a number of important problems could be solved precisely in such a way that interested persons could strengthen this service without any particular prejudice as regards other services, e.g. Police. The police are a large, hundred thousandth formation, so if several, several or several dozen people went to the Government Protection Office, it probably wouldn't even be a big problem, and for the BOR it would be a big reinforcement. With regard to salaries, pay and all service conditions at all, the establishment of the management of the department is such that all services under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration are treated equally in order to ensure a similar level of care, of course taking into account the specificities of these services. That's the way it is now about the raises. If we speak e.g. about the programme to modernise uniform services, so the increases are the same in terms of the average rate of calculation per job. Of course, the way these increases are implemented is a separate issue, because this is agreed with trade unions, etc. But there is, for example. an increase of PLN 253 per officer and an average of PLN 250 per employee... I will not say that a civilian worker, because recently after the conference at the centre of social dialogue we thought that here we should not really talk about civilian workers, because it may be a little confusing, it may be confused with the civil service. So there are officers and there are employees. So that in the case of increases for employees is the same, i.e. the average is PLN 250 per job. And it looks the same in all the services. So that we all treat the same: and the officers of the BOR, and the police, and the firemen, and the officers of the Border Guard. This Act provides for 2 allowances. These are, of course, essential additions. They will be differentiated according to the tasks and the way in which they are performed, and how difficult the service will be. The Act provides for 2 allowances: one supplement of up to 50% And a second allowance for these special conditions of service of up to 20%... up to 20%, right? Yeah, up to 20%. So these 2 allowances together, if you combine them in a particular case, in the case, let's say, the most difficult conditions and the best service, give the boss, and in the future the commander 'Cause it's gonna be a commandant, a central government administration. It's really a lot of possibilities. It is also worth remembering that the Act strengthens the position of the head of this service, making it, as in the case of the Chief of Police, Border Guard or State Fire Department, the central body of government administration. He will have the opportunity to have these additions, so in his hands there will be important motivational instruments. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Pulling this reward thread... Of course, I'm not asking for details, because it's a thing that should be kept secret, but, Minister, please tell me... I'm not talking about executive positions, but tell me how many people working today at the BOR or later at the SOP. 'Cause I understand there's not going to be a revolution right away when it comes to wages. How much such a good officer makes today at BOR. That's the first question. And the other, Minister, or... Because you say about PLN 253 will be there. In the opinion of the Minister... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: No, it was.]] Oh, it was. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: PLN 253 was on average a full-time job and from 1 January 2019 there will be another increase. Together it will give 609 PLN per job...]] In the last two years... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: During the four years of the modernisation programme.]] Uh-huh. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Of course, the question was a little wider... Sorry, I'll see about that.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u58	In 2019 this will be a slightly larger increase than the first one. How much is it going to be on average on the basis of the calculation... 609 zł total, if I remember, means 609 zł minus 253 zł will give the second increase. On average, it's a job... Did I remember correctly? Yeah, I guess so. If you're questioning me here without notes, I may have some problems with accuracy, but I think that's how it is. So this raise is going to be the difference between one and the other amount given. Together, this will result in a significant percentage and a quantitative increase in salaries. Plus... This was not anticipated before, because it is a modernisation programme, i.e. 2 increases, from 1 January 2017 and from 1 January 2019. In addition, as of 1 May, the underprivileged officers will receive an increase in salaries, in the lowest groups, let's call it, salaries, and that's what these funds of PLN 150 million are allocated to in the Budget Act... still in the draft Budget Act for 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal, right now I would like to ask you a supplementary question because the Minister has answered, and now I have a question. Minister, if we count him, he's a good officer, 70%. Plus, all those... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: This is the highest...]] Yeah, yeah, that's what we're talking about. So how much can an officer make in this service? Why do I ask, Minister? Because in my opinion... The Minister says there will be 3,000 officers, of course, at a certain time. One of the main factors determining the willingness to work in this service will be the amount of wages, let us not hide. Conditions are also important, very important, but pay will be the main element. So answer the question of how much this officer gets... More or less, I'm not talking about accuracy, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u60	Well, I'm not gonna give you those numbers, because it depends on the individual grade of every officer, every officer, so you can't question me, because everyone has a different classification... I don't know, we can use the average wage category... [[Oh!]] ...but then it concerns and covers everyone, and the highest earners, and those... [[Lowest.]] ...who are starting to serve, and in... [[Minister, I'm sorry, I'll just remind you...]] Yes? [[...that you can always answer the question in writing, so you can...]] [[No problem.]] Yeah, I was just trying to react right away... Always, and in the draft budget law for each year, and in the report on the implementation of the budget law for the previous year, these average amounts appear, there is the number of posts calculated, there is an average salary. In the case of the Office of Government Protection, these are similar sizes... In other services, this average, as I recall, is 4,000... a little more than 4,000 zlotys, but it's not like. 4.5,000, that's maybe 4,000 200 zlotys, if I can recall it from my memory, that's such a big one. But that's the average. I may be wrong about those amounts over 4,000, but that's the size of it. Only, Mr. Senator, but please pay attention to the fact that... because you're sitting on this side of the room where you're sitting, so I have to comment on how much you care... Well, it's a good thing you cared, but you had to take care of yourself for the last eight years. There were no raises then, and now there are. One increase, from the Modernization Act, has already been implemented since 1 January, and the second increase will be realized for a year, from 1 January 2019. And the third increase, completely unforeseen, possible precisely thanks to the increased revenue of the budget, which is also thanks to the Law and Justice policy, our government, is going to be this increase from May 1 for the lowest paid officers. It is precisely about raising their wages and encouraging, nothing to hide, others who come to the service. [[Thank you very much...]] So that, however, please consider the circumstances that I am talking about, which is also the place where you are sitting in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal... [[...only in the debate, Minister.]] Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I thought I wasn't gonna hear about the eight previous years... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: You will hear.]] ...but the Minister says the same thing. But, Minister, it's only been six years, because you two are in charge. Well, then tell me exactly... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: We haven't cut off these two years since the 8th...]] [[Mr. Marshal, ask me a question. Ask me a question.]] Let me ask you a question. I had to refer to this... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Well, from these 2 years you have the effects and effects of...]] ...the wording, Minister. Well, you have to be precise in these terms. [[2:8.]] I'm gonna... Well, 2:8 is 1/4, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Well, and the effects are greater...]] [[Gentlemen, I ask you to refrain from these discussions between yourselves...]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Well, but the results are bigger than those of 8 years...]] [[Minister...]] Let me ask you a question. [[Please, Mr. Marshal.]] First of all, is there still this indicator factor for service and military wages, or are you out of it? Let's say... The intelligence had the highest rate by which it was calculated, etc., then counterintelligence, which is ABW... This is the first question: does this indicator conversion still apply? Secondly, what about the overtime and housing allowances of those who leave? Are you gonna pay it or not? Well, apartments... The housing allowance is fixed, but in the case of overtime there was a rule that they are collected, the day off is taken. If anyone ceases to serve in this new formation, the new BOR, he will no longer take away his days off. That's why it's a question. [[Okay, thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] One more question. One more question... [[There you go. You're welcome, but yes...]] ...so historic. When did BOR have operational control and when did he lose it? At what times? BOR had operational control, he had control. When did he have that surgical control, and when did he lose it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u63	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u64	Mr. Senator, of course we'd have to talk about the whole story here about the roots of the BOR. I've already mentioned her a little bit. It has been since 1956, but this is not the subject of this law. So, if you're very interested in this, we can put this historical statement in writing, go ahead. So, as far as this indicator conversion is concerned, or, I don't know, the way we charge salaries... If I understand you correctly, I think so, I think I can confirm: yes, there are these percentages. If that's what you're asking, I can confirm it in general. It is preserved in all services, it is normal. In the context of budgetary laws and reports on the implementation of budgetary laws, all this is always invoked. The easiest thing to do is to reach out to these documents, because it's a little different in the various departments, not much, but it's a little different. On the other hand, I can answer these questions concerning the powers that officers have, in the shortest possible way, so that all rights acquired will, of course, be fulfilled. And that applies to those officers who are in the BOR today and who are going to the State Security Service, and those who are leaving today or who are going to retire from this service, for example. as a result of the fact that they will not receive a proposal for further service. I would like to remind you that the law requires the Chief of the Central Security Service to propose within 2 months or not to offer further service to the officers, and then the officers have 3 months to decide. So together it's five months, a quiet period, quite long, with the same three-month period for everyone in terms of deciding whether or not to just quit the service. I want to answer right away, too. 'Cause what's the point of asking questions? Maybe it's a waste of time. For your doubts about what you called human resources purges, anticipated human resources purges. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that this important service must be based on the fullest possible employment. No one responsible will lead to the situation, so that they do not give a proposal to the officers who are needed to carry out their duties, all the more so that with the call, as you can see, despite great efforts Even though there's progress, it's better. However, there are still problems. Well, these are, at least, problems with the fact that not all of the applicants meet the conditions, and also the number of people willing to take account of recent years has slightly decreased as a result of the obvious context of the labour market. Because unemployment is the lowest in 27 or 28 years, which, in short, also affects the number of people interested in job offers in services. However, the situation is still that there are more people who are willing to go to each place than there are places, i.e. a few who are willing to go to one place is always there. By the way, last year it's improved a little bit, there's more interest. And that may be the answer for Senator Rulewski, who went out and who claimed that maybe there is a bad image of the services, the police, etc., because they are doing their job towards the democratic state. No, it is quite the opposite, in the last year, as I said, it is just a bit better. However, when you look at the last period, let's say 10 years, you're sure to see a drop in the number of people in one place in each service, and that's because of the labour market, which is better now. Because, as I say, the labour market has improved, unemployment is exceptionally low, the lowest, I will remind you, for 28 years, since our country regained its independence. So, don't be afraid of these situations, but this instrument... By the way, it is somewhat modelled on the resolution of the Act on the City of Warsaw. We didn't make this bill, but I had the opportunity or opportunity to implement it as the mayor of downtown, because that's when this law began to work. And it was there that the solution was that if, during the period laid down by law, someone had not received a proposal for employment under certain conditions, the contract of employment expired. And that's what's gonna happen here, i.e. The contract, the service ratio will expire. This is an instrument introduced to facilitate reorganisation. But we are responsible for this service, Mr Senator, as the government, as the management of the Ministry, as a political group that has won the elections and has to carry out its tasks through good government action, so we will certainly carry out this reorganisation in a responsible manner, and this instrument will facilitate some steps in this reorganisation, some steps that could be difficult without it. The structure of the BOR today is very unfunctional. There's a lot of executive positions for a small service, there's a lot of boards in verticals. This has to change because it's not functional. Thus, it may happen that someone will not receive a service proposal so far, in the same place, may receive an offer of service in another and may accept it, or may not accept it, because the conditions may change. But I certainly want to assure you that, because maybe they listen to us or will replay this conversation with the officials of the Government Protection Office or their families, I can assure you that for all who work well, for all who want to continue to work, serve Poland, serve in a protective formation, there will be a place in the State Protection Service. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u65	There you go... [[Voice from the hall: I'm sure...]] Senator Grabowski, please. He's asking a question. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] Are they still there? I'm so sorry. Any questions? [[Minister, I...]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. Does anyone else come forward for questions? No. You're welcome. [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Ah, Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u66	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, now my question about... I'd like the Minister to confirm, deny, possibly expand the subject. In one of the press materials I found information that candidates for SOP will be subjected to a polygraph. And I would like to know, Minister, for what reason will they be examined with this polygraph, what is the purpose of such research and whether possibly in other services, such as. ABW or UOP, such procedures apply during recruitment as well. I'd like to hear a few words about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about surgical and cognitive activities. According to art. 42 of this law can only be implemented as a last resort and as a result of criminal prosecution. But the State Security Service, like the BOR, will have a primary task, I would call it preventive. Can these activities also be used in such a wide range of preventive activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u69	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u70	As far as polygraphs are concerned, yes, they are envisaged and will be an instrument for verifying candidates for service. It may also be an instrument that will serve, in justified cases, the verification of those already in service. This is not a new solution, the polygraph is used e.g. From among the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of the Border Guard. But the details of what will be examined in the course of this procedure, I am unable to tell you anything else, because these are specific issues, that are determined by professionals in this field and all of this is duly approved. So that I am not able to describe this tool in detail here for obvious reasons. The senator asked about... I don't have a record here... [[Surgery and diagnostics...]] Oh, yeah. [[...but not just about crimes.]] Operational and cognitive activities are defined in the Act. I don't want to talk too much about it, maybe I'll just send it to the articles, because the senator is always very familiar with these things, so you'll reach out easily. Operational and cognitive activities are defined in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, point 2, operational control in Article. 42.52, cooperation with non-officers, as we have already mentioned in the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and access to telecommunications, postal and internet data In Article 2, paragraph 1 is We do not grant other powers in this respect to the service in question. And that's why I sent it back to those articles that define powers. Because the State Security Service, today's Government Security Office doesn't receive a whole package of these powers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u71	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask you a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you for these comprehensive questions and for practicing me with them. But I think I answered most of it.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Answers to Senators Czarnobaj and Borusewicz's questions in writing...]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I was wondering why the BOR must be wound up. I thought it was that tire, that tree. No. This is a weird situation. This is revenge for the Smolensk disaster. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] How can that be? [[No, don't overreact.]] I heard what the Minister said. And that's what he said. Nine BOR officers were killed in the Smolensk disaster. [[One day without memories...]] It's gotta be... We've been here so many years since the crash. I thought it was possible to approach this disaster, this terrible disaster, in a rational and peaceful manner. I believe that this proposed change will disorganize the functioning of this service. All right, you can make those changes. The government has the right to do that. I understand. The Sejm approved it, the Senate is on it, and I'm sure they'll approve this statutory amendment as well. This formation may be called yes, it may be called otherwise. This shortcut from the State Security Service is not happy, but I will not come up with another name, Minister, because I have no obligation. It was you who proposed a short term name in the act, which is also associated with garden-bee cooperatives that have been in operation for a long time. Well, it's not a good shortcut, because that's how it's going to be associated, and this is a serious formation, fulfilling serious tasks in protecting the highest representatives of the state. You've applied well-known and used rules before. Well, what do you want me to say? I call it personal cleansing, because if these people are to receive a call or an invitation to work in this new service within a few months, it means that some of them will not receive it. This isn't about revisiting the number of top positions. In fact, it is very possible that there has been an overgrowth of such positions in this small service, but this simple record speaks of something else. An officer who gets the wrong job may resign. Okay, it's his decision, but it could also be a situation where he won't get any proposal. I'm afraid most of these things are going to happen. That's the point. Besides, this is a solution that PiS has already applied on TV, in a fiscal apparatus, in a customs apparatus. This is a solution, I think, against certain rules. Whoever you don't want, it's released in normal mode, and you're just breaking contracts with everyone, and then you're calling some back. But it's nothing. Well, my greatest opposition is to grant this new service, the SOP, the possibility of surgical and reconnaissance. Let me remind you that the BOR, the Office for Government Protection, had such operational and cognitive capabilities, the possibility of recruiting and running agents during the communism period. Then we walked away from it. I understand why the Minister didn't want to say it, but I want to remind you. We moved away from these competences so that only a few of the most important services could recruit and run agents, pay for them, etc. What does that mean? Does this mean that this service will be able to recruit journalists? This isn't the police, Homeland Security, et cetera. This service, among others. She will protect the Sejm and the Senate. Well, where are the most journalists, if not here? Where? There's the most reporters here. Why are you giving this permission? Every citizen, including a journalist, who sees the danger of committing a crime has a duty to inform about it. What's the point of getting more information? So that during the conference, you know what the reporters are gonna ask? What's that for? It's completely unnecessary. It's unnecessary. Such powers are not necessary at all. Imagine at this point that... within your competence, who will be recruited? Who's it gonna recruit? It's gonna recruit... It'll be possible to recruit... They're gonna recruit administrative staff, they're gonna recruit in the informant's place to protect, of course, to protect where they're protected. Let's assume, Mr. Minister. He's shopping. About the neighbors... That's where we're gonna get informants in these places, Minister. And what happens when the minister leaves? What's going to happen? It's the informants that stay. There will remain informants recruited there. Someone else is going to be Minister, but he'll be able to get information about you. I understand why the Marshal of the Sejm decides to make the Marshal's Guard a protective formation that will protect him and the Marshal of the Senate. I see. It is probably because he quite rightly believes that this type of action will be used, that informants will be recruited, who will then, as you stop being a marshal, have a different function, i.e. They'll also pass on information. This is danger, serious danger. So I think that the solution so far, when the BOR could acquire and commission different types of activities, was quite sufficient. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very thin line between security and surveillance. That's what I'm paying attention to. When does security turn into surveillance, collecting information? When a protected person does not have such information, he does not receive information that his neighbor was recruited to protect him. Oh, yes, ladies and gentlemen, so it will be. Therefore, I am filing a motion to reject the bill. If he does not pass, I make 2 amendments: an amendment removing the proposal to give the Service your operational powers and an amendment concerning the fact that in such a situation, when you recruit to protect a protected person, and these are people with the highest functions of the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Minister for Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Marshals of the Sejm and Senate It is then that protected person, if you recruit any of her surroundings, should receive information about it, should know about it, otherwise it is not protection, it is surveillance. And last but not least, Minister, I'm glad the police have 1,000 jobs... [[Mr. Marshal, it's been ten minutes.]] ...more. [[You're welcome.]] But what does the police do with these jobs? I'm sure a thousand people... A thousand cops are here to protect two buildings from demonstrators. Does it take that much, Minister? And since you also used that standard term PiS... [[Mr. Marshal, but you're welcome. Everyone has 10 minutes, and you've already crossed them, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm coming down. Your standard 8 years ago... I would also like to say: free courts, free elections, free Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u73	Slow Sunday. Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would just remind you that if these amendments are to be considered, leave them... I would like to welcome the President of the Georgian Parliament, Mr Irakli Kobachiga, present in the Chamber very solemnly. I very much welcome the President and the delegation. [[Applause]] I warmly welcome the President and the accompanying Members of the Georgian Parliament. I also welcome the Ambassador of Georgia to the Republic of Poland, Mr Ilia Darchiashvili. Hello, Mr. Ambassador. [[Applause]] Mr. Chairman accepted our invitation and is staying with a three-day official visit to Poland. We had very interesting conversations. We also signed a strategic partnership agreement between the Georgian Parliament and the Sejm and the Senate. This agreement will certainly intensify our contacts even more and increase friendship between Poland and Georgia. Thank you very much, Mr President. If anyone wants to applaud, you're welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We move on to further discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator. [[Listen, speak Georgian.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u74	In Ukrainian, it's still... Can I get some water from your secretary? [[Please.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Minister! Let me tell you about my dreams first. Minister, I'm dreaming of a situation like this. No matter what kind of political configuration we're in. The minister who is in charge of security comes and says, "We used what was good in previous governments, but now we're going to do better, and he says what he's going to do better." This is something that should be a standard, Minister, especially in the case of those responsible for security policy. Of course, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, are politicians who should also speak the political language. But I would expect in such areas, when we are talking about the State Protection Service or about the former BOR, the minister present here uses a little bit of a different language. But this is my dream, and the Minister used the language he used. At the end of the day, I'm gonna talk to that language. I'm gonna tell you what this case is about. Firstly, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Minister has quoted such facts in many countries. I have noted here, Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, and there is a similar system. I am pleased that we are taking an example from countries with a lot of experience in this area, because I will say briefly There's something to take an example from and from. Only now, entering the minister's note... Minister, it's a pity it's only in this one element. Have you heard that in these countries the constitution is not respected, that the constitution is broken, that the tribunal is destroyed, that authority is destroyed? Well, I don't think that's true. So it's a shame that only in this area... But the Minister is responsible for this area, and you accept... And I think it's okay. As far as the discussion is concerned, I would also prefer this discussion to be on the committee. And here the Minister comes and says, "Listen, it's better, I need this much, it's gonna be like this, and we accept it through the acclamation." Because this area requires some peace of mind when it comes to political speeches. I thought I was hoping it would be in the Minister's release. Minister, the fact that we're asking questions is not... I personally speak of myself, and I am not opposed to the changes that you and you, as Minister, are proposing. But our doubts are also aroused by the surroundings. That's what the marshal was talking about. The extension of competence in my assessment may follow. Since we are talking here about the security of the state and the most important people in the country, all instruments must be taken into account and applied. Since you are doing this as Law and Justice, and you are not saying that citizens in Poland voted for Law and Justice because you are going to introduce elements of the police state, since you are expanding your powers of surveillance, eavesdropping, etc. in all your services, this is a thing that gives us little concern, Minister. If we didn't have these experiences with a well-functioning Constitutional Court, subjecting the courts, so to speak, decisions and politicians, if we didn't have such a fantastically objective public television, etc., I would say, Minister, blind: Minister, you're right, 100% I am voting in favour of this project if he has at least one millimeter to improve the safety of the most important people in the country, it is worth doing so. And two more words about that... If that's what the Minister said, I'll answer politically. Minister, this is the second time I've read Alexis de Tocqueville's book on American democracy. It is nice to read, in which the same author states that a strong country is not a country where police and services have a lot of powers. They are invisible to you and invisible to the citizen. And in situations of dispute, in case of demonstrations such as, for example, We have in Poland, the police protect demonstrators. That's the difference. That's one thing. [[Exactly.]] Secondly, I would like to say that a strong democratic state is the Minister, a country in which democratic structures of the state are strong, that is, the support of citizens' movements, that is, what concerns all citizens' movements, is respect for the authorities and institutions of the state, and do not let God think of breaking the Constitution. Of course, I am talking about the assessment of these few 40 international organisations that have also written about the violation of the Constitution. And I understand that this fits with the great statement of the Minister that the street and abroad, but I think it's time to come up with something new. To conclude, Minister, I would like to say yes. As far as wages are concerned, the policeman, as I read, has an average of about PLN 4,000 577, said that in this service there will be about PLN 4,000 200, and the teacher earns from PLN 2,000 800 to PLN 4,000. Now I'm going to use the political elements. It was so wide, so to speak, a thinker who said this: a police state is one where a teacher makes less money than a policeman. That's why, Minister... [[Who's that?]] Please? [[Who's the thinker?]] Vladimir Iljicz Lenin. Maybe you haven't read it. [[Voice from the room: She didn't read.]] I simply want to say that caring for service is important, but it is also important that this level playing field with a view to equal development also in the sense of reward extends to other important, at least equally important spheres of social life. I'm talking about teachers, doctors and other people who make less money. I therefore encourage that there should be less political declarations, Minister, in this respect, more gentleness, and certainly reception, also in public space, will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u75	Thank you. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! A new formation is being created in place of the Office of Government Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ask ourselves: why this new formation, why is it created? I heard the government security office... we all liked the name, it was good. Of course, it is possible to reform within this office, but it turns out that there is no need for a new formation. Why is there a new formation? Well, it's pretty clear. This usually applies to HR. So far there have been many experienced people who have worked for many years in the BOR, those who have been in various trainings, those who had to prepare for this service. Now, as is the case with change... I was a little surprised by the Minister's statement that the verification of those remaining in the service would also be carried out by means of a polygraph, that is, a lie detector, so popular we say. I'm a little surprised that this is how you're gonna have to verify those in the service. It is to be expected that this verification will be profound and that a lot of people will leave the service. I'll give examples of how it was in the police, in various other services, e.g. In the Fire Department, there are 50-year-old pensioners, and that's a lot of those pensioners, I know a lot of them myself. They have pensions of 5,000, everyone in this border 5,000 or more than 5,000 zlotys. There's another new group coming. We could count how many of these people have arrived for two years, but by the end of the term of office there are still two years. I'm starting to worry about the unemployment rate because she's always falling. Recently, by changing the system, we have sent almost 400,000 people to pensions, and more and more people are coming. I'm starting to worry about whether in Poland the unemployment rate Soon it won't be negative how you keep going, so... Probably in that direction. It's all coming. Why are you shutting down the BOR? You give here the State, the Minister gives various examples in terms of liquidation. I heard about World Youth Day, the NATO Summit, that everything was safe, it was good that the services had worked out, and now I hear that they didn't always work out. An example of the Smolensk disaster was given. Mr. Marshal said that 10 BOR officers were killed there, and we need to remember that, too. I thought we weren't gonna go back to that, but we need to consider what BOR was involved in here, who reported on board the plane, who tried to approach landing under conditions that were impossible to... [[Mr. Senator...]] etc., etc. And what do the BOR officers have to do with this? [[Mr. Senator...]] Why are we accusing BOR officers? I don't think they have anything to do with it. I'm just giving you an example of how you talk about things like that. What do BOR officers have to do with it? Ladies and gentlemen, the new services are to be additionally equipped, for example, with the powers to carry out operational and exploratory activities. Recently it was, I recall, the matter of the Office of Internal Supervision, the Minister said the same thing: equipment, similar activities, that is gathering various information, etc., etc., about how these services work. I'm starting to worry that you might not start to be wrong about these services, because so many of them already have these powers... So that only these services can contact each other so that it is not so that each of them conducts similar activities on his own account. I mean, there's more and more of these services. These informants in connection with the SOP, as well as journalists, have already been mentioned here, and I do not want to repeat that. The question remains, where is the border of our country's security, our border. We see what's going on around the Seym, the Senate, we see police forces, I don't know why so much. I don't know... If there's a cop or someone who's gonna be watching us, then we're gonna feel safe? Where's this going, then? In conclusion, I believe that this bill is unnecessary and unnecessary, because we have the Government Protection Office that operates, and that is why at the committee meeting was my proposal to reject this law. Unfortunately, the motion is gone, but I hear that the marshal has now made a similar motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There's a lot of threads here, but I'd like to refer to just one thing, and I think it's important. Referring to Lenin's quotes explains a lot, such a reference point explains a lot. I'm not gonna comment on that. However, I would like to refer to what the senator was talking about here. I respect teachers very much, I value their hard work, and I think they should be won with dignity, and I've tried many times to do so. But cops put their lives at risk every day. This is a special sacrifice... We even know that in recent days, well, in these last days... so perhaps this remuneration is only symbolically emphasized by this heavy service that is also bound to sacrifice. We want everyone to make more money. The information society and the knowledge-based economy are currently being built. We know that this time divides the global world into different speeds of economic development and wealth of these economies, and citizens who will be very diverse. We know that Mr Morawiecki's plan gives rise to innovation, which will result in innovative production, GDP growth, increased budget revenues, as well as an increase in the earnings of all citizens. But let us not give in to such rhetoric of the current beautiful comparisons. Because here you're accusing... you're saying it's about state security that it's so important that we should use certain words, but you're using rhetoric that contradicts that. The safety of citizens is very important. Here I would like to thank all the police officers, all the services for their daily hard work, e.g. on World Youth Day, where we have seen best, how wonderfully organized and friendly it is. I've seen a cop pull the gate so a disabled man can take his seat. For all this, we thank the police officers, the minister, all the services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[Voice from the room: There's still...]] Well, then we'll have to sign up. You're welcome, Senator. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u80	Our guests are already leaving the sitting room... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I take it a little bit... [[Yeah, just a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Professor, as part of my explanation, I would like to say two words about this, perhaps not a very precise quote on the relationship between the level of remuneration of teachers and the level of remuneration of policemen and services. First of all, I didn't address anyone. I would like to make this clear. Secondly, I want to say yes. The Minister used a lot of different kinds of arguments regarding his service policy, because the Minister is responsible for his service and ensures that he makes as much money as possible in this service. And that's the minister's role. I'm talking about it, Professor. Whether I agree or not, this is a completely different matter, but I don't know why the professor reacted so harshly... maybe not harshly, but he pointed it out. That a thinker from the East said that a police state is a country where a teacher... excuse me, a policeman makes more money than a teacher. I did not address this to you or to the Minister, but I stated on the basis of statistics what the situation in Poland is today. If you understand this as a hint, I say I didn't mean to. But I think personally. Now I am talking in the context of a broad spectrum of state policy on various types of services, inspections, guards, but also teaching, medical environments, that there should be a hierarchy on the level of wages that will be achieved in the years 3, 4, 5, in 2 years or 10 years. And I personally believe that the Minister is presenting a position of caring for his own service. And that's the minister's role. But I am talking about the fact that we as senators should also pay attention to the fact that what concerns the relationship between the salaries of teachers and doctors and the salaries of services and police officers is somewhat shaken in my opinion. And that's all I had in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u82	Thank you very much. Professor Wind, right? Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u83	Let it be as another performance or as ad vocem, because I have been called here several times. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, the senator says I reacted harshly, even though he was wondering if it was hard... [[Because it should be...]] Yeah, I meant it hard! I wanted to react hard... [[Mr. Senator's blurring it...]] I did! Because the senator refers to Lenin, and he says he doesn't refer to Lenin... So this is kind of weird. But there's no doubt that the longer you've been saying that you've reduced the rank of police officers. And that's what caused my reaction. You're talking about hierarchy. Well, let's talk about hierarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Here there were many unfair courts, symptoms of certain fears of some colleagues from the Civic Platform. It seemed that this law should not cause great controversy, because we are transforming one service, the Office for Government Protection, into a State Protection Service, which, anyway, must function, must ensure the security of the highest authorities in the country and protect strategic objects from the point of view of the Polish state. But there are a lot of bad words here. I was offended by the expression of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm sorry I'm gonna have to talk to you again. That the main reason for this is the Smolensk catastrophe. The Minister made it very clear in this context that the Office for Government Protection will not... that the State Protection Service will not take over the bad habits of the Office for Government Protection, and such a bad practice, the result of the habit was after the Smoleńsk catastrophe the promotion of the head of the then BOR to the rank of general. Because what was he like, Mr. Marshal, the success of Chief BOR? The head of the BOR after the Smolensk disaster should resign. And you... This is the only consequence that this man should face, not the general sands. If we want to talk about the Smolensk disaster in the context of the BOR, it is only in this respect. And Minister Zieliński said that there were shortcomings on the part of the Government Security Bureau in the Smolensk disaster. But I'm sure turning BOR into State Protection today isn't... [[But this isn't transformation!]] Please? [[It's creating a new formation, and the BOR is...]] [[But, gentlemen, please...]] Creating a new formation... Of course it's a new formation, but this new formation, which formally arises, accepts... is a legal continuation in terms of employees, assets, structures. The same was true when we were creating the National Tax Administration, a new institution was also created, Mr. Senator, but people came to it, passed the structures, passed the tasks, although some things were redesigned, integrated. And the same is true of the State Protection Service, here we also expand tasks, expand the directory of places that will be protected, we do not want it to be as pathetic as when the protection of key objects in the country was commissioned by some private companies, where people, until we have raised the minimum wage, made 5 or 6 PLN an hour each. Today, we want the state service to protect the most important people in the country, as well as to protect the most important objects that are on this list. And that's why we're a little surprised. I'm surprised, and I know my friends are surprised. The Minister has spoken for many minutes on this speaker about staff shortages, certain shortcomings, payment of debts towards officers, giant debts, taking into account the BOR budget... We straighten it all out, we clean it up, we strengthen it... If we give this law any competence to the SOP, then it is either the competences parallel to those of other services, other units of this type, uniforms, or the competences of twin services in other countries in the world, in democratic countries such as Germany, the United States, Canada or others. We are not introducing any element here that would be dangerous from the point of view of the democratic rule of law. We guarantee all the officers and employees we've worked for... Of course, the boss or the new SOP chief leaves himself with an opportunity to verify, and generally every boss has such an opportunity to verify. I'm going to say it again, and I'm going to refer to this very close example. When we were creating KAS, you were also extremely aware of how many of them would lose their jobs. And they didn't lose the job because they couldn't lose the job because someone had to do the job. And so are today's BOR officers in 99%. They're not gonna lose their jobs because this security job has to be done. Ba, I'll say it like that. This service, as the Minister has already said and as it is written in the explanatory memorandum, will be strengthened and staffed and financially and in any other way. And that's the only way I'm gonna say it. In general, I will end my speech with what the Minister started with. Well, the rule of law and justice has been given the state of operation of the BOR not of the highest quality. We're gonna want to give power someday. I hope that we will rule as long as possible, but in a democratic state it is natural that the opposition comes to power sometime. And we would like the State Protection Service to be at a much higher level then to work more efficiently and more efficiently than what we found in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr... [[Senator.]] I'm sorry. Dear Senator, you don't see And it seems that you should see a fundamental change in the role of this service. I tried to highlight that. This service shall be granted operational and cognitive powers which it did not have. So recruiting co-workers, running these co-workers, tasking and paying for these co-workers. Well, it will be the task of what happens in the environment of the protected person. If you don't see it, then... I'm not saying you're naive, you're not naive, but you're not supposed to look at it from a political point of view. I separate politics from such solutions, from such solutions. They're also dangerous because one day the PiS, as you rightly point out, will lose its power. Will it be taken over by the Platform? I don't know, maybe some group much more radical. These people on the streets... some of these people are more radical than us, than me. I can see that. And if you're saying that the main cause is that the head of the BOR, who was acting during the Smolensk disaster... Well, you pointed out that the point was that he was appointed a general and so on. And that's why this kind of change needs to be done here, to eliminate this institution and to create a new one. But he's not the boss in a long time, it's out of date, so that's not the point. Let me remind you that there are other security services, for example. Railroad Security, S.O.K. Well, maybe give them surgical and cognitive powers, too? I know they'd want one of these, there were even plans. The Minister is smiling because the Minister knows that there were plans on the part of this institution. But I'm going back to BOR. It's very dangerous to be able to recruit people around a protected person. These are the people who perform the highest functions in the country. And I repeat, someday these people will stop performing these functions, but there's no record that those people, i.e. Secret co-workers will be decommissioned. They will continue to function, but what role will they play in the event of this change of situation? Well, you also have to make a distinction between security and surveillance. If anyone's following you, you might think it's surveillance. And the Minister has recently claimed that this is security. When police officers were walking around on a civilian and watching a few people, organizers of demonstrations... that's what the police were doing. This can be seen from those records that have been revealed, the police, because other services would use a slightly different tactic. And the minister on the question, also mine, why it was so, whether it was surveillance, answered: no, it wasn't surveillance, it was security. Minister, the difference between surveillance and security is that those protected know that they're being protected, that someone is following them, and the surveillance people don't know, because it's classified... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...because it's done in a secret way. Well, that's the difference. [[Time...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u88	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go. And then you're Senator Arthur Warzocha, right? [[Yeah, he signed up.]] He signed up. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to perform, but there was this beautiful performance by Senator Mroza, who, as usual, will not always read or intentionally mix a bit. And it provoked me to add two words to this discussion. The bill clearly states that a new service is being created and the old one is being abolished. This is not a transformation of the existing service, but something else, so it has far-reaching consequences. It's one thing. Second thing. This 2001 law assumes that less than 3,000 people, 2 000 900 people, are to work at the Government Security Office. These conditions have never been reached. Now the new law assumes, as the Minister said, that in this new service there will also be about 3,000, less than 3,000 people, which is what was planned in 2001. It was alleged that this was never achieved in the 2001 Act. The Minister has spoken of this here several times. He also said that the target was 2,000 employees working in the new service. But this new ministry will have much more extensive tasks. In practice, this will mean that about the same tasks that the BOR is doing today will deal with about the same number of people, so there will be no change in this matter. What's next? What's it gonna be? We'll see. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u90	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak on this, but having listened to all the speeches that were coming from the senators here, from the opposition, I would like to say that for many of the elements that were raised by them, I am personally very grateful, because it was A great praise, a laurel in honor of this country, for which the Law and Justice have taken responsibility, can be said. Indeed, it is true what Senator Czarnobaj said, who said that Poland should be a country that supports NGOs. Yes, sir, Senator, this is undeniable. The state should strengthen the process of creating civil society, which we are obviously trying to do every step of the way, and also seek to explain the causes of the Smolensk disaster. Well, in this case, it's hard not to notice the hardships on our part. The police, in turn, should act in such a way as to protect the safety of citizens, including demonstrators, and this is actually the case. This was also mentioned by my previous speakers, among others. Senator Wind of Law and Justice. The services should do everything in their power to be invisible to the public. That is also what this law is all about, including the draft amendment that we are currently debating. I would also like to thank you for referring to the name of this new service, the State Protection Service. This is definitely a better name than the Government Protection Office, which, in general sense, can be viewed as a service that is designed to protect some, say, manor or high-gram. The name of the State Protection Service refers directly to what this service should do. She should be protecting the state and, in guesses, also working to protect the average citizen. And I am very grateful to Senator Blackbay for quoting Vladimir Lenin. Well, I'm grateful that he's the one who quoted it, not one of us. We couldn't quote it because we just don't read Lenin's works. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u92	Excuse me? [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct Senator Warzocha's statement.]] There you go. But short and short. [[From where?]] Yeah, from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to say that I will try, however, to speak another language to you, others to the citizens, in the context of the draft budget law. I would like you to understand that I was talking about fundamental things not in the sense of praise for the state. In view of the lack of time later, I will quote the facts about your support for civil society. That's one thing. I will exchange all these elements and support them with facts so that you can understand my irony. Secondly, I'd like to say something about Lenin's work. Mr. Senator, there's a difference: from what I know, one of your leaders was probably writing a master's or doctoral paper from Lenin's work. I might be wrong, that's why I'm saying it's wrong. That's the first difference. And the second difference is that I know them, but I don't apply them, and you don't know them, but you do. That's all I wanted to explain. [[You do.]] [[You asked, I answered you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Frost. He didn't write his master's degree about it, but he quoted Lenin, Mr. Senator. [[That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Once again, once again, I would not link the transformation of the BOR into the SOP with the Smolensk disaster. Mr. Marshal, as I said, if there is anything here, any analogy, then the analogy is that in 2010 in the history of the operation of the BOR this is the year that is a stain in this history, in the 16-year history of the BOR. The fact that that unfortunate general is no longer the head of the BOR and no longer functioning... Of course, I'm aware that this has happened, and very well, because this man... Well, it's sad that he's a general. That's all I can say to close this thread. In this new ministry as far as possible This is outlined in this plan for 10 or 12 years, employment will increase to around 3 000, because the 3 000 is the number that guarantees the performance of these duties. We're already short on officers today, and we've done a little bit more of that. We took off certain duties, especially as regards the protection of foreign offices, but we added others in the country. So anyway, these officers are gonna be... As the Minister said, speaking of statistics, it is not so easy to get a sufficient number of officers and it is not possible to expect that next year he will suddenly be there, I do not know, 200 or 300 more jobs, because they will not be there, because this is the market. Perhaps this procedure will start. I do not know, in any case the gate is, you can say, made to carry people already operating in other services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, in the Police, and they will supply this new service. That's probably how it's gonna have to be. Because since we are giving new competences, operational and cognitive competences, and present officials do not have these competences, but others, people in other services, it may be necessary to get these people to this level in order to teach them in particular not to teach them at the beginning, but to gain from the market people who have experience in this type of activity. Again, because all the time it's like... The basis for this is some of your fears that this SOP, I don't know, will be monitoring someone, probably opposition politicians. These examples of yours that somebody's been going somewhere... Ladies and gentlemen, this has already been repeated many times, but I will remind you that this service, the SOP, will have these operational and cognitive powers, firstly, only to a limited extent and, secondly, only in the performance of its functions, so it will not follow or monitor any Member or Senator, because we as Members and Senators are not entitled to protection either BOR or SOP, except for the Senate and Sejm marshals. So why would someone in this service take care of me or just John Kowalski? I stress that this is only in terms of what is necessary for the protection of protected persons and the protection of buildings. When someone, I don't know, wants to plant a bomb under the Prime Minister's or President's office, this service will capture these elements, she is, but if someone is there, I don't know, living in Jelenia Góra, just like me, and walking... And why should the SOP take care of such a person, me or anyone, any other inhabitants of Jelenia Góra? There are, of course, specific services in the country, special services that are more extensive. They took care of you in your day, they took care of you in our day, and they're going to take care of you. Those who rule and will rule. This is the consequence of the functioning of the countries in the 21st century. After all, this service will not be a service under the Minister's responsibility to the coordinator of special services, but to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, so it will be a service to safeguard, protect and not to surveillance anyone. So, Mr. Marshal, this is a complete mix-up. I'm sure there are servants... not sure, they're just in our country of service who are doing some surveillance in their area of competence, but it's not gonna be the service. This service doesn't have any powers, strictly the competence of the special forces. This is a service to ensure safety, and I think that the marshal is completely unnecessarily concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u96	Although you referred to my speech, because I've changed places and I'm sitting somewhere else right now, I'm not going to argue with you. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u97	I decided to speak by listening to many words. First of all, Mr. Senator, I'm addressing you first. I would like to say that it is high time you did not look back and not say that you inherited the Government Security Office in terrible condition. For over 2 years now, this new government security office has been in place and over these 2 years. # Ho, ho, ho # A lot of accidents have happened to this company, loud and sometimes embarrassing accidents, I would say. I'm not going to mention it because we've been living it for two years. I think so. Now I'm addressing the Minister. That the State decided to normalize certain matters, reorganise this office, etc. I could commend it, but of course I'll do it eventually only when this new service starts to work and when I see whether it is really a pro-Citizen, whether it protects citizens in such a way that citizens can feel it. Both the Minister spoke about it and other speakers and whether it would not act, at one or another order, against the citizens. As rightly stated here, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland guarantees this to all people of our country. We're counting on it, we're expecting it, and we'd like to see it happen like in other countries. Rather, Poles felt the police's care and willingness to advise and were sure that they could feel citizens without being exposed to some kind of harassment, which very often meet people for very stupid reasons. It is really enough to go to these trials that take place several times, the trials of Polish citizens or other people taking part in the demonstrations, to find out how small, almost ridiculous, are accusations that are being made against some people, and which are falling from the police, which gives reasons for detention. I don't want to quote it here because these materials are available to the public, but that doesn't mean that the police are keeping the peace of the citizens and doesn't cause any negative reflexes. So let's see if this change that you're proposing about the Office of Government Protection isn't just a change of name. It will be very difficult for people to get used to this new name, to the abbreviation SOP, not BOR, if it is not actually supported by documented facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u98	Thank you, Senator. There are no more speakers. I would like to inform you that Senator Bogdan Borusewicz has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statements of several senators were very political. This has been the case since the beginning, and at the same time it has been called upon to discuss safety in substance. Mr. Senators, I'm sure I'm one of the first people who would like to discuss safety in substance. It's even been like this in previous years. In particular, at the meetings of the Sejm committees, but also in some sense in the High Chambers of the Sejm and the Senate. We tried to talk about security a little bit differently than other matters, which is less of a political dispute, because this is such a value that it is worth focusing on what is relevant. But unfortunately, during this term of office we are in, the opposition does not allow such a thing, because the most necessary projects, the most substantively justified, are being denied, are being attacked. We want to make things right so we can make it safer. There is an attack on the solutions proposed in these laws. So how can you not answer that, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators? That, representing the government, I have to answer, otherwise it can't be. It is simply necessary to expose such false situations and return to solutions, constantly return to them, explaining what it is all about, what is the purpose of it. Maybe so: the word "surveillance" was often mentioned here. Here, as well as in the Sejm during the debate on this law and on other draft security laws, the word "surveillance" often falls from the mouth of the current opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you air surveillance everywhere. I said it very gently before, and now I have to say it harder because it's back. That's because you used it, that you used it. Do you remember the information provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Special Services in the Seym at one time? This was about your time. Have you forgotten what the Homeland Security case was like, with the help of the police, in your time, to the editorial office of the weekly? Excuse me, it's us. Did we or did you? Service under your rule. You guys are breathing surveillance all over the place because you've just been monitoring. That's the problem. That's your problem. And you need to deal with him. Inside, in his own consciences and in his own party. Mr. Marshal, I address Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Of course, you were very simplifying the issue by treating it very selectively, talking about personal sources of information, and you also said that it would be dangerous, that this would be such surveillance. Mr. Marshal, you are the Marshal of the Senate. It's not a secret, because it's the law that had the protection of the Government Security Bureau. Art. 19 The present law on the BOR states precisely that the Office for the Protection of the Government in the performance of its tasks, those preventive sentences which it had so far, could benefit from the help of non-officers, i.e. from personal sources of information. Did something happen to you? During the time you had protection, did you suffer any damage because of this, any distress, experience surveillance? And BOR could have used it. This isn't a new rating. This right here isn't new. This isn't a new rating. The others are new, and this isn't. And that's what you've been focusing on. So I'm really asking... Of course, it's the voice of a cryer in the wilderness. I know that, but I'm gonna get back to that, and I'm gonna ask that we read into the bill before we attack him. You don't do that, unfortunately. Security should be a non-political issue, and I fully agree with that. I wish I could come here, to the High House, and to the Senate to speak only in substance, but you do not allow me to do so. Well, you won't, because there's an attack since the first statement, there's a negation. You ask: is it okay or is it bad? Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of safety, thanks to our efforts Our government, our services, our chiefs... You're negating the exchange, and these new chiefs are doing great, and they're doing very well. Thanks to everything we've done, and thanks to the regulations, including the new ones we've introduced. Even with the anti-terrorist bill, which you also denied... And you saw surveillance there, you winded it there. Thanks to all these efforts Poland is a safe country. Also thanks to immigration policy, consistent, smart, we are a safe country. 89% Poles think I will remind you that this is the result of public opinion polls It's safe in Poland. And there's reason to think that, because all the indicators, statistics, people's feelings, experts' judgement prove it. It all confirms that. 95% Poles believe that it is safe to live in the place where we spend most of our lives, where most citizens spend most of their time, where families live, where children go to school, where we live. These data are very upbuilding, very optimistic, important. But we want it to be even better, we want all services to operate at a very high level of requirements, to maintain standards, to reject the bad past, to choose a good tradition and build on it... This one, among other things. This law is in service. About the past, because that thread came back again... Ladies and gentlemen, we want to break up with what's wrong. The tradition of the government security office, the good news, I said it and I will repeat it, will be preserved, but such a tradition... Current Civil Platform activist, General Marian Janicki He joined the Platform, talked about it in the media, was informed about it, got a second star after the Smolensk disaster, when the basic tasks of the Government Protection Office were neglected, this formation did not provide security at the proper level to protected persons, including the head of state. You're telling me not to go back to that. It would be good not to go back to that, but unfortunately, this country is bringing these associations together with its own words, and you are invoking them. Let me remind you again: the fact that instead of resigning, the former head of the government security office was promoted in general... [[To the President's death...]] ...it wasn't really justified, it was something damned, even disgraceful, that word I'm going to use. [[Degradation...]] It was a political decision, which confirms the fact that this gentleman became an PO activist. And more. The Office for Government Protection is a name that refers to the formation that has been in operation since 2001, but this name also existed earlier, just up to the 1950s, when Military Unit No 1004. And this unit, this formation, the service in it has been... Mr. Marshal, to you as an opposition activist... After all, we know each other from that time and remember our aspirations... This unit, the service in it, has been covered by the debubecism law, those who served in this formation are subject to the regulations of the debubecisation law. Not without reason, because it was an entity qualified as a security service of the Polish People's Republic in this sense... written in a small letter, not a large one. Although it could probably be written and large, it could be defined in an extended view. So that it is not a coincidence, with such a tradition we actually break up. One of the senates spoke in the discussion. I don't remember any of you, maybe even a marshal, if you don't, I'm sorry. It is a return to the time when the Office of Government Protection was operating, so it was then. Yes, but, ladies and gentlemen, it was a special service of the Polish People's Republic, and we want to protect people and objects who will be subject to such protection. We break with that tradition, but that doesn't mean we don't have to give tools to modern protective formation. I have cited examples of very civilized countries, of established democracies, longer lasting than the one we have. There these security services are equipped with such instruments, because the protective service must function effectively, must have tools to perform protective tasks, otherwise it may be required, but it will not be able to meet these requirements. She must have these tools. Ladies and gentlemen, really, just like the other laws... When you deny the authority of the service, remember that they are defined, they are controlled, they are subject to supervision, control, reporting, is the review of the court and the prosecutor's office according to the statutory definition of these activities. It is not that you can freely use such tools. No one will be able to use them freely. Senator, you've caused a complete misunderstanding. I'm sorry I have to say it like that. It's a complete misunderstanding. Currently, the Office for Government Protection is not designed to protect citizens, only protected persons, and neither will the State Protection Service serve to protect citizens, only protected persons and facilities. So that here these associations are completely wrong. Of course, the police are the formation to ensure the safety of citizens, to ensure that public policy is respected. And the police are doing it. And now, back to some of the other statements made by your senators, I would like to say that this is the case. The police, also during demonstrations at the Sejm, at the Senate and in other places, at public gatherings, not only protects, as in our case The Sejm, the Senate, was referred to here. Not only the Sejm and the Senate, but also the demonstrators. You remember what happened on December 16, 2016 when these people were throwing themselves. Under the cars? Demonstrators. Should they also have been kept safe? You should have. And the police assured them. And so, among other things. such a high level of police evaluation 'Cause it keeps the citizens safe every day, but all of them... There are plenty of demonstrations in Poland. In the last 2 years there have been a lot of different colors, different ointments. [[Support...]] Left to right, I don't know. If there's no provocation that happened in your day, if there's no smoking booths under the Russian embassy or under any of these other objects... [[Oh, Jesus.]] Grab your head. It's worth it. It's worth it. It's worth it, Senator. It's worth it, even in pain. It's worth it. Do it. [[I'm moaning, but for another reason.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like you to express with other gestures such remorse... You have to, you have to. It's worth it, I encourage you. If there's no such provocation, there's no riots, there's no so-called riots. It's not a problem unless someone's breaking the law. But without breaking the law, it doesn't exist. November 11th, ladies and gentlemen, there were no such riots. When doubts arose, doubts related not to behavior, not to disorder by physical behavior, but to the content of banners, it was a reaction. And there will always be a reaction. The D.A.'s gonna judge that. But it's not going to be that the police are going to pull out the banners at a certain point, because that would be the provocation to riot, that would be the very wrong way to act. This will be assessed and justice will be served if necessary. Just so we're clear, Under the rule of law and justice there will be no slightest tolerance for any prohibited action or the promotion of totalitarian content. I mean, it's pretty obvious. I want to stress this once again very strongly, so that there is no doubt. The police did their job, but they did what they had to do, without provoking riots. Of course, the opposition would want the police to just step in the crowd to pull out the banners and to have images going around the world showing how this is happening in Poland, what the fuss is about. Well, that's what you need. We're not gonna give you that, we're not gonna give you these games, unfortunately. Well, I'm sorry to have to... I mean, I'd love to, and I'm sorry for you guys to say this. That's not gonna happen. Do not deny the legal solutions that serve the state, serve citizens, serve security. You're denying everything. For example, the Anti-Terrorism Act It has reduced the number of reports of an explosive charge; there are fewer costs, there are fewer risks. Today, among other things, we have been discussing this issue. The statistics show this very clearly. So starting with the anti-terrorist bill, because they're good regulations... Thanks to this law, we expelled people who threatened security from Poland who were associated with a terrorist threat. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You didn't want that. You're talking about security, and you've been denying this bill. Thanks to this law, some solutions could be introduced during these great events in 2016, such as the World Youth Days, the NATO Summit. This ensured security during these great events in 2016. The same in 2017 was the visit of US President Donald Trump in Warsaw, former European youth football championships, there were many other major events, whether cultural or other types, such as demonstrations, and I repeat, various. But the police work equally everywhere. What do you expect? What do you want? That you will destabilize the democratic order of the state and the services will not respond? Well, don't make such associations, because they're just very fake and they make you look very bad. They're exposing you right away. It's about demonstrations and your association with the eighties. Remember, remember that at that time we had a communist regime established in Poland as a power, the Junta of General Jaruzelski, so to speak, based on Soviet tanks, Soviet power, Soviet empire. Today is the democratically elected power. You were that kind of power, and we are that kind of power, and others will be that kind of power. Let us keep democratic order in Poland. You can't accept that you lost the election. Therefore, you want to destabilize the situation with demonstrations, the occupation of the Seym Speaker, the attack on the Sejm and the Senate. Order must be preserved. Fortunately, citizens are getting a better understanding of this and less and less come here because they know that you are leading them astray, that for your political purposes you are trying to lead them the wrong way. They won't trust you anymore. [[There's only one...]] You're saying... Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform is talking about destroying the Court, courts. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? [[About what in Europe...]] What are we talking about? Do you still want to talk about reporting on Poland to the European institutions? Your fellow Members... MEPs, 6 of them voted... disgrace! This is a disgrace! [[And they supported them.]] This is a disgrace! [[Everyone...]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Six, not all of them.]] Senator Czarnobaj said very important words about respect for the authorities and institutions of the state. This is a quote. I agree with that. Is it respectful, Senator, for the authorities and for the institutions of the state, for the occupation of the Seym Speaker, for preventing proceedings, for the adoption of laws? Is this respect for the institutions of the state? Congratulations. [[I can answer you, but I don't have...]] [[He can't...]] Is he respecting the institutions of the state... [[I wish I knew you understood that, but I can't...]] [[In the middle of a discussion.]] [[There's no more discussion.]] Is it a respect for state institutions to block the possibility of legislation that reform this country? [[You can still correct...]] [[The corrigendum is...]] You say there are times around the Sejm and the Senate that there are too many police. There are as many police officers as are responsible for security in command of these actions or police operations who believe that they should be introduced, designated to ensure the safety of the facilities and persons. Yeah, but if you stop calling for disobedience to democratic institutions, if you stop destabilizing the state, if you stop making a fuss, it'll be quieter. And that's when the police will be able to take care of the security of citizens at police stations, police stations, county headquarters. They're needed there. I wouldn't want them involved here either. I wouldn't want that because there's really something to do. But it is you who are causing this, the non-parliamentarians' and parliamentary opposition... that you, together, are causing this state. [[That's what you said in the '80s.]] [[Literally.]] [[Literally the same.]] [[With a tongue like that.]] [[Mr. Senators, let's hear the Minister's speech.]] [[And is it possible to report...]] [[No. You can't. I wanted to ask the Minister whether, as a representative of the government, he wanted to respond to the proposals put forward.]] Yes. I was just... [[You're welcome.]] ...about this all the time... Well, I don't know what... The conclusion is, as I heard, to reject... [[No. There are a few conclusions.]] I mean, I heard there's a motion to reject the bill. But of course I know about the others, but it wasn't here. [[That's it.]] But as far as the motion to reject the bill in its entirety is concerned, I have already replied. That's what... I am, of course, against this and I ask the High Senate to reject this proposal, and that is definitely because this proposal leads to a state of affairs that needs to be changed, reformed, improved. As far as all other amendments are concerned, I ask that they be rejected, because they, including the legislative ones, do not bring anything relevant to the bill, but extend the legislative process. These laws, when it comes to its readability, intentions, purpose and application, do not improve. And that's the final conclusion. And just one more explanation. 'Cause I used to bring up some numbers from memory. There's a custom in the Senate that you can't go and reach for notes, but you have to answer them right away. In the Seym it's a little different, you can refer to different materials there. That's why I want to correct one thing, because she can get through to the public in such an incomplete version. This is about the average salary of government security officers. I said that it amounts to about PLN 4,000 200... i.e. less than PLN 4,000 500, that's what I said. After checking we know that in 2017 it will be about PLN 4,000 650. So the average salary of government security officers is slightly higher. I don't count the annual prize here. So I'm just gonna make it clear that somebody didn't accuse me of saying something false when I said it from memory. Thanking you again for the discussion, I ask that we take another opportunity There will still be a lot of opportunities for the security debate. They talked substantively. And if there's no provocation, there's no political expression on your part, I can promise that I'll only talk about these matters in substance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u100	Thank you, Minister. [[We're not gonna praise you.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 694, and the report of the Commission In print No 694 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration was held yesterday. During the committee meeting, no representative of the applicants was present. The project was a parliamentary project. However, he was present at the meeting of the committee representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Artur Kocik, who supported this law. It was not a government project, but it was supported and supported by government representatives. Subject matter of the bill. The purpose of this law, as I mentioned earlier, from the parliamentary submission, is to carry out the duties imposed on the addressees of the law by introducing into the law the provisions on the basis of which the replacement order in which the voivode gives the name in accordance with the requirements of the law is to be implemented from the date of entry into force. It's written in the article. 1 paragraph 1 and 2. In the event of failure to comply with this order within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the voivodship, it will be carried out at the expense of the local government unit or the union. It will also be possible to change the name given under the substitution arrangement, provided that the local government unit obtains the consent of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the competent voivodeship. jThe complaint for the replacement order in question will only be granted if the failure to comply with the obligation laid down in the Act was due to reasons independent of that entity or relationship. The Act also amends the transitional provision in the last amendment of 22 June 2017 • shortens the deadline until 31 March 2018 for the removal by the owner or user of the property of a monument commemorating the person, organisation, event or date symbolising communism or another totalitarian system or promoting such a system in another way. The Act is to enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement. At the meeting of the committee, the Legislative Bureau reported 4 doubts about the subject matter of the regulation, and I will mark it. As far as the first question is concerned, she's the one... all these comments are really unsubstantiated. The first question raised by the legislator present at the meeting concerns the inclusion of part of the provisions in the inappropriate part of the law. Entries which, in your opinion, the legislator does not have an adaptation character, only material ones, should be included in Chapter 1 of the Act. It is prepared, the legislator has tabled an amendment. The second question also concerns editorial issues, the wording of the article. 4 of this amendment. The third question is, in effect, contrary to the second doubt. In case the committee or the Senate doesn't consider it appropriate to accept this second editorial doubt... The third amendment prepared by the Legislative Office is actually linguistic. It's a matter of naming, and basically its own name, which has been miswritten by the Legislative Bureau. The last question raised by the Legislative Office concerns the date of entry into force of the Act. This is a frequently submitted request by the Legislative Office, a postulate of a 14-day vacatio legis. In this case, the 7-day vacathio legis was proposed by projectors, applicants, Members. I'm going to move on to the effect of the committee's work. During the committee meeting, there was a discussion that I am about to address in a few more words and the result was a vote on 2 proposals. Senator Florek filed a motion to reject the bill. I filed a counterclaim, that is to say, for adoption of a law without amendments. Senator Flork's request did not find the support of the majority of the committees, and my proposal to adopt the law without amendments was accepted by the committee and this is the position the committee is submitting to the High House. Now about the content I'll tell you what. The meeting or the proceedings of the meeting... At the committee meeting, as I mentioned earlier, there was a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Artur Kocik. There was also a representative of the Polish Towns Association, Mr Marek Wójcik, who spoke, of course. He spoke quite critically about the bill, raised various arguments, among others. The fact that the municipalities are introducing provisions of the bill with problems... Anyway, his mouth fell out of his mouth. I'll tell you what. The indication as to the number of municipalities, a percentage indication of the number of municipalities which, I would say, have dealt with and implemented this law, i.e. That's 70%. municipalities and 30% The municipalities are problematic situations and in part, or even entirely, the provisions of the Act have not been introduced. You also pointed out problems related to the fact that one of the parts of the law shortens the deadline for the removal of buildings and buildings from the property area by 31 March. As regards this, the representative of the Polish Towns Association pointed out that the winter period is coming and that there may be technical problems related to the removal of these buildings from the property. Following this was the proposal, the proposal to amend It was not put to the vote in connection with other proposals submitted, i.e. a motion to reject the Act and then to adopt the Act without amending Senator Flork, it was a request to postpone the deadline for the removal of these buildings and buildings from the property area to 18 months. Other senators also spoke. Of course, it was raining on the part of the Senators of the Civic Platform, among others. Senator Flork, but also from your representative of the Association of Polish Cities, arguments about violation of the Constitution. Examples were also given, which were problematic, when various field IPN units differed from person to person, e.g. PPS activists PPS Niedziałkowski was mentioned as one of the cases for which IPN had a bit of a problem with determining whether this person was acceptable when it comes to street naming or not. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, a vote took place and was accepted by the committee. By a majority of 4 votes in favour, with 1 vote against and 1 abstention, the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Therefore, I would like to make such a proposal to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u102	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Czerwiński, Senator Augustyn and Senator Jackowski came forward.]] Senators: Czerwinski, Augustyn and Jackowski. Good. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't bother the senator, but I can see that there is no government representative at this time, so I have to ask you this question. There are 2 concepts in the Act, namely the entry into force of the replacement arrangement and, as is the case here, the inability of that arrangement. The question is, are they kind of identical? Is an order that hasn't come into force yet illegal, whether it's to date... Because we're talking about the same date.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u104	Now, Lord... Oh, good. I will allow you to answer, but first I would like to express my disapproval of a situation where there is no government representative. As I heard, he was at a committee meeting. Well, the committee meeting is very important, but plenary is more important. There is no government representative, and there is no IPN representative that should be. I would like to express my disapproval. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u105	I, Mr. Marshal, may I refer to the words that you have just said that disapproval... More expected, Mr. Marshal. It seems to me that there would be a presence of representatives of applicants. It wasn't a government project, it was a parliamentary project. So that a government representative doesn't have... [[But... there's no...]] ...obligation to be and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u106	Well, you rightly point out that there are no applicants either, but it is a good habit that a government representative is also in the debate of the parliamentary statements, because we do want to know, the senators want to know what the situation will be in terms of the assessment of the MSWiA. And an IPN whose representative could answer questions. I'll be asking you questions, but I don't know if the senator will be able to answer, and I'm sure someone from the IPN would answer. That's all I'm trying to say. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u107	To answer Senator Czerwinski's question, I must first mention that this doubt you have now shown did not appear during the committee meeting. And to be honest, as regards the validity of the replacement order, it is enforceable from the date of entry into force, and it is announced... I'm reading the contents of the bill, but I'm not able to answer your question. As I'm saying, at the committee meeting, this thread wasn't... no one was that, so to speak, so accurate as to detect such potential inaccuracies. It's hard for me to answer that question. Unfortunately, I'm not in a position to doubt you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u108	Thank you, Senator. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u109	Mr. Senator, have you taken into account the numerous complaints made by local governments that the IPN arbitraryly recognizes what is a communist symbol and what is not? Because they get to me at the local government magazine office, who express their surprise and feel helpless. After the adoption of this law, they will have absolutely nothing to say about changing the names of the streets. It's all over the country, the voivodships are retreating... Once this has been introduced, it will prove to be a source of social conflict. Did you consider that? 'Cause, you know, like... In my town, Mr. Senator, on February 14, under 200 years of captivity, partial freedom has returned. And, of course, it's a souvenir of this on February 14th. Turns out it's a symbol of communism. I'm walking down the street of Stalingrad Heroes in Paris. It's okay, there's a square of that name, there were people who didn't belong to anything and died there at that crucial moment in World War II. It turns out that Stalingrad's heroes are communists, and as part of decommunization, you have to change the street name... [[Because it doesn't have old names anymore.]] It's true, a lot of cities don't exist, but it's just history, I mean history. That's why I'm raising this topic because it's very lively in cities, the streets are building local communities, creating some kind of circle with which people identify themselves and very reluctant to look at these changes, not even because I say it's practical, that you have to change documents, etc., just because it's their city and they don't want anyone to tell them how it's supposed to be. I'm asking you to tell me what it was like at the committee meeting on this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u110	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Again, it is difficult for me to answer that question, to enter the IPN position, but I will try to answer it. I'm surprised by your word, Mr. Senator. "Arbitrally." As far as I know, the Institute of National Remembrance is an institution as much as possible established for this purpose, it is a research, scientific institution and draws its judgements in an arbitrary manner in this case, but on the basis of objective considerations. It's not like someone in the IPN is gonna stomp their foot and say it was bad, it was good. The IPN has access to a number of documents, including proprietary collections, which may provide, so to speak, a basis for assessing personal silhouettes of different forms. I will not refer here to Paris because we are in a free country, in our Poland... [[Related to christening...]] I don't know. I can't hear what you're saying. I will not refer to Paris, we live in Poland. The bill is expected by many local governments, by society, a significant part of society. And now let me refer to what you said, this partial freedom. To be honest, I don't really understand what you mean, because I don't know... I feel completely free. You may be part of it. But defending the relics of communism and defending the names of streets, monuments, buildings... Let's focus on the streets. You say people are reluctant. [[I was talking about 1945.]] I picked it up at the committee meeting, too. Besides, I am not the only one who is not present at this very moment, Senator Artur Warzocha, the question of how much people are attached to the street on which they live. Yeah, they're attached, they're so attached. And right away, I'd like to... I'm gonna let you make up for what you said again. It is clear from the Act that there is no need to exchange any documents with regard to citizens, and any legal activities related to real estate, are not charged with fees, are free of charge. So that I would ask for such precision here. And as for the patrons of our streets... Well, there are different patrons. Yeah, I'm gonna... I will use 2 examples and immediately say that in one case people were completely unaware of what street they lived on, and in the other case they were unaware, i.e.. They didn't know the story. They didn't know who that character was. One of the patrons I'm talking about was General Karol Świerczewski. It's a street in my hometown, Bedzin, a very long street. Now her name is changed. And many times I met with the inhabitants of this street, who were appalled, asked: how can you change the street of Świerczewski, General Świerczewski? Well, after a few words explaining how wonderful it is that, so to speak, the life had Gen. Świerczewski, where he came from, what he did in his life and how many Polish heroes he had on his hands, these people withdrew from their position. The more that it was reinforced with declarations that it would not "What follows directly from the law" The need to exchange documents and it will simply not be all awkward for the residents. And a second example about patrons. I live in Będzin myself. I'm moving on, I'll mark it on Skalskiego Street. And to be honest, people's ignorance was that people, the people of this street, It's a big street. They were convinced it was a Skalski pilot. Well, they just didn't notice that it was Józef Skalski, a KPP activist at the Paris mine. And there was this procedure from the city council, which also did not want to change the streets in my town, that it was simply changed its name and changed its patronage to Stanisław Skalski. And now people actually know that they live on Skalski Stanisława Street, already this time the pilot. And two more words. I'll let me reconnect, because it's different... Probably such questions will also be raised, and at the committee's meeting we discussed that 70% local governments have completed the statutory provisions and 30% have completed the statutory provisions. It didn't. And here the reasons for default are different. They may not actually lie on the side of the local government, they do not always have to lie on the side of the local government. There could be problems, problems. But these are not unsolvable situations. I know that some local governments have been dragging away for a very long time with the start of a law that has entered into force. They said we still have time, we still have time. Well, and then it turned out that some issues need to be actually consulted with the Institute of National Remembrance and that the time needed for these consultations may in some cases be extended. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out, because changing street names... or maybe next time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u112	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have such a question for the senator: doesn't the senator think that if it weren't for the obstruction of certain local governments who consciously wanted to play the whole situation politically... Well, you have to put in place a law that goes beyond what we did when we passed this bill and when there were different discussions... At that time it seemed that in the original form in which this law came out, all procedures were provided, clear, is an obvious calendar. But it turned out that what we thought was so clear wasn't so clear to everyone, and that's why we have to proceed with such a detailed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u114	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll answer that question. I'll tell you. I'm gonna walk into the applicants' shoes again. Yes, it was, Mr. Senator, that at the time of this bill, everyone was convinced that the law was well written, and that there is a will from local governments that see a changing reality, they see especially in the last 2 years, as certain history cards are discovered... they are perhaps not so much discovered as drawn out, so to speak, very high cards of history or forgotten, or those which have been gently covered with dust. But it actually happened in many cases with the obstruction of local governments. I myself know a few examples of such obstructions from my constituency, where actually local governments did everything to keep these street names from changing. They used a public consultation, even held referendums on what inhabitants would like to name the street, or leave the previous patron, who is in the opinion of the IPN such a figure that he is not suitable for patronage of streets, squares or squares. That's all I can answer. Oh, Mr. Senator, one more thing. I'll tell you that obstruction with obstruction, but in my hometown, there was a situation that actually the street, I can give you a name, the Revolutionists, on one of the big settlements in my city, has ceased to be the Street of Revolutionists, and it has become Józef Oleksego Street, which is in the opinion of the IPN as a non-controversial figure. Yeah, that's right. Thank you. [[Uncontroversial?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u116	Good. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Uncontroversial.]] ...but it's about that Józef Oleksy who was Prime Minister. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] I have a second question for you, Senator. You said there were doubts about Mieczysław Niedziałkowski. Can you tell us who reported it and where it was? Where were those controversies? Mieczysław Niedziałkowski was... [[PPS activist.]] Every man of basic education should know that he was a PPS activist of the Polish Socialist Party. He had nothing to do with communism. He was shot by the Germans in June 1940 in Palmirach. Therefore, Because I find this kind of controversy really outrageous, I would like some information. Was that a controversy at the committee meeting or something? [[May I?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To answer your question... It was a case reported by a representative of the Polish Towns Association, your first and last name let me see Mark Wójcik. Yeah, it was at the committee meeting. This was one example of the fact that it happened, so to speak, to some strange situation and misunderstandings between local governments and IPN. The example that... I can't verify it, but I suppose that's an actual example. One of the branches of IPN, unless I am mistaken, Mazowiecki IPN, Mieczysława Niedziałkowski did not put on the list, on the list of names subject to change, and in turn, if I am not mistaken, Lublin IPN Because this issue seems to have been about Radom, he listed it on the list. And if I'm well aware, if I remember correctly, then if there's a character on the IPN list, then the local government on its own initiative performed... In any event, my own-initiative self-government has requested clarification from the IPN. If there was a situation that one of the regional divisions of the IPN accepted Mr Mieczysław Niedziałkowski as a patron of the street and the other did not, then it is a matter of reporting this and explaining between the local government and the IPN. Like I said, an example... I suspect that this was the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u118	Good. Mr. Senator, more people willing to ask questions... Oh, and Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u119	Mr. Senator, in the light of what I understand, however, was the subject of the committee's deliberations, because you are quoting even some data related to the implementation of this law, you do not think that there were such voices at the committee's meeting that, however, this procedure adopted in the act should be enriched with some kind of appeal, which would make it possible to enter into dialogue with the IPN and try to find some consensus that would satisfy the local authorities and fulfill the ratio legis of the law? I think it's possible to do this. I'm asking because they're being taken. Just like the senator said. Attempts to avoid or play appearances, etc., bypassing the bill. That's not necessary. It seems to me that we would be able to propose legal solutions that would open the door to dialogue and allow to achieve statutory goals without social conflicts, such as those we have seen recently from Katowice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u120	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as far as Katowice is concerned, this is it. I don't think there's a good example, because there's a change of patron there. This is exactly the case where society insists that it wants a patron who doesn't necessarily, so to speak, has a glorious past, but has always been. I think that's the case. And in my opinion, Mr. Senator, first of all, determining a replacement voivodeship is such a... [[Order.]] Yeah, it's an order. This is the form, I think, final. Nobody's gonna... I don't think the voivodships use this tool too often. These will be individual cases, in fact, when there will be no other methods. I would also like to draw attention to one thing, that there is an art. 6b. I can read it:. In the case of the name being given under the replacement arrangement referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 and Article 1 Article 6 (6) (a) 2 its amendment by the local authority unit or the relationship referred to in Article. 4, requires the prior consent of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the competent local voivode. I think that's the area to talk about. I do not think that the voivode to whom representatives of the local government will come, or the IPN to whom representatives of the local government will come, in case there are controversy or doubts about the character, possibly about the proposed character... 'Cause it's just a little bit of a play-by-play. The governor may change the name of the street by proxy, but the city council or the council of the municipality in the current form of the law may change that name again, right? He can change her again, can't he? And I don't think that the voivode or the IPN in justified cases would be, so to speak, against, as regards some area for discussion and conversation with local governments, because nobody wants to use this tool. I assure you... Besides, Senator Florek, a former Wielkopolska voivode, probably also realizes that such extraordinary tools, which are very rare and generally reluctant to use... Because it doesn't bring anybody... It's more of a problem for the voivodship. But he must have such a tool, since there are local governments who do not want to comply with the law. That's the kind of tool that has to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u122	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question: was there a speech at the committee meeting, what could be the number of cases in which the voivode's order had not been settled within 30 days of its date of issue? Because, as I understand it, it is now proposed in the bill, and so it will be done on the expense of the local government. [[Yes.]] But is there any statistics on this? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? There are known accidents from Warsaw, which were particularly loud, appeared in the media, etc. But I suppose the scale of such different phenomena is much larger. Was there a number at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u124	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Unfortunately, Senator, I'll disappoint you. Unfortunately, that number didn't die. There was no such number given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is not, in quotes, a party to this law, because it is not an applicant, the applicant is a group of Members. Besides, and above all, that was not the question at the meeting. None of the senators asked such a question, so that, unfortunately, they didn't... I also know isolated cases from the Silesian voivodship, which I can operate here. The senator knows the Warsaw cases... [[Mazowieckie.]] ...Mazowieckie... no, Warsaw, Mazowieckie, due to the mandate being carried out. So that no, such data was not, so to speak, published during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. There's no government representative, so I'm not asking... [[Voices from the hall: You're the minister.]] You're the minister. There you go... [[Voice from the room: But not to this point.]] [[Voice from the room: No. That's not the point.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: To the Excise Tax Act.]] Excuse me? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: I to the fourth point...]] To point four: the Act amending the excise duty Act... And I thought you were volunteering for this point. No? Good. So that there is no government representative. And there's no I.P.N. representative, so we're not gonna ask. We don't have that option. I'm informing you... I'm sorry. I read the formula for a government representative. Let's get to the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is appropriate to make a few comments when considering this law. The first note is addressed to the addressees, to those self-governments who are resistant, so I would call them Who are trying in any way to avoid or delay the operation of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, you've had one. I'm talking about local governments. From the turn of 1989, let's say, from June 1989 to April 2016, 27 years old to bring the naming of their squares and streets to order. If you didn't, the Polish Parliament gave you a chance. You could have done it in a year. You've had an extra year for this. You could have done it in a year for free. 'Cause all the proceedings, I remind you, were free of charge. In addition, without any cost to its citizens. Because it wasn't like Senator Augustine said. All documents shall remain valid regardless of the address of residence, i.e. The name of the street. You can't go out more than that. So the question is, what's the big deal? The question is simple and the answer is simple. Just part of the Polish government... This is very interesting and it would be worth to say which are local governments. Who, for example? rules cities such as Warsaw, Gdansk, Olsztyn, Bydgoszcz, Łódź, Opole? Which self-governments have problems assessing communism? This is a very simple question to which there is a simple answer. It is a good thing that politicians voted mostly in favour of this law, but the lower level activists, as you can see, have reservations about this and do not want to accept it. Of course, you can use the opinion of the inhabitants here, but I think it would be much better to explain why, for example. Mr Świerczewski should not be the patron of the street, not warm the mood, warm the atmosphere and often lie about it. I know these cases from my territory, where, first of all, it was never tried to execute this law at all. We didn't even have any consultations, but they said right away: we won't do it, let the voivode do it. And second of all, as the voivode started to do it, there was a sudden start of lamentation and shouting: "Oh, what does he do, and without consulting! It was the municipalities that had one year to consult. The governor doesn't have to consult anyone because he's a supervisory authority. You go where the communes don't do well, whether it's on purpose or because they're just... well, not really rude. There's no other way to call it that. The state must enter because, fortunately, we still have the uniformity of the state enshrined in the constitution, which you so often wave. Ladies and gentlemen, the lie is That the voivod should consult with someone. Well, he should consult, of course, but with the IPN in which he should consult. It is a requirement because it is neither the voivode nor any politician who decides, but the body that is the most predisposed to it. The IPN has sources, has objective scientists and is able to determine whether the given name, given event promotes communism or another totalitarian system or not. What other authority in Poland could say that? How about the European Union? The question is: why some local governments I've already mentioned some of them. And the media accompanying them heat up the atmosphere? Well, they're doing it to raise a political dispute where this dispute shouldn't be. This is either childish or deliberate behavior, which will result in a political dispute. And in this particular case, this dispute should not be conducted. Maybe that's how it's gonna affect those local activists? Let them come to their senses, let them not lie to people, that the voivode needs to consult with someone. And so some of the voivodships were so concerned that after the 2nd September of this year, when the communes really had nothing to talk about, because there was a surrogate order in force, they tried to agree with some municipalities, they went out to meet them, they entered into consultative mode, they waited for the resolutions of the commune, which were not there. not only in September, but even in October and November. You can't be more permissive, and now you hear no and no. This law is to prevent this, to show that you are a country and that at these moments when the government is unable to manage or, as I said, it does not want to manage, it does its prerogatives. That's it. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one more question, the question of undermining the authority of IPN in the media, but also by local authorities, by the municipal authorities. Why is the IPN arbitrary in this regard? Because that's what the legislator gave him. All authorities act under the law, that is, they do what the law allows them to do. It's different with the citizens. Citizens can do anything so that they don't have the right to do so. The IPN works under the law, that's it, that's it. And three last remarks. The first concerns procedures. Please note, gentlemen, that we have not anticipated such an obstruction, such a resistance of matter, and we have in a sense to complete the procedure. This is a very important issue. If procedures . Procedures by us here passed They include entities or addressees who are reluctant to do so must be brought to an end. This procedure for giving a different street name must be completed and it is these rules that bring it to an end. Point two, I think it's much more serious and that she's gonna be waiting for us here. Well, this bill only covers the matter of naming objects, in particular streets. So it actually includes this easier part of the law, which is easier to implement, which consists in: firstly, the adoption of the commune council, secondly, changes in the relevant registers, thirdly, the tightening of another tablet. It's not that hard to do. But let me remind you that we've been updating the bill. and in part it also includes commemorations, monuments celebrating the totalitarian system, in particular communism. And since there were problems in the case of naming the streets, which I said It is easier to change, it may be the same problems in the case of monuments, because this monument will have to be physically removed. And who knows if the Senate should not now see the problems some local governments pose in implementing this easier part of the law themselves, on the basis of a legislative initiative, to amend the law on the removal of monuments from public space, i.e. the latter elements of the domination of the Red Army and the Soviet State over us. This, perhaps, is a task for the Senate, because the Senate was also the initiator of the main law, the mother's law. And the third point, namely the wording of other totalitarian regimes. It was not explained in the bill. We're talking about communism, it's pretty easy to define, but we're talking about that, I mean. Trying to find the right definition of this name, we charge IPN. And this IPN in the case of these other totalitarian systems and symbolic commemorations associated with them will have to show a great deal of knowledge... And unfortunately, he will take responsibility for himself. The question is whether, in the case of this monumental amendment, the completion of the procedure, but as regards the monuments As it is right now, when it comes to street names Nor should we define which other totalitarian systems we want to remove from the IPN... or actually establish a narrower boundaries for it not to be discussed and again challenged by reluctant local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u128	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here we see how much this law on decommunization of streets Because, in total, this is the common name used, although the official name is much longer, it was needed. I remember this wave of discussion in the previous Senate term, in this Senate term, because this law was born in a long legislative process and basically from us, from the Senate, came out. 'Cause it was originally a senate initiative. In such a form, I would say, after consensus... It turned out that the naive faith of those who sincerely thought that in the course of the political and political changes that took place in Poland after 1989, the public reality, the environment, naming, various attributes and some dependencies, roots in the previous system naturally, smoothly and harmoniously will disappear from themselves. I will remind you of Professor Strzembosz's famous name at the beginning of the change after 1989, that the judge's environment will clear itself. It was kind of... And I believe that this was the statement of an honest man who thought it was natural that if someone was stained and served some totalitarian system, especially in Stalin's or post-Stalin's times, he would necessarily withdraw himself from public life later, because these are just some elementary behavior. It didn't turn out that way. It didn't turn out the same with decommunicating the streets. That's why the bill was needed. But it is likely that few of us in this House have imagined how deeply this problem lies. 'Cause now, here we are in some local governments. I will not mention whom we have witnessed, here is the situation that the devil dressed himself in an ornat and a tail for the Holy Mass calling. In a very simple way, or in such a way that local governments, which have huge budgets, have their legal advisers, have their offices, have been unable to implement a fairly simple bill for a year. It turned out to be an impossible situation. At the moment when the voivodships began to implement the law, using those powers to which they have legal rights, it turned out that this was an assassination attempt on democracy, it was an assassination on the free will of the inhabitants who did not have the opportunity to express themselves, and various kinds of allegations were formulated. It was not enough that there were allegations that it was simply extraordinary that it was a total attack on self-government and the right of residents to make up about the area in which they live. I was consciously asking the Senator rapporteur if we had any statistics during the debate. Because I know this situation from Mazowsze, not only from Warsaw, but also from various cities and towns in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Already at the previous Senate meeting, I asked a detailed question in the form of a statement to your Mazowieckie Voivodeship, how many such replacement arrangements were issued just in Mazowsze. I don't have an answer yet, but I know from the media that your voivodeship's surrogate arrangements were a lot, and often in such cities, that, to tell you the truth, it surprised me that this was the kind of action that had to be taken there. High Izbo, this is such a situation that it has actually exceeded our expectations, ours as legislators, as legislators, when we tried this original law. But we see that this resistance is really very deep, and if we knew exactly the map, we knew where this resistance and, let's say, questioning possibilities, the competence of the voivode and protesting against the philosophy of the law itself, are the greatest, I think we would have interesting statistical material to show how it translates into a map of political colors in local authorities. I suppose that would be the case, I have no evidence, therefore I do not offer... I am not talking about specific environments here, nor am I talking about specific local governments and specific parts of Poland. In any case, it is good that this law is that this law clarifies that this law puts a dot over.i, because where it seemed obvious that it was obvious and this dot does not need, it turns out that not only one dot, but even 3 dots need to be placed... [[Senator Grzegorz Bierecki: Exclamation point.)]] ...maybe an exclamation point so there's no doubt. That is why I support this law and I hope that it will come into force as soon as possible. Finally, at least one sphere of Polish public life will be dealt with in the way it should have been dealt with long, long time ago, so at the threshold of change after 1989. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u130	Thank you. Senator Piotr Flork, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to... The rapporteur, Senator Grabowski, is not here right now, but if he's listening to us... I would like to thank him for his report, because this is another report from the committee meeting which I attended, which really corresponds to what happened at the meeting, in detail and in detail. You have to follow the senator's pattern. And if any of your senators are preparing a report, please really consult with the senator because he's preparing it well. [[He's probably listening.]] About Senator Czerwinski's statement... Well, Mr. Senator, I'm pretty sure you've never been in the local government, never worked there, never had any contact with the councillors. Yeah, I'm pretty sure about that. Senator Jackowski just said this: I don't know, I have no evidence of local governments, but I have suspicions about which local governments have this obstruction. Senator, ask for a list and check it out, because I'm sure it doesn't have any colors, it's coming from something quite different. First of all, it is a parliamentary project. I'm a little surprised here because it was our initiative, the Senate, we voted in favour of this bill, the first one, the second one corrected. Why are our Members now correcting this bill, why we are not doing this? Us alone, if necessary? I'm a little surprised about that. And let me remind you that we were all behind this bill. Another issue is realization. The bill is short. Well, the title is very long, there's a problem to read the title, but the bill itself is only three pages. So it seemed that she was uncomplicated. But there were deadlines here. What you're saying is that since 1990... of course, local governments could change and so on.; there were deadlines, there was a deadline of the year for changing the names of the streets. And now the 70%. 30%... it's different than you say, it's not like that. I was at the committee meeting, too. Well, it's about 70%. local governments changed the names of these streets or objects they were supposed to change. It's not like 30% at all when it comes to self-government... If we count the number of municipalities in Poland, it turns out that it is not so that the 30% It didn't do anything. The point is, they did it in 70%, because they did it in simple cases. Let's say they asked for something, and the IPN answered. About something that was simple, for example. the case of Karol Świerczewski, it is here that the matter is clear, obvious and there is no discussion. In turn with these 30% cases that have been involved involve difficult decisions and doubts of local governments, residents, and need an opinion on IPN. The IPN, of course, was to give an opinion, but local authorities have often been waiting for this opinion for a long time. It's not that simple, because there's a long list, so then the local governments had very little time to realize it. And there's been some controversy here. IPN on one voivodship said that a person could not be, and in the case of another voivodship it turned out that it could be. There are plenty of examples like that. And if you're in a hurry, then you're in a lot of trouble. Well, in Poznan, the Greater Poland Voivode named the street... I think it was February 23rd, and he gave her, as I recall, the name of Kazimierz Sporny Street. It was recently, November. And the voivode had to change its order, because the city council, as it turned out, had already given the name of another street in Poznań in June, so it was already such a street. So you need time here too, you need to check, consult, not act so quickly, quickly, just to change those names. That's why I, among others. I offered to extend it a little longer, for example. about the next six months. Nothing would have happened, and it would have given local governments time, because they, self-governments, have to talk to the residents. The fact that you don't need to exchange IDs is obvious, but because of the street change, they're different... Well, there are companies there, and it's also about the habits of people who live out there, of older people who come and protest. Well, what's left, that tip, it's very difficult, which is why you should give yourself some time. Not much, there's another rule in this bill that's very disturbing. Besides, the Senator rapporteur has already talked about this. As regards the removal of monuments, countries, the deadline has been changed so that these monuments should be removed by 31 March 2018. Well, there's gonna be a problem again. There will be many local governments who will not remove these monuments by March 31, because this is a winter term, and depending on what it is, how big it is, you have to find the right company to remove it, you have to develop this area, sow grass, do something else, etc. And by that time until March 31, there is very little. And we're making it complicated ourselves. Instead of quietly ending this issue, such a change of law only provokes some complications in local governments. Let's look at it from our point of view, but let's look at it from the local government's point of view. Remember what it looks like on the other side. You don't have to rush so fast, because what you've done so far is really much, and what's left, it's easy to catch up for the next six months. After all, the anniversary, the century, will be November 11th. There is still time until November, so I do not understand why we must remove these monuments by the end of March. Can't we just give it time until the end of June so that it can all be removed quietly? Well, I'm not going to quote that at the moment, but when it comes to legal changes, they're going to make it all go fast. If the voivode issues such a replacement order, it is to enter into force immediately so that it can be implemented. Well, that's what it all comes down to in these regulations, though they're all... This can be discussed because it is the task of the municipalities themselves We've already talked about this. But it all comes down to the fact that we want to accelerate as much as possible by applying substitute rules that are implemented from the date of entry into force. Yeah, sure, you can do that. The only question is: why? Therefore, my request at the committee meeting was to reject this change and so that, because it was a Senate project, we would quickly improve this bill in the Senate, so that we would not return to it in a few months. 'Cause I'm pretty sure if she comes into force like this, she'll come into effect after March. And we want to close this topic before 11 November. He'll be back in the Senate anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u132	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Czerwiński in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u133	Mr. Marshal, one sentence à about local government internship: 4 years in the municipality, 3 years in the county, 8 years in the local government. [[Well, then I'm surprised you did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members very much for preparing this novel, which will speed up the implementation of the intentions we had in the Senate, in order to get rid of the public space of names and symbols, which are symbols of the enslavement of Poland, which remind us of that time and which were to commemorate and honor those who had served and served a foreign power and who have enslaved Poland throughout this period since 1944. So thank you very much to Members for preparing and quickly carrying out this novel by the Sejm. I hope that we, too, in the Senate, will vote in favour of this change and it will come into force quickly. She is very needed because we naively believed that everyone who has a Polish heart would want to get rid of these names commemorating people who did not have Polish hearts, but it turns out that we have local governments, which for various reasons I'd mention two basics. They do not comply with this law. So in some sense this bill is an execution. It aims to speed up the enforcement of the law, to ensure that local governments do not have the right to ignore Parliamentary laws. After all, we are dealing with a situation in which local governments exist in Poland, which ignore the applicable law. Why are they ignoring them? For two reasons. The first is what is shown in the example of Warsaw, where we have civil platform activists who are trying to find another field of conflict with the current government. And the second group, perhaps more important, are those who defend the names of the streets, monuments commemorating the heroes of the previous system, because they really defend their own resumes. They defend themselves, their belongings, the memory of their belonging to those organizations that served to oppress Poles. Today I was outraged to read information about the decision of Chojnice's local government, who decided to sue... refusing to accept a change in the name of the street of some communist hero, I do not remember his name at the moment, the hero, Rotmaster Pilecki. And this is the second time that's happened. They're suing this decision. Why? Perhaps, as journalists say, the reason is that Chojnic City Council President is a former Armenian and his colleagues have similar CVs. That's what the media said. So there are also things that happen that we are dealing with some resistance to the bill. After all, which we accepted here, in the Senate, almost unanimously, if I remember correctly the results of the vote, i.e. with resistance resulting from the fact that there are people who defend their own resumes, and therefore oppose the entry into force of this law. Finally, there's Senator Flork's request that we put it down, wait, because it's winter, and in winter it's impossible to undress a monument... Mr. Senator, there was a January uprising in this country, so you can see that there are important things that can be done in the winter. And the Poles showed that if they wanted to, they would. It's just that there's no desire. So the voivodeships must work. On this occasion, I thank the voivods very much for freeing Poles from the pain of life on the streets, whose names are ashamed to pronounce. Yeah, it's a shame to say it. Here, in conclusion, I will remind you of a wonderful anecdote about Zbigniew Herbert, who lived in Sopot on Haffnera Street, i.e. Now it's Haffnera Street, but when he lived in Sopot, it was called Bieruta. And when he was asked what street he lived in in Sopot, he answered, "Shame to say." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u136	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u137	Senator Bierecki reminded me of the time when I started building a social services house on Bieruta Street. [[Voices from the hall: Shame to say.]] Shame to say, yes. Today is November 11th, which we say proudly. When I became a local governmentman, my city had many streets whose names clearly symbolized communist times. And to be honest, when I was partly responsible for what was going on in the city, because I had the majority, unlike the left-wing president, it was often like this. So I confirm your words, Mr. Senator Bierecki, that some street names have been defended, and I have tried very hard to change them. It was because it was such a group, with such roots. Of course, it was also taken advantage of the fact that this involved some difficulties, which are now not in this law. I, too, was in favour of this bill, but today, when I look at how it works, I think it's in dispute situations. And those aren't missing. It would be worth thinking about this dialogue with the inhabitants. Because we force local governments to do this dialogue, to dialogue with the inhabitants, to dialogue in the city council, to dialogue with the inhabitants of these streets. It's solved differently. In my town, there were some alternative proposals, some different ones to choose from, and the residents could speak in polls, and it was generally successful. But there were also a few points of dispute, and I mentioned this in my question, where it was difficult to find such arguments directly. The Voivode finally imposed its solutions and it is unfortunately contested. What situation do we put the city's government in now? Well, he's between a hammer and an aisle. The residents are organizing, the residents are not willing, they are putting pressure on the local government, which... Well, what's he gonna do? It seems to me, however, that there is such a rich palette of various offers to choose from, that this dialogue could be conducted, not a decision: we will call it yes and the end. This isn't a dialogue. The power of the state is not that society is under pressure. That's a misconception. The strength of the state is that it respects the citizen, counts for his opinion and seeks to guarantee freedom. This is a strong country. I don't think you understand exactly what should be done here. That is why I believe that this proposal by Senator Flork is worth considering, and that we, as the Senate, as co-hosts of this law, this case, perhaps in the committee of government, perhaps together with the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, should try to propose solutions that will lead to a goal without causing conflicts. That's what I'd be appealing for. Even though you may have pushed through these rules, perhaps the same, I think Senator Bierecki's already signaled it. There will be cases in the courts, and so it will continue, because this way it cannot be done well. Remember, when we talk about street names, we're always in the realm of symbols. These are sensitive places. And if something is done against people, against the symbolism they think is the most important, then probably sooner or later there will be an attempt to reverse the situation. It would not be good for us to provoke such situations to be done by the court, or for any change in options or situations to happen immediately. We would like this change to be symbolic and permanent. If that weren't the case... It seems to me that it is as with the honorable citizens of the city as with this resolution concerning the 500th anniversary of Protestantism, namely, there are moments that it is better to put something aside in time than to force some symbolism that others do not accept, because it is very annoying. I therefore appeal for the support of Senator Flork's amendment... [[She's not here, I haven't.]] [[There's no such thing.]] There isn't? Excuse me. [[Then we'll take...]] [[No, he didn't.]] [[Go to the office, you'll have time to fold.]] But you didn't? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, I'm sorry. If I knew, I'd fold it. Maybe I can make it, because Senator Czarnobaj is still in the voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u138	Thank you, Senator. Then take a card and put it in writing. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that Senator Augustine will be able to make this amendment. And I, inspired by Senator Bierecki's speech, would like to say this: Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a city which is a city with a problem. This is a great social and historical problem, but the most important thing is our approach to what was our history. We dealt with this problem in 1990. And now the IPN has not brought any attention to the streets in the city of Kwidzyn. [[Exactly. And you can.]] 'Cause we thought... you could, I'll get to that. We felt that it was not appropriate for the city to have as patrons of the streets persons who signed up, to say the least, unworthy in the history of the Republic of Poland. But I'm a long way from what you've presented here, Mr. Senator. It's the sharing that these guys are good, and those guys are bad, and there was somebody in ORMO, and this is definitely those guys from the Platform... That's what it sounded like, that's what you said. I would ask you very much: although in this one matter let us reach a political compromise that we will not indicate that there is a Kowalski in the village of X and we must, to put it mildly, brand it here, from this bleacher. I'd rather, that's why, prolong this process. Why in my beloved city, where I was vice mayor and mayor, it all went so far, can you say, painlessly? Of course, one thing is that it was easier to do this in 1990 than it is now, because time is important here. But there was one important point: we set up a team that didn't consist of local politicians, that is, councilmen. At the head of this team was a historian who prepared information on why these names should be changed. There have been debates, suggestions, why this proposal, not another... And to explain to society at all, which is very important, why Jan Kowalski, whose life has some dark sides, should not be the patron of the street or have a monument. It's not, Mr. Senator, it's so obvious to everyone. That is why these discussions, negotiations and other elements are important to convince people. Because when is true freedom and democracy? When people have in their heart and understand what we want to implement through a decree, resolution or any other decision. That's why it's important that this bill, in which it was here in the Senate, agree on the direction... I think it's worth thinking about prolonging this process. Not to give arguments to people I'm convinced of, I hope. They don't understand the process a little bit, just so the local government can have a little more time for what it means to set up teams, to talk. And if you don't reach that goal of eliminating names of people who shouldn't be worshiped by the name of a street, a square or a square or a monument, then there's a sharper action. Therefore, I urge you to extend this period and urge the local governments to sit down and talk again. Because sooner or later these processes in Poland will have to take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. Senator Ryszard Bonisławski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm so short. Czerwiński's friend actually called the Łódź board here, saying we were so bad. I can't agree with that. Those who work in this city right now Whether they have a sign of Platforms, PiS or others... most of them, of us, used to strike, fought to make things change here. The boat is a very complicated city when it comes to history. Now these changes... I am in favour, and I voted, and I also tried once on the street naming committee. I wasn't a city councilman, but I was a social factor in this council to get to the bottom of things. But there are controversial matters. And, for example, At the request of a right-wing journalist writing in the Aspekt, such a Catholic writing, Karol Badziak, one of the streets of Łódź was named after the first secretary of Tatarkówna. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1980... excuse me, in 1992 or 1993... He thought she'd still have a statue. She built the Great Theatre in Łódź, 2 museums, etc. She's never been to Moscow for any training. I think she belonged to the old KPPR staff. Well, right now she's gonna lose her street. It falls in Łódź, as far as the name is concerned, Victory Square. People used to be happy that Germany was defeated, and we're losing Victory Square. You don't know why it's supposed to be like this... Because that's what somebody decided. Eugeniusz Ajennakel street is also falling out. It was a man who had been a PPS activist all his life who opposed the merger with PPR. And then it was removed from all functions. We're removing the name of this street today. Well, someone here didn't really know the story. And at the opposite pole, I can put what I think about this issue. Our voivode, whom I very much value and respect, was placed in a very awkward situation because he was given a name in the IPN: Kazimierz Kowalski Street. Here Kowalski was spoken of symbolically today, but Kazimierz Kowalski was with us, who before the war was creating a fascist party of Poland, he encouraged crime. Well, now the voivode must have pulled out of it. But it was in the IPN that there was a generational change, people appeared. I'm not gonna use words like that here that might put them in some kind of emotional state. Who don't deserve it. We have an environment of historians in Łódź, who are also embarrassed to look at certain procedures. So don't condemn Łódź like that, because I think there are similar problems in other cities. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u142	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Gawel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry I'm taking the floor because I promised my wife I'd be back before Christmas sooner to help her. But I have to speak, I have to at least say a few sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, the case has been going on since 1990. We know very well that all this has not been handled properly. I'll remind you again. Because the discussion on this subject has already been here, one time in the Senate this case is being discussed In 1918, the case was resolved quickly in three cases. They understood that public space and communications that come from the names of monuments, street names, also build some identity, build awareness and knowledge. That's why it was quick. After all, in Warsaw there was the Council of Alexandria, which they undressed, in Saski Square, right? With us in Wielkopolska, all Prussian traces were also quickly, very quickly eliminated. And it would be good if it was done in 1990. There were various committees made up of historians who dealt with it, that's true, but it wasn't all settled. And it's not like the story is that the Red Army is trespassing... i.e. Of course it's a story, objectively speaking, but we can't commemorate it. I will remind here and Senator Augustine, and senators from Pomerania or Wielkopolska, that, thank God, no street names associated with the history of the Third Reich or the Prussian state have been preserved. It's the right thing to do. That's what the sovereign state does. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as to the imposition by the IPN and by the voivode in the order of surrogate naming, it doesn't look like what you think. I spoke to the Provincial Office today because I asked about the streets in my town, in Gniezno, whose names are to be changed. It's about 4 streets: 2 street names are obvious to change, and 2 street names are more controversial. They receive an opinion from the IPN, but this opinion is subject to further consultation. We have such an example in Gniezno. During the communist regime, Tadeusz Sobieralski was the president of the city council, who was judged very positively by society. And it turns out that the IPN did not give an unambiguous opinion about it, even though it was in the communist period, however looking at it, a representative of power. But notice that we have e.g. Roosevelt Street. But nobody's gonna touch it, and I'm gonna make it short, so I don't prolong it. As in Tehran and Yalta, he listened to Jan Karski... We've had an example lately... This is when he told him what was happening in Poland, what the Germans were doing with the Jews, he told him what the population of horses in Poland was like, that we might need help. These are also problems. And now we've been raising awareness of society for 27 years, and we're not able to make people aware. And why do some city authorities push the decision to the voivodeships? Well, out of convenience. Because that's the problem. I don't want to know if it's an epigony of the old system or not anymore. It's just that there's a problem, because the change itself... Well, people don't want change very much. They get used to it sometimes, and they don't know what street they live on. We educate 27 years and are unable to educate, so unfortunately, but sometimes you have to perform surgical cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u144	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal, I'm short, because you can see that we agree on the purpose of this bill. Well, we want those names to disappear commemorating false heroes. So my request, to appeal to the Senators of the Civic Platform, to influence the Civic Platform Councillors in various local governments, so that these councillors do not vote to challenge the decision of the voivods to the courts, because it does not serve to achieve this goal. If you really want these names to disappear from the Polish public space, tell your local authorities to withdraw the applications they have already submitted to the courts, or not to submit them, because these proposals do not serve to achieve the goal. That's the request. If we look at the efficiency of the courts, then... dear Senators, if these requests of your councilmen are voted out, if they do not withdraw from the courts, then the 100th anniversary of the independent Republic of Poland will be celebrated on the streets of communist heroes. I don't think we want that. Therefore, only my appeal to the Senators of the Civic Platform, who can influence their local structures to abandon these completely unnecessary actions to withdraw these requests from the courts or not submit them. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u146	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's terrible that there's no representative of the IPN, and there's no representative of the Ministry. Because you need to know how wide the problem is to discuss. We don't know how wide the problem is. Well, there are no representatives of IPN, and you could ask some questions about possibly heroes, i.e. those whose names appear on street signs, and for whom there is no clear opinion. I'll tell you what names it might be. Mr. Senator, my previous speaker, thank you very much. It's good that when you classified and talked about two groups that resisted a change of nomenclature, you included me in the other group. I understand that this isn't about relationships, but there are reasons... [[Senator Grzegorz Bierecki: Local governments have classified...)]] Oh, they classified... Okay. And I think... yeah, yeah. I believe that these appeals are important, but we all appeal to those on whom we have influence. This does not mean that, as a result of any appeals, questions need to be asked that need to be considered. The IPN in this shape has no good position and no authority. And that's wrong because the IPN's opinion should be clear. But, let's assume, I know about the discussion in Lublin about the street name. A representative of the IPN, a scientist from the IPN, one of the scientists of the IPN, which now, apparently, was to become head of the IPN, but was not due to the assessment of the situation of the Jews in the ghetto at the beginning of the war... Well, when it was a question of giving the street the name of the commander of the Świętokrzyskie NSZ Brigade, he accepted it. To me, the thing is absolutely unacceptable, because the NAS under the command of this officer led the Holy Cross Brigade with the Germans and with the help of the Germans. And it's not just that. But the Germans, probably Abwehr, threw five soldiers of this Holy Cross Brigade in the back of the front. This kind of cooperation should for part of the IPN just cross the possibility of giving the street the name of this particular hero. For parts of the IPN, because another scientist from the IPN, Mr Maciej Sobieraj, whom I know from the opposition of the 1970s in Lublin, opposed it. And therefore, he had to be rescued before he was removed from the IPN. A decision has been made to remove it. Under the influence of protests, including my protest, the president of the IPN withdrew. But it seems that it is not true what I described as a scandal, that the possibility of giving Mieczysław Niedziałkowski, a PPS activist who died in 1940 in Palmirach was questioned... He was not killed, he was shot in Palmirach together with a group of Polish intelligence in AB action. I contacted Maciej Sobieraj to find out what the situation was. I don't think that's exactly what happened. Maybe some other IPN... But when I heard about it, I took it for real information. That's because I don't trust the IPN. And now it's about heroes or anti-heroes. Some of the names are clear. But for example. The poet Władysław Broniewski supported communist power all the time here, and was arrested, was in prison, was arrested by the Russians and was in prison in Lviv, previously associated with the socialist movement rather, maybe communist, and before that he was in legions. Yes? What about the other writer Iwaszkiewicz, the great writer? I mean, with power all the time. He was never part of the party, but he was still in power. You can name a lot more names like that. So there's a problem with those names. And there is also a problem with that, ladies and gentlemen, that by changing the street names relating to people whose names should not appear in these names, the voivods propose a party or try to force them to accept too fresh heroes. And they're resisting because they're too fresh heroes. And of course this is read as a certain political action, done by means of this law, not as an action of cleaning out of these communist raids. I won't go back to it, but there was also a situation before this bill that the name of Red Wierchy Street was questioned. Well, these situations are extreme, proving... Yeah, so was Niedziałkowskiego Street. If that was actually true, then it's quite... [[I don't think that's possible.]] Possibly, Mr. Senator, these things happen, they happen and they happen. Some of those whose names are still in the street names had a more complicated resume than we have here. It's more complicated than that. So partly with this system, then against this system or vice versa. Partly against the system and then vice versa. Well, like the colonel, the hero at the time of the uprising... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...Warsawski, Radosław Mazurkiewicz, who after the prison, because he was arrested, went to work with the authorities and tried to... Well, he was trying to get these people out of the woods or out of the conspiracy, but so they wouldn't become soldiers cursed. How are we judging this right now? Right? Unrightfully? I'm showing here how complicated the fate of this generation that was before us is. And that's what you have to take. not to accuse the local governments of sabotaging, because these people are in charge here, not others, that the Platform is in charge, so the local governments are sabotaging. Well, from what Senator Jackowski said, it was different in different places. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators: Piotr Florek, Mieczysław Augustyn, Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... Is the government representative... Oh, there isn't. I'm sorry. [[There isn't.]] [[There isn't.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 689, and the report of the Commission In print No 689 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u149	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! I submit a report to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act on the amendment of the excise duty Act adopted by the Sejm on 12 December of that year. The Commission relied on this law on 14 December this year. The purpose of this law is to tax excise duties on electronic cigarette and novelty liquids, i.e. tobacco and tobacco dried. The rate for liquid is to be 50 gr per millilitre, and for tobacco and tobacco droughts, it is to be 141 PLN and 29 gr per kilogram. And that's the fundamental purpose of this bill. With regard to the committee meeting, the current Minister explained the purpose of the law in very detail at that meeting. As for the discussion, it took... Three people participated in the discussion, those interested in lower excise duties, and that was the purpose of their expression. As far as the senators are concerned, no one has spoken. After this bill has been passed... the result of the vote is a unanimous draft resolution. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u150	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want... Senator Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u151	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister... Mr. Senator, I just have a quick question. Because the validity of the bill is not subject to discussion. All I'm saying is, is this new one going to be higher, lower or... [[Higher.]] Same. Because it seems that the harmfulness of these tobacco or tobacco-like products is different. So my question is, was there a tax gradation at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u152	It wasn't, it wasn't. As far as harm is concerned, you, as a doctor, are probably well aware of that. I have no idea if this electronic cigarette liquid is glycol and glycerin. And a couple with tobacco are more harmful or traditional cigarettes. I have no idea. And I don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u153	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Wiesław Janczyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The draft Act amending the excise duty Act, submitted to the Senate, introduces excise taxation on new categories of products: electronic cigarette liquids and novelty products. Allow me to discuss the whole issue a little in such a way as to prepare a possible discussion, and I will try to answer specific questions, including those that have already been asked here. But I would like the senators to have a comprehensive view of the situation, as has already been presented in the debate in the Sejm, but also during the sitting of the Senate Committee. Both electronic cigarettes using liquid for steam consumption and novelty products containing tobacco in their composition It provides nicotine in the form of steam to the body, which is a substitute for traditional tobacco products. Therefore, the main objective of the project is to guarantee equal tax treatment for entrepreneurs active in the traditional tobacco industry and entities in the electronic cigarettes and novelty industries. We also expect that the measures taken on the basis of the proposed rules will affect the regulation of the market for electronic cigarettes and novelty products and increase consumer safety. Thanks to the excise mark Bandolas The packaging of e-cigarettes and novelty products will be able to verify for themselves the legality of the products at the time of purchase. The proposed project assumes an electronic cigarette liquid rate of 50 gr per ml and, in the case of novel products, 141.29 gr per kilogram and 31.41% the weighted average retail selling price of smoking tobacco, i.e. about 300 PLN per kilogram. These are moderate rates against the background of European countries. As many as 13 EU countries have taxed innovative products and 9 countries have taxed electronic cigarette fluid. The amendments tabled by the club "Right and Justice', which were adopted during the parliamentary work, led to several changes to the government project, among others. the use of a penalty rate in the case of electronic cigarette liquid, as in the case of novel products. Changes have also been made to the accuracy of the indication on the unit packaging of the quantity of novel product This is up to 1 g, previously this weight was given to an accuracy of 1 mg. It also introduced an obligation to designate legalising excise marks as from 1 January 2019 electronic cigarette liquids and novelty products manufactured and purchased internally or imported before the date of entry into force of this Act in order to compensate for the operating conditions of small and large operators in view of the possibility of stockpiling produced before tax. A zero rate has also been introduced for electronic cigarette and novelty liquids until the end of the future, i.e. 2018, which is a very favourable solution for the e-cigarette industry and innovative products, and meets the demands made by the operators during the public consultation. Operators therefore have 12 months to set up a tax warehouse and adapt the production process to the labelling of liquid for electronic cigarettes and novel products with excise marks. The proposed project assumes from 1 January 2019 an annual tax revenue of PLN 75 million on new excise goods. In addition, as the market for electronic cigarettes and novelty products is divided between two large tobacco operators and several dozen small companies, the excise duty burden was designed so that in particular small operators could maintain liquidity. The planned excise income on newly produced products accounts for only 1/250 part of the excise income on traditional products. This means that suppliers of innovative products will pay 250 times less excise duty than suppliers of traditional products. I will also remind you that excise revenue on cigarettes amounts to about PLN 18.5 billion per year in the current budget in 2017. They were planned for a slightly higher amount. In addition, the existing excise duty system, including for small operators, allows for exemption from excise security after the year of operation, but also the possibility of production outside the tax warehouse of the excise duty prepayment institution. It should be borne in mind that in the case of intra-Community suppliers or exports of liquids for electronic cigarettes and novel products, excise duty on these products is not due as it is intended only for excise goods consumed in the territory of Poland. To sum up all of this, I would like to stress that the draft law amending the excise tax law is a balanced and responsible project, as it responds to the need to align business conditions in the tobacco and related products industry. In addition, it provides operators with 12 months to adapt to the new fiscal and administrative burden and provides a new source of revenue to the state budget, from drugs that substitute traditional tobacco products. With this in mind, I propose the adoption of a draft law amending the excise duty law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u155	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question because they have reached me, but I think that also to other senators, letters from manufacturers of these innovative or innovative products, in which they claim that this excise duty rate is detrimental to them, that it may lead to a risk of their professional activity or entrepreneurship. Can this threaten those companies that are involved in this production? I'm sure you've heard these comments, too, because they've been discussed. Would you mind judging and commenting on that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to the industry's voice and indeed checked the market share of individual operators. It turns out that at the moment the market share of small operators in the production of e-cigarettes, i.e. one of the types of innovative cigarettes, is around a dozen percent. About 70% The market has companies, the rest comes from imports. I would like to make it clear that excise duty will not apply to those products which will be exported. It is worth pointing out once again that, after this regulation, we expect excise revenue of about PLN 75 million, with 18,5 billion of the state budget currently being paid for excise duty on traditional cigarettes. Poland is a country which will be halfway through the European Union's rate of excise duty on these products. In fact, it would not be appropriate to delay such regulation longer. There is no such study today that proves that these innovative cigarettes are not harmful to health, and therefore comparing the quality of one or the other type of substitute for smoking is not allowed. This was also the opinion expressed by the Minister of Health. Today we have registered patents or licenses for the use of those products we are talking about, which are burned in the form of e-cigarettes, by 22 entities. We're talking about this scale of action here. It is quite illegal to refer to the fact that this is an extensive activity. Maybe I can better illustrate the dilemma facing the Department of Excise Tax in the Ministry of Finance. Let me explain very briefly, but in a way that I think is quite clear, a situation that we could describe as analogous depending on the use of certain types of this substance. So, for example, someone who smokes traditional cigarettes spends about PLN 5,000 a year on smoking, of which PLN 3999 according to our calculations are VAT and excise. In comparison, an e-cigarette smoker will spend PLN 879 per year on VAT and excise, assuming that he spends PLN 1500 per year on smoking these products. So we have a certain imbalance here, depending on what material the smoker uses, an imbalance in the expenditure that accompanies it. The interesting thing is that in the case of innovative cigarettes, the smoking of which is that you put yourself in such a small device. It is possible to say: micro-machines with tobacco, and this device heats tobacco, but does not cause it to burn, according to assumptions which seem as legitimate as possible in the context of certain parameters, the smoker will spend about PLN 6 000 700 per year, with VAT and excise duty being the amount of PLN 1 thousand 949. So here we have taken into account all that was possible to grasp in all this extensive discussion that has been going on for months. We have heard the voice of the industry, the voice of the various players active in the course of the public consultation. I will also admit that the government reduced the originally designed rate from 70 gr per ml to 50 gr per ml. This is also a fact that confirms that we were listened to the voice of the social side. Today we can assume that about 300,000 smokers are constantly using innovative cigarettes and an additional assumption, we have received such information from the interested parties themselves, i.e. from the industry itself, that in an occasional way sometimes up to 2 million people. Thus, assuming, using the data of the Central Statistical Office, that a total of 9 million people in Poland smokes cigarettes, this proportion of taxes raised to the state budget, by a common model, like other countries, does not seem to be to any extent detrimental to small entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u158	Thank you. Please, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u159	Thank you very much, Marshal. Already with your own card. Thank you very much. Minister, I just have a question about the resort... Because we talked all the time about increasing health expenditure, Minister Radziwiłł, the government has put forward some proposals that are going in the right direction, but some say that they are too slow. Excise, excise duty, as we know, is a common sack that actually... is a kind of reserve. Was it said at the Council of Ministers committee that at least part of the excise money for these products should be anchored in health expenditure, or is it rather so enigmatic?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u160	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Money in the budget, when it comes to the income side, is not addressed. It is well known that we here, by introducing this small fee, because once again I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is 1/250 part of the revenue that we are about to generate from this sphere, we are not making any change in the way that this amount is aimed at specific expenditures of the Minister of Health. All I can tell you is that the government is planning to increase healthcare spending to 6%. GDP by 2025 and seems to have increased significantly in recent years. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u162	Are there any more questions? Oh, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9b we add, actually we change point 2 into paragraph. 1 and here comes a group of tobacco producers. Tell me if this means that this group will be treated differently than a single producer. How large is the market share of such groups? How many groups are there? Why are they distinguished here compared to single producers?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u164	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u165	If I were to address this issue, I would say that the producer groups have certain preferences in terms of securing quotas in the trade in tobacco drought to secure excise payments. They have certain preferences here. So this is a universal reference to what is in force throughout the tobacco industry, which in recent years, in particular in the last 2 years, has been covered by regulations that have had positive effects on the elimination and reduction of the grey zone in the tobacco market. And these are the records that relate precisely to the possibility for producers to come together in the form of producer groups. There are certain provisions for these groups concerning the lodging of a security against the necessary excise duty on intermediate products. They have preferences. [[If you don't mind me asking, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u167	This means that the state, by means of fiscal regulations, in a sense, is forcing consolidation, I understand, of agricultural producers, right? That's what it looks like. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u168	We look more at this from the point of view, that there were very many intermediaries in the tobacco market, which in Poland produces around 14 000 farms in the area of around 14 000 ha, and we have dealt with such an operation that about 350 operators bought this tobacco and generally later this tobacco was traded, exported abroad or delivered for processing, often these operators did not pay the producers properly, not to mention that it was very difficult to claim precisely excise duty. Therefore, the so-called. the definition of the intermediary and of those several hundred entities... This number has now been compressed to 14 registered entities. It wasn't that long ago that there were a little more. This has resulted in positive results in the fact that farmers today have a greater possibility of contracting these products by entities whose financial condition can be better and in some sense is also secured by the action of the tax office, at least as regards claims relating to public-law danins. Thus, the certainty of this turnover has increased, which has resulted in a reduction from 18% to 14%, and now even to less than 14%. , the share of the shadow economy in this market, which is a very difficult market. I would just like to say that Poland, on the eastern border of the European Union, has been struggling for years with its customs services with illegal tobacco imports, which in fact is a very large area for abuse. Given the amount of tax I mentioned earlier, the profitability of illicit trafficking tobacco sales is enormous, according to our research it is often higher even than the profitability of drug sales and such products. This is due to the fact that for example The mere production of a pack of cigarettes costs 2 zlotys and in circulation costs 14 zlotys, so imagine what scale of margin we are talking about when this turnover is carried out without tax rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u169	Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 690 and the report of the Commission In print No 690 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u170	Thank you very much, Marshal. At its meeting last night in the evening, the Commission examined the Act amending the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities and certain other laws, Senate printing No. 690, and recommends to the High Senate As in print No 690 A The adoption of a law without amendments. In addition to representatives of the government, the authorised representative of the Minister of Development and Finance, the President of the Polish Insurance Association also attended the meeting of the committee. None of the senators spoke in the debate. In the vote, all present senators supported the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Senator Grzegorz Bierecki: Thank you very much.)]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 691, and the report of the Commission In print No 691 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law is a government submission. The Sejm did not accept any amendments, adopted the law in accordance with the Government's submission. We, as the budget committee, discussed this bill yesterday. In the vote on the motion submitted by Mr Bierecki, five senators were in favour, one senator abstained. The committee therefore asks the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. During the committee meeting, the Minister told us what the purpose of this law was. As a result of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we cannot continue to apply the preferential rate, 8% , to certain positions. It's about the pose. 82, 92 and 103 of the Annex to the VAT Act. Therefore, as I said, the poses were completely repealed. 82 and 92. But, as the Minister informed us, that doesn't mean all the goods from the poses. 92 will immediately be subject to a higher rate, i.e. the basic rate, 23%, as some of them will be transferred to item. 105. And when it comes to poses. 103, it gets a different sound. In addition, it is added to the post. 107. 107a, which includes pacifiers for infants and children. Thus, these goods will also remain subject to the preferential rate by the end of next year. The Legislative Bureau did not raise any objections. And, as I said, the motion was accepted by the committee. And I will repeat that the committee requests that this submission be approved without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u173	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grodzki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u174	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, as a rule, I am opposed to raising the price of children's articles. I read that pacifiers are supposed to be more expensive, contact lenses, etc. Can the senator tell you if it was mentioned at the committee meeting, which of these products will be used and how much? If you don't mind me asking for one of these... Was there such a conversation?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u175	This is Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to know if the committee's meeting provided information on exactly what groups of articles will be affected by this change. That's a pose. 82, 92, 103, but what I'm talking about is what articles are in these positions. So the senators know which articles are gonna be... because, I understand, pose. 82 and 92 from the vending machine are going to cost... [[Yes.]] ...VAT will be increased from 8% to 23%. Well, in the case of poses. 103 parts of the products will be moved, as the senator pointed out, to pose. 105 possibly to pose. 107a. What products exactly does this apply to?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u177	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. If the senators don't mind, because these questions are intertwined, my answer will be one. Poz. 82 are chemicals such as cysteine and cystine. Cysteine is an amino acid, and cystine is a substance that is formed by oxidation of cysteine. They are applied in various kinds of measures... Let me see if I can make a mistake. I'll tell you... They are used in the case of foods intended for so-called. Special medical purposes. So that's where these substances occur. And that's a pose. 82. About the pose. 92, these are hygienic or pharmaceutical products. Poz. 103, as I said, in answer to Senator Grodzki. It includes contact lenses, but all which are not related to vision correction. So in the case of lenses that are intended for medical purposes, the preferential rate remains. And in the case of pacifiers, as I said, there is also a preferential rate, because it has been added a pose. 107a. [[But by the end of next year?]] Well, because for now this VAT law is in force, so that the increased VAT rates are 8% and primary 23% apply until the end of next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u179	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Paweł Cybulski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. That's the question Senator Leszek Czarnobaj wants to ask. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two short questions. First: do we as Poland have any room for manoeuvre with regard to those products for which the VAT rate is increased? That's the first question. And if so, to what extent can we leave this stake at the same level, whether we can lower it or we need to raise it. That's the first question. And second question. Minister, the senator has said special measures for medical purposes. Could you tell me more about it because I'm curious about what products They're used if, of course, you have such knowledge, because if you don't, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u181	Please, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal, thank you. I'd like to refer to it and ask, 'cause I probably wouldn't ask it myself... I'm talking about the pose. 92. What hygiene and pharmaceutical products from this item will this apply to? So this is exactly what the VAT increase will be about. Because hygiene and pharmaceutical products is, so to speak, a very broad concept. What's in this group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u183	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u184	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the senator's first question. I would like to stress this once again and recall the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 4 June 2015. We need to adapt our rates to what is set out in this judgment. Therefore, we will have to raise VAT rates for certain products I'll talk about it in a minute. 8% of the rate to the rate of 23%. I reserve it immediately, and I would like to make it clear that it is absolutely not a fiscal objective, but, as I said earlier, it is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's the first thing. When it comes to the question of maneuvering, it's hard to talk about some maneuvers here, we just have to execute that sentence, that's all. But I would like to draw your attention here. And that's what happened in the next few questions. That we have some room for manoeuvre in determining whether this is related to medical services or not. At this point, if we talk about the goods we are talking about in the new legislative amendment, these goods will mostly be intended for medical purposes, so they will continue to be covered by the same 8% rate. I would like to stress that this is the majority of goods that are hygienic or pharmaceutical products, and that is precisely the rate of 8%, which is the rate associated with medical use. That's the first thing. Next thing you know, it's a pose. The 92 you asked the senator, the marshal. This will, of course, apply according to item. 92 of Annex No 3 to this Regulation, certain hygiene and pharmaceutical products made of rubber. This applies to Annex 3, so we would have to look there, because there will be everything detailed. But I can say that, among other things. These include birth control covers, coils, syringes, tanks, sprayers, droppers, milk extractors, pacifiers, hot water bottles, oxygen bags, special air cushions for patients. So that would be such an example catalog, because that catalog is still extended. In this annex everything is presented in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u185	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: a law amending the Law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 695, and the report of the Commission In print No 695 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances gave an opinion on this law. The Act aims to extend by 6 months, of 1 January 2018 at 1 July 2018, the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning the implementation and functioning of the Register of Public Claims. This transfer is related to certain activities and additional issues related to the IT system, which is in the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration. The Senate Legislative Office has not formally submitted any comments to this law. Mr Legislator only pointed out that this law is quite late in the process, because if it is to enter into force on 1 January 2018, and this is the essence of this change, then the proper vacathio legis, which is 14 days, will not be preserved, and it will still need time for the President. It was a general remark from the Legislative Bureau. No one took part in the discussion at the committee meeting. The draft law was adopted unanimously by the committee without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u187	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. We have a government representative with us today, Mr Paweł Cybulski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law. Penal Code. The text of the act is contained in print No 681, and the report of the committee In print No 681 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the revision of the Law of the Criminal Code. High Izbo, it would be good if the state's criminal policy led to an increase in the security of citizens, so that these citizens, in the event of an assassination in a special place for all of us, that is, in their own home, housing, could repel this unlawful attack and the state would take their side. This is the solution contained in this amendment. It aims to ensure that the person defending the legal order is better in a legal situation than the perpetrator of the assassination. Unfortunately, in cases relating to the defence necessary both law enforcement authorities and courts too often, considering them at the preparatory stage or in the judicial proceedings themselves, they treated the action taken by the person attacked with regard to the defence necessary quite harshly. There were noisy things like that. The amendment responds to the social expectations that those who are in their own home, in an apartment, in a fenced area, have a reasonable belief that if there is a breach of the limits of the necessary defence, the law will be on their side that they will not be liable for criminal liability unless this crossing of the border of defence is necessary grossly. The revision of the Penal Code consists in the addition in Article. 25 §2a, who repeals the criminality of the act of the person attacked, or of an excedant, in a situation where someone exceeds the limits of the necessary defence, in response to the attempt to break into the apartment, premises, house or adjacent fenced area or in response to the attack preceded by the break-in of those places, unless the crossing of the border of the defence was necessary grossly necessary. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections to the bill. The senators voted 12 votes against, 1 against and supported this bill. The joint committees therefore request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration a request to a government representative related to... [[No, no...]] ...to the rapporteur's senator in connection with this item. Does anyone want to ask that question? [[Me, if I may.]] Mr. Senator Grabowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am very pleased that this regulation is now being processed. She has been announced for some time by representatives of the Ministry of Justice. But maybe I have no doubt, just... such a profound reflection about the record of crossing the necessary boundaries of defense. As the rapporteur pointed out, we are talking about a special place, a special place for each of us, our own home. And I'd like to know what criteria... Because it is known that crossing the border of defence necessary is determined or adjudicated by the court. Right? It's not up to me to say... This is not assessed by law enforcement, it's just legal cases. I'm afraid that such records in the bill can cause people to be afraid to react in their own home in a situation when they're attacked, because then the attacker can always try to, so to speak, show an attempt to overstep the necessary defense or... [[No, you don't.]] I'd like a comment on that. [[That's right, Mr. Senator, it's the other way around...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u191	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u192	I'm sorry. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. It's gonna be the other way around. Is that what you're worried about now, or... There are often situations where the person who is attacked thinks more about the legal consequences of taking certain measures to defend himself or his or her property. And this provision will allow, at least at the stage of the prosecutor's action, certain actions that will actually result in a case not being brought to court will not be a trial and a long-term trial for this injured problem. And that's what it is to meet social expectations, that's what citizens expect. [[Oh, no, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u193	Good. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. That's the point, sir. No, sir. I don't agree with you exactly. Because this is the basic line of defense of the assailant, which was stopped in our apartment by the owner of the apartment, is that there was a breach of the necessary defense. Here's the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u195	But that's what it is now. And from now on, it'll be harder to rely on what you're talking about in connection with the regulation. [[The recipe is clear...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u196	Okay... [[But there will be no record...]] Gentlemen, you're having such a loose discussion, and let me remind you that we are at the point of asking questions... [[I think the minister will confirm what I'm saying.]] You are a minister, so I think he will be able to answer that question, and above all that he will be able and willing to answer that question. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[I think I've given a pretty strong answer...]] Mr. Senator, thank you so much. The bill was introduced by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 682, and the report of the Commission In print No 682 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's not...]] [[Voice from the room: But there is a chairman.]] I understand the senator wasn't expecting... Mr. Senator Robert Matemtov, Chairman. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission at its meeting, after considering the proposal for a law without amendments, supported it and asked it, as before, to adopt this proposal without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Warchoł is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on restructuring and the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure. The text of the Act is contained in print No 677 and the report of the Commission In print No 677 A. [[Voice from the Chamber: No rapporteur.]] [[Voice from the hall: Wait a minute, because there is no rapporteur.]] Senator Wojciech Piech probably didn't expect us to proceed so quickly. So, are we gonna call a five-minute break? [[Voice from the room: Yes, five minutes break.]] 5 minutes off until 5:15 p.m. I think the rapporteurs will be in the gym by now. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 10 to 17 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u199	I'm reopening the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Restructuring and the Law on Administrative Procedure adopted by the Sejm on 6 December 2017. Two amendments were tabled during the committee's deliberations. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation requests the adoption of a law with amendments. In addition, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis has tabled 3 amendments and they will be discussed at a separate committee meeting, they are attached to the report. The purpose of the amendment is to adapt the provisions of the Law of 15 May 2015. Restructuring law on State aid to the conditions laid down by the European Commission in the notification procedure of the aid scheme providing for rescue and restructuring aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act aims to ensure that the notified aid scheme is compatible with the Commission Communication: Guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. The amendment will allow the granting of public aid for the restructuring of small and medium-sized enterprises without the need for individual notification of such aid and thus achieve the effects provided for in Article. 149 restructuring laws. The individual notification would de facto mean that, given the long waiting period for a Commission decision declaring the aid compatible with Union law, it would be unrealistic to carry out restructuring with public support. Following the repeal of the Law of 8 August 1996 on the rules for exercising the powers of the State Treasury on 1 January 2017, the Decree of the Minister of the Treasury of 20 March 2015 on State aid for rescuing or restructuring firms ceased to apply. This law therefore provides a general basis for the granting of public aid for the restructuring and rescue of the firm and restores the statutory authorisation to issue implementing rules similar to those contained in the Regulation which has expired. New Art. 139a provides a general basis for granting restructuring aid and rescue aid or temporary restructuring support to undertakings. The amendments to the Law of 14 June 1960 on the Code of Administrative Procedure seek to determine the proper relationship between the Article. 189k of the Code in so far as it concerned State aid for restructuring the administrative penalty relief and the revised provisions of the restructuring law on State aid. In addition, the legislator extends the period of vacathio legis of the restructuring law providing for the establishment of the Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment until 26 June 2018. The Act does not contain the provisions of the Episode, Transition and Adaptation. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. High Izbo, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation requests the adoption of a law, but with amendments. We'll have to get together again to discuss the amendments made by Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u201	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[There's a representative of the Minister of Justice, but the minister hasn't arrived yet.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] [[There it is.]] What do we have on the presence of a government representative? [[You're from the Ministry of Justice there, but the minister's on his way.]] [[The Minister is leaving, but you're from the Ministry of Justice.]] I'm saying there's no government representative. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[He is, but he won't speak. Except it's not the minister.]] No, no, there has to be a minister. [[Deputy Director of the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Justice Andrzej Ryng: Andrzej Ryng, Deputy Director of the Legislative Department.]] There must be a minister. [[Deputy Director of the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Justice Andrzej Ryng: There is no Minister. He's still on his way.]] Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the O.R.: No one checked in.]] I'm saying no one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on... [[Voice from the Chamber: No, no, there are legislative proposals.]] There are legislative proposals, yes. [[Grzegorz Pekkis folded. And Maciej Łuczak...]] I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals to Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, and that Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech to the minutes. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Roads Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 678 and the report of the Commission In print No 678 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Public Roads Act 678 and 678 A. The aim of this amendment is to regulate the defensive status of roads and improve the investment process on these roads. This amendment proposes the introduction of a definition of a defensive road into the law and, at the same time, the provision that the Minister responsible for transport, in agreement with the Minister for National Defence, will define by order a list of those defensive roads or sections thereof. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways will be responsible for preparing the national roads of which it is the manager for the defence of the State. At the same time, in the article. Point 1 (7) of the amendment proposes that the financing of those routes included in the list should be implemented from the State budget in the framework of the defence expenditure referred to in Article. 7 Act of 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The Sejm passed this law at its fiftieth third meeting on 8 December. 267 MEPs voted against the'158', with 18 abstentions. On 11 December, the Senate Marshal sent this law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence. The joint committee meeting took place on 12 December 2017. The meeting was attended, among others. representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure with Minister Adamczyk at the head and representatives of the Ministry of National Defence. Senators and representatives of the ministries spoke in the discussion. The Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee has requested the adoption of a law without amendment. Senator Florek filed a further motion to reject the bill. The vote adopted the proposal of the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee to adopt the draft law without amendments. Senator Flork's motion was rejected. Senator Florek then submitted a motion to reject the act as a minority request, and in the event of a possible rejection of the minority request, an amendment amending the provision on financing these defence roads from the armed forces of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo, I move for a bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the amendment of the Public Road Act covers 1.5 pages of this not much. First of all, this law defines the path of defence marking. At the moment, there is such a definition in the Public Roads Act. It also adds that it could be a whole road or an episode of it on the road list. Now it's important, important from a budget point of view. That is why the application to reject this law or to delete paragraph 7 of the Act. In point 7, it is said that tasks on roads of defensive importance carried out, etc. And on and on and on and It is financed by the State budget in the context of defence expenditure. I'm not gonna bring up the rest. So, in defence expenses. What is it? The thing is, public roads... In the case of those roads which are defensive and are in closed military areas, there is no doubt that they are financed by defence expenditure. But there are public roads, i.e. all the roads we know, voivodship, district, communal roads, also national roads, only that we are talking about voivodship, district and communal roads, which are used publicly, i.e. by all of us, by the inhabitants, but it can also happen that these roads are partly used by the military, because they go there somewhere, etc. It could be different. Therefore, the provision in the Act, which states that those public roads can also be financed from the State budget under defence expenditure, but falling within those 2% defence expenditure. This is what we often mention when it comes to defence expenditure. There are other possibilities, so to speak, of making local roads. There's a very good local road construction program, and we know that local governments are doing it. Now it's called, if I remember correctly, the development program of municipal and district road infrastructure, but it's still the same program. I believe that it is enough to amend the criteria in this programme so that defensive roads can be found in a group of local roads. This would then not be included in the defensive expenses. This is probably not a large amount of expenditure for these purposes, but the fact is that within this 2% expenditures that really have a defensive significance, namely the purchase of equipment, what we are talking about recently, helicopters, etc., should be recognised, not for the construction of roads of a local character that serve the inhabitants, but only part of the military. Hence the first amendment. The law is very short and, in fact, the definition of a public road could be made out of this law. Then the amendment, i.e. the deletion of point 7, would not change anything, because these roads would simply not be financed by national defence funds. It is also a matter of rejecting the entire bill. I think that this law can be amended, if the Ministry of Defense wants, it is a very short law, but not so that these expenses are included in the defence expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u205	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by... excuse me. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. [[I have a question.]] Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u206	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Flork because he filed a motion to reject this bill, and in my opinion this bill is good. Let's take this situation theoretically. I have a question: who should build a municipal road, county road or improve its condition? The situation is that there is a ground, to this ground leads a road which has been devastated as a result of use, and the commune, the district cannot afford to invest on this road. Take money from the army, follow this path, which will serve not only the army, but also the inhabitants, or not take and make this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u207	Repeat. As regards roads in enclosed areas, and there is a definition of closed objects, e.g. The railroads are separated, there are areas, there are closed areas, there's no doubt about it. We agree with that, as much as possible, there should be such funding. But we're talking about public roads, partly used by the military, if that's the case. 'Cause somewhere out there, maybe somebody... But it's still a public road. So it's not like someone's gonna be grounded and we can't go. Who finances public roads? Well, of course that depends on the category of the road. If this is a communal road, then the commune, county, voivodship, etc... [[They don't have any money.]] They don't have any money. Therefore, e.g. We have created a great program to build local roads. Well, I'm not gonna talk about the whole thing when it comes to general management, what the resources are there, what we're doing, because there's money for all kinds of investments, renovations, etc. And there's a local road program. The whole problem is... Why should we include these expenses in very important defensive expenses? Let's buy guns, guns, tanks, etc., because we've got the budget to do this. But this is building a road that is open to the public, not in a closed area. So... Well, there's a difference of opinion here. I know that municipalities, voivodships, powiats are struggling with the fact that they still have not enough money, but thanks to the program of construction of local roads in Poland we have renovated very, very many roads in recent years. I myself was a councillor of the Sejm of Wielkopolska Voivodship, and I remember our discussion at the beginning, how the voivodship self-governments were formed, was the year 1999 - what was the situation on the roads. In Poland, we had about 15% (17%) roads of this normal standard. Today we have about 80 percent, 85%. So you can see how progress is, how it changes. And the military is an army and we should spend money on military purposes, not on other purposes that do not necessarily have to be financed by these funds. [[That's another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u208	I'm sure the senator wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u209	Yeah, just a quick question, attention. The senator uses the term "closed area." But it's a restricted area. That's your understanding of the range, isn't it? The army is arriving. It usually arrives, it's not dropped from the sky, it's not a landing on the ground, it's a road trip. National, voivodship, county, communal. It is only as a consequence that you reach the closed facility, or the ground, that you are in military territory. So you're saying that the military that uses public roads can't be a minimum part of its budget to help repair those roads that destroy heavy equipment on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u210	Yeah, the restricted areas aren't just the ground, they're also the barracks. But the army drives tanks. Not on these roads, but on the ground, and this drive, in the time of peace right now, isn't the kind of drive that destroys the roads. 'Cause if it were road-destructive to such a degree, then it would have to be de-routed and allocated to military purposes, if that's the reason for it. We're talking about access roads from all sides. I know an example of one of the large polygons, which is in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. These access roads from all sides are plenty and you can reach this range from different directions, and you can reach them. And I don't see any problem that these access roads, which can be used from different directions to the range, have to be financed... So that's the sentence... But we're in favour. I gave one path so that these roads could also be renovated for local governments. But there's one condition. Let's not count these resources as defensive expenses, because that's a different goal. We keep saying 2%. Money is spent on defense. And that's the primary goal. And to help... Okay, it's the same money. Whether the money from the state budget goes to the Minister of National Defence and from there it will be financed, whether it will go the other way from the state budget, and with this money will be financed... The goal is the same, we will finance the way. Only these expenses will not be counted as defence expenses. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u211	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the representative of the minority's request. It is, of course, about this motion to reject the bill. I have a very simple question: why do you want to prevent the military from helping local governments, if there are such cases that it's just the military these roads... maybe not only that it's devastating because it doesn't do it on purpose, but it's damaging them because of this, not the other equipment that moves on these roads? I myself, to tell you the truth, I lived as a child on a road that served as a transporter. I don't know if you remember, it's transporters like that. From the unit, from the barracks to the ground. And they regularly drove around this road every two weeks or so. But that's another question. Right now, we want to help local governments. It's possible. You don't necessarily want to include this expense in defence expenses. Well, then, by your thinking... Well, because it's not closely related to defense, I don't know, weapons, shooting, it's not ammo or weapons. But it's just as well fuel that you use on the fields, it's not exactly defence-related either, because they couldn't drive, they couldn't train. [[Right.]] And you couldn't count it as defense expenses either. I don't think it's a path to anywhere. If the army has such opportunities, it is responsible for destroying the road, because in general, as many cars will pass, it is incomparable at all with the emphasis on the axle in the case of a truck, let's assume, military Why wouldn't it work?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u213	If this road is generally used for military purposes, it should be considered whether such a road should not be excluded from public traffic. I keep reminding you that we are talking about public roads, communal roads, district roads and voivodships. I'm not against self-government, against building roads. We're all for it. I remind you, I repeat once again about these good programs, among others. a local road construction programme. It's just one thing, I repeat: to spend money on defence, on those defence purposes that the senator mentions, not to spend money from the budget on defence expenses for these purposes. We're in favour, you can do it another way, but don't open the gate. Don't open the gate that money with those 2% Maybe today we can use it to build roads that are accessible to others, and in a moment we'll find something else, another gate, and we'll spend money... No, this money is meant to serve defence purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u214	You ask the senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u215	To see the senator of the minority. [[Why just me?]] Mr. Senator, are you getting laid... Is this stubbornness that causes the money from the Ministry of Defence's budget to go to public roads related to the fact that the Ministry of Defence will not be able to spend these 2% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u216	I don't think the Ministry of Defense can handle spending 2%. Oh, yeah, that's right, 'cause that's maybe... I don't know exactly how much, because we don't know how much money it is... But we do know the Ministry of Defense is having trouble spending money. That's a fact. About these orders, shopping is loud, what we're saying... But, Mr. Senator, I don't think this amount is decisive. Except it's a rule, because we're gonna open the gate and the Ministry of National Defense in a minute, if it doesn't have the opportunity to spend that money, or it's gonna prove that it's 2%, that it's spent all the money, so it's gonna find another gate to spend the money that's spent on defense expenses, so that 2% of it's gonna be spent on the money. maintain. We already know today, and we can discuss this for a long time, what it looks like with the purchase case. VIP planes, etc., etc. Should such defensive expenditure be included in this kind of expenditure? The defensive target is very important. It is important that we buy modern equipment and spend money, organize tenders where it is needed. But it is not advisable to spend not so much money for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u217	You're asking Senator Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Hamersky. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I have a question about the defensive road, the definition of it, and maybe not the same definition as this... Because the draft of this law refers to improving investment processes. I'd like to know what's coming in... what under this law can be financed by the Ministry of Defense. Construction? Remodeling? Renovation? Current maintenance of roads that will have defensive status? Let us also remember the cost of maintaining public roads that will be used for military purposes. I mark this because Senator Florek has been talking about current use all the time, but from what I know, it appears that the bill refers to a period of peace, but unfortunately also to an armed situation such as war. Then, so to speak, these roads will be used. I would like to know something about what exactly will be financed if the path is so qualified. Will it just be renovations or maintenance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u219	This was not the subject of debate at the committee meeting. I will simply say that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, in addition to the fact that it will deal with these tasks on national roads, will also supervise these tasks carried out on the roads of other road managers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u220	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u221	I address the rapporteur to the senator. Did you consider, at the committee meeting, the possibility of even pursuing the objectives of this law, but trying to use this fund to build local roads? I ask this because there is a mandatory 50% share of local governments. My point is that the use of this money for this local road construction fund is lacking. It could allow twice as many roads to be refurbished, because local governments would have to add their share. It's not about giving elected local governments gifts, it's about making public roads that the military cares about. Let us hold on to the fact that the military cares about them for various reasons. Build as much as possible and at the least cost. That is why I ask whether you have taken this into account at the committee meeting and whether such conclusions have been made.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u222	Mr. Senator, what you're talking about is, in fact, in the minority proposal, in the proposal to reject paragraph 7, which is the financing of these roads from the Armed Forces budget. [[I see. I'm sorry, I haven't been to this part of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u223	Are there any more questions for the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Act is the consequence of many interventions by local governments, which in particular in recent times, but also earlier, complained that their municipal, district and voivodeship roads were destroyed by military equipment. Recently, heavier equipment is being moved between different places. This equipment may not always be transported by rail, especially now that there are major railway conversions, so the capacity of railway lines is lower. Therefore, it was necessary to find a solution to help these local governments on the same principle as it is used in the case of State Forests. State forests also finance the renovation of local roads where damage occurs due to timber exports from forests. That's the kind of damage that happens. It is known that in the forest these repairs are covered entirely by the State Forests and, outside the forest, in local governments, joint agreements are signed. I have recently witnessed very good cooperation between regional management and local authorities in Pomerania. These agreements are signed and the local authorities are very pleased with this. We want to apply a similar principle here. In closed areas, of course, the military finances the roads on which it moves completely, and outside closed areas, of course, it must also use local roads, not only national ones, because it is very often necessary to use local roads in order to reach the national ones. And there's damage to these roads. That's why we only want to build... Because there are situations where there is a need to build a road, e.g. There's a stretch missing to get to the range or to the military unit, or there's a bit of a road missing to get to the railroad side. And that's when you have to build this road. In turn some roads need to be rebuilt, renovated. And that's all it is. For reconstruction of culverts, crossings, etc. On the other hand, there is no way that we are spending money on these roads. The maintenance of roads is still the responsibility of local authorities. You could say that we could expand this, because this maintenance is in part, too, so to speak... well, it's some sort of consequence of the military's use of roads, but it didn't go that far. It's all about construction, renovation and reconstruction. Of course, it is also about rebuilding bridge objects, because they are very often too low in carrying capacity. This is often associated with the load capacity. You could shorten the passage, but there's an example. viaduct or bridge, which has low bearing capacity, and then you have to travel many kilometers, we need to use other roads. So it's better to pick up the carrying capacity of this bridge or this pass, or anything else on this road, so you can drive less. Here's another thing. There's no danger, ma'am, that this will be at the expense of some big military expense. Ladies and gentlemen, the MON budget is almost PLN 36 billion, and we are talking about such expenditure in the years 2018 and 20202: for the construction of roads The cost of 77 million to be rebuilt A total of 24 million for the construction of bridge buildings, a total of 7 million. Compared to the MON budget, these are really microscopic amounts. For local governments, every dozen million is a big contribution. There are general principles of public finance; maximum funding is 80%. And that's the only way it's gonna be possible, there's always got to be this own contribution. In fact, it is right, because the government also uses these roads, so it must have its own contribution. We also have obligations arising from NATO membership, we must ensure good access to closed areas, military areas, etc. We also know that there are problems with access to railway sidings, that there are no adequate accesses to load this military equipment onto the railroad so that it doesn't have to be transported by road. There's no road sections there, too. Self-governments do not want to bear these costs in any way And you're right. So that we absolutely believe that here is the right principle. And I think... I don't really understand the senators who are so worried about these military expenses. These envisaged measures are so few that they will not really run out of military expenditure. And that's military-related expenses, too. In order for this army to react, it can function, it can provide us with proper security, it must move and it must use these roads. If we cut that part off, we don't meet the conditions of defense, good military preparation for action. The army must also move along these roads. And this case is clearly related to defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u225	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Czerwinski and Senator Rabbit.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u226	Thank you very much. Oh, first of all, a friend of mine... [[No, no, please.]] Yes? Thank you very much. I'm very emotional about these things because I've had this stage in my life that I was councillor of the county. And then together with the military specialized units, we built 6 bridges, including a large bridge on the Wisłoce River, connecting 2 municipalities. It's been impossible for many years. And it would never be possible to do this if it were to be self-inflicted by the local government. Will it be possible to use these projects, also for training purposes, these specialized units of the Polish Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u227	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u228	That is no longer regulated by the law. The law only talks about spending money on construction, renovations. And it's on general terms, just like it's been so far. [[So how many miles does it cost?]] This cooperation, if the Ministry of National Defence or individual... But it must always be related to the proper command of the Armed Forces... I'm sure that's a possibility, but I'd like you to ask the Ministry of National Defence. The bill doesn't regulate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u229	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question strictly about the text, so if you had that text in front of your eyes... It's about a changed article. 6. It was really about cutting out of this article and defensive roads not included in the national roads. So this is about pointing out what the voivodship roads are, and cutting out the defensive roads that are not included in the national roads, and that, of course, happened. But, in some ways, the content that should not be changed has also changed, as a result of a very small addition to or from. What did it sound like before you added that supplement? To the voivodship roads... I'll skip what's not important. There it was: voivodship roads include roads constituting connections between cities, which are important for the voivodship. So it's been so far that the voivodeship could have been a road that is a connection between cities. and the status of the city is strictly defined It is important for the voivodship. And what's it like right now after that shift? And, as I say, this case is not an option at all in terms of the scope of the bill. Well: voivodship roads include roads connecting cities or relevant to the voivodship. And this will mean that not only those roads that matter to the voivodship, but also 'Cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause 'cause they're, you All those that are connections between cities. And that will mean a sharp increase in voivodship roads, because all connections between cities, according to this law and with this definition, will have to be voivodship roads. There are many such roads, most of which are presumably district roads. The addition of this or that is unnecessary. Someone wanted to decorate the bill, embellish it, and the effect is counterproductive. Minister, you can still make an amendment, just delete it or And put a comma there. And then it'll be clean. Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u231	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u232	In our view, this is not a substantive change, but a certain editorial cleanliness. If it were to be as the senator understands it, then indeed all the connections between cities would be voivodship roads and I don't think that was the intention. So maybe there's some misunderstanding here... But so far, no one's said that he wasn't paying attention. [[Our colleague is very inquisitive.]] [[I can help...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u233	The Minister's done, isn't he? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes.]] You're asking Senator Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u234	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a brief question about... I probably wouldn't ask this question, but it appeared, Minister, in your discussion of the bill, the amount of PLN 100 million, which means that in fact the Ministry of Transport, I understand, in agreement with the Ministry of Defence already knows more or less... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: No, I was not talking about 100 million.]] Well, it was said that seventy-six million plus twenty, which is a total of... plus four, seems to be a total of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u235	That's what the impact assessment says. [[Uh-huh. That's what happened.]] It's nothing new. This is... [[I understand.]] In the impact assessment, these amounts are recorded from the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u236	I see. This is the result of an impact assessment of the regulation. And is this budget some kind of task budget? Are there any more or less roads that will be classified as defensive roads?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u237	No, it's just an assumption. And depending on whether or not there will be such needs, we will do it. Of course, there may be many fewer, and there may be more. A particularly large increase is not expected, because these needs are generally, more or less, diagnosed, but of course local governments will report 'Cause it's mostly gonna be on the side of self-government... Only when it turns out how many of these needs will there be appropriate consultations with the Ministry of National Defence. Because here, ladies and gentlemen... Why don't we do it through other laws? Maybe that's how it'd be done. But military roads or defense roads... As a rule, we do not disclose their list, it is secret until the decision has already taken place, etc. But neither does anyone really know that the road is defensive because it's a military secret... [[Exactly.]] ...and that's why it's done in agreement with the Minister of National Defence. So these attachments, which will indicate specific routes, are classified, we do not reveal them. That's what I'm going to say, the quintessence of defense, i.e. that not all cases are public. There is a list, which will be included in the annex to the relevant regulation, which is presented in a very general way, so as to show what amounts we are talking about. We're not talking about billions, we're talking about tens of millions, tens of millions a year for a few years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u238	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Kazimierz Smolinski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 692, and the report of the Commission In print No 692 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment on 14 December 2017 by the Sejm on 427 votes in favour, with no votes against, no one abstained from the vote on the amendment of the Act on Environmental Inspection and the Act on Environmental Protection. At its meeting on 18 December, the Environment Commission unanimously proposed the adoption of a law without amendments. During the procedure, the Senate Legislative Office submitted 2 proposals for amendments, which were not substantively relevant, were rather corrective, but in the opinion of the Ministry were not necessary and would not affect the form of the law. Therefore, as I said earlier, a proposal for a law was made without amendments, which was adopted. I would like to say that the purpose of the amendment of the Environmental Inspection Act and the Environmental Protection Act to the Senate is primarily to transfer to Polish law certain provisions of the European Commission Directive of August 2015 amending certain annexes to the European Parliament and Council Directives laying down rules on reference methods for the approval of data and the location of measuring points for the assessment of air quality. The transposition of Directive 2015/1480 covers the following amendment in the scope of the Environmental Inspection Act: Maybe I won't talk about all the details, I'll talk about the most important things, i.e. that national reference laboratories operating within the Member States will be responsible for coordinating quality assurance programmes organised by the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission and support the work carried out by the European network of national reference laboratories established by the European Commission. Amendment of the Law of 27 April 2001 2 of the Act, regulates the system and scientific support for the activities of the Environmental Protection Inspections carried out for the performance of air quality assessments and the system for monitoring air pollution results of mathematical modelling. The proposed solutions will ensure that the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspections provide the necessary and uniform and good quality data. The implementation of this work will be entrusted to the Institute for Environmental Protection. I would like to say that in recent days we have seen the deterioration of the air condition, especially in our country, which is widely represented by various media. And when it comes to air monitoring, maybe that's why the data travels so fast... As far as air monitoring in Poland is concerned, this is one of the better conduct of monitoring in Europe. In recent years, laboratories and monitoring systems have been added to the amount of PLN 50 million, and in 2015 the Provincial Inspectorates and probably the Chief Environmental Inspectors The total amount of 28 million PLN. I think that, recently observing the interest in smog resolutions adopted by local governments... And even looking at this vote, 'cause it's rare for the Sejm to adopt the bill almost unanimously... Therefore, I ask the High House, in accordance with what was adopted at the meeting of the Environment Committee, to support the proposed draft law in print No 692 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u240	At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. [[Nobody does.]] Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Mr Paweł Salek, a representative of the government for climate policy, Secretary of State. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Fisherman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this implementation is intended to ensure a better way of monitoring air and coordinating the flow of information throughout the European Union. I have a very specific question: will the adoption of this law allow to speed up efforts to solve smog problems in Poland? Because we know we look tragic on the map of Europe. And will this new law also allow better monitoring of air status in these smaller towns, at least the rank of county cities? Because during the committee meeting you mentioned that various types of devices, which are available to various social groups or non-governmental organisations and are used for the so-called. current controls are relatively unreliable. And I think these local communities would like full information about the state of the air in these environments, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u242	Minister, I'd like to ask you to take the floor. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salał: Mr. Marshal, may I answer?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u243	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! To answer this question, I would like to point out that we have two elements in this bill. This is a national element, linked to the fact that we want to improve how the issue of air quality from the modelling side is carried out in the country. This is one element, national. And this is the second element, this is the European element, which is that we are updating and implementing the so-called directive into our law. technological progress in laboratories. Of course, these 2 elements contained in this Act will directly and indirectly affect air quality and air quality monitoring 'Cause that's what we're talking about here first. However, as this laboratory will be integrated into the European system, there will be better data, the public will be better informed. Polish society is constantly informed about how air quality is shaping in Poland. In recent days in Warsaw I'm going to go to Warsaw. At both measurement stations, i.e. from State Environmental Monitoring, which at this point, I'm talking about protection... There were moderate or sufficient conditions. Well, of course, the issue of smog, low emissions is very emotional in the media space, but I refer first to State Environmental Monitoring, because it is certified and consistent with all EU legislation, directives, regulations and monitoring laws, which gives the most reliable data across the country. Today in Poland there are more than 300 measuring points in terms of air quality, air quality monitoring, so that it is a very modern and sophisticated air monitoring system in general, you can say, in Europe. And the problems of air cleanliness are not only about Poland. We are trying to do a lot in this area, and I think we can do a little bit. Therefore, a request to the High House to adopt this law, because it will help us shape and improve the quality of air and its monitoring under national and European law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u244	You want to ask the senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna cut it short. Perhaps the Minister could answer the second part of my question more specifically: are there such reliable measuring stations in Leszno, Rawicz, Gostyn and Kościan? These are the county cities of my constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u246	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! These measuring points are over 300, I do not remember all, which is covered by Poland at the moment. I can list others, but I will not refer to the situation in Leszno or Rawicz. Of course, I'll check it out and give it to you. But the measuring stations... To show off knowledge I don't know about Leszno and the surroundings. I will say that there are 4 stations, basically 5 measuring stations in Warsaw, we have stations in Rybnik, in Wodzisław, in Zabrze, in Katowice, in many, many places. There are over 300 stationary measuring stations, they're functioning. As for the details, I'll be the one to give the senator that information, even in a moment, personally. And I would like to say that, in addition, in the next twenty months in principle, the Environmental Protection Inspection will be equipped with new mobile stations to monitor air cleanliness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u248	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[Can I ask you something?]] Senator Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u249	We didn't ask that at the committee's meeting, but now that I'm listening and looking at all these environmental issues, the cleanliness of the environment, the state of his research, I'm still thinking about the Environmental Protection Inspection. Are there any plans to separate the Environmental Protection Inspection from these voivodeships' budget units, and thus simply to make it possible to better reward the excellent professionals working there? I'm not talking about equipment, because equipment is consistent with technological progress, very good quality, but for many years it has been observed that the workers there are a group, which unfortunately, well, earns little, so to speak in a nutshell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u250	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u251	Thank you kindly for that question, Senator. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! It is true that the employees of the provincial environmental inspectors are, however, relatively low earners. Indeed, that's the problem. On the occasion of various activities related to the current functioning of the Ministry, also as regards legislative matters, we are raising this issue, but this is a matter of the state budget, those who are employees of the MOST, are rewarded within the framework of the State budget. And that's the kind of problem. But... [[Veterinary inspection, commercial inspection and other inspections...]] Yeah, that's right. But we're gonna talk to the Ministry of Finance about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u252	You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would also like to ask about these measuring stations, but maybe I would ask the Minister for a written reply on how many of these measuring stations are in the largest district in the area in Lower Silesia, which is in the Kłodzki district, which I represent, but also in the Ząbkowice and Leczoniów districts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u254	Good. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm talking about art. 4. Namely, throughout the act the wording of the mathematical modeling of transport and transformation of substances in the air is scrolled. According to art. 4 will be carried out for the first time in 2019 and will concern the assessment of the level of substance in the air in 2018. Could you explain, of course, briefly, why this is being done with an annual delay? Generally, people would want it to be on-line so that they would know whether the day is contaminated or whether it can be contaminated. And after a year, you know, it's just a little tea after dinner. But maybe I'm misjudged here, and maybe it's something else that modeling is for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u256	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u257	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators, first of all, we have a 2-year cycle in the international agreement, and we report two years after a given year. That's one thing. And in the national system, this data is as if after a year. But all the time, the application on the main environmental inspector's website provides current information about the state of air quality in a given place in the country, at a given measuring station. So this data is still available. International reporting is a matter of about a year and a half to two years, as I said, and our national A year. This is because all this data needs to be collected and robbed in the right way. Data from state monitoring are also used during various conventions, in international cooperation, in the fulfilment of Poland's commitments also in the European arena, for the purposes of reports to the European Commission. And because European legislation allows a modeling approach and the general distribution of pollution, this modeling is applied in every country, because it cannot be said that it can be concentrated in the country so that such information on air matters is kept up-to-date everywhere. That's why you just need it. [[So it's just for reporting?]] Yeah, it's for reporting and to somehow recognize the spread of pollution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u258	You're asking Senator Piech a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u259	Minister, I would like to ask you about the resources at the disposal of the Ministry and the National Environmental Fund for the fight against smog, for the fight for clean air. The second question refers to the direction in which we will go, i.e. Are we going to gasify, or are we going to be more based on heating gas houses, or are we going to go into system heat... Which way do we go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u260	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators, as far as the bill is concerned, by 2026 27 million PLN is planned to operate and operate under this law. As far as I'm concerned... [[Billions.]] I'll answer... As far as the development of gas networks is concerned, even yesterday we had a meeting of the Steering Committee for the National Air Protection Programme, the subject matter was specifically profiled on how the gas network would develop. PGNiG provided relevant information and showed the huge resources involved in the development of the gas network. This issue of the density of the gas network also appeared at the meeting of the Parliament's committee, and Members even talked about the fact that they would like the meeting of the Environment Committee to devote themselves to the development of the gas network in the country. That's where this case is going. Not everywhere, of course. Well, there are places in the country where this network is not developed and cannot be expanded. But here's the idea of PGNiG to do... And from what I remember, they're already building three so-called. such regasification stations where this gas is supplied, expanded and then injected into the network. So that such good examples are also. As for urban heating networks, this is a good way to fight to improve air quality in Poland, because it was in a centralised system, technologically sophisticated, municipal heating... Well, and yet the heat obtained in this way is, you can say, ecological and it is also relatively cheapest when it comes to how individual households obtain energy. And we, of course, as part of the whole programme, including the Clean Air Programme and the National Air Protection Programme, are raising this issue and promoting it. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management also has money for this purpose. Municipal heat plants or network owners are asking for this network to expand and connect new customers so that this is a focus of emissions, which are first generated by burning solid fuels in the living and communal sector, to reduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u262	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by the senators of the Senator and the Swedes. I'm opening a discussion. I'm saying no one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print No 693, and the report of the Commission In print No 693 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. Mr. Marshal sent the bill to us on 15 December, to the committee. We discussed the bill at the meeting on 19 December, which is today. The Act is such a specialty which once again introduces amendments to the laws to facilitate the eradication of the disease, especially African swine fever. This is a very big challenge that arises from the need for rapid action... Therefore, in such a very fast manner the government and the Sejm considered this law and we consider it in such a manner. The Commission is proposing to adopt a law without amendments, because every day is kind of binding for us when it comes to... The bill will enter into force 7 days after its adoption... because it is a very urgent act. I ask the High House to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u264	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Spokesperson. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question because at the committee's meeting the subject was not raised and the representatives of trade unions whether agricultural organisations did not take the position. Were there any opinions on the issue of trade unions of pig farmers and agricultural trade unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u266	Thank you for asking. I'm just gonna say, like you just said, that the subject wasn't discussed. I could say that we know as much as possible... In general, we know that the trade unions have been asking the Minister from the government to act as quickly as possible to combat African swine fever. That is why these measures have been taken. I thank the government that they are so quick to process and implement this. This is a big challenge for us, because if it had already moved into part... especially in part of the Poznań area, which is your territory, it would be a huge threat to the large farms that are there.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u267	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u268	Mr President, I'm not on this committee, so I'm counting on you to silence my concern. One way to deal with this drama is, of course, to knock out entire flocks, also preventively, in a certain area. Last time we talked about it, After all, the subject in Europe is old and unfortunately also in Poland, and difficult It was the result of the fact that at long distances this disease was transported... well, the carcass, which, in the opinion of many, was threatened by the spread of the disease. Then we sealed it, I remember working here in Parliament, and I hope that now it is so that in the immediate surroundings it must be disposed of. Yes? [[Yes, of course... if I may answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u269	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u270	Of course, you're right, it was even a case brought up by me at the committee meeting. [[Yeah, yeah.]] We intervened very quickly. Although the translation was clear that the vehicles were secured, all the regulations were preserved, but we did not wish for such situations, it was better to do all this on the spot. And that was, as I recall, to your region, where your concern is, I see that also in this case, for which I thank you... We all have to pay attention to where there's a weak spot to limit it so we don't move... [[Exactly.]] At the moment, all our actions are going in this direction, in order to actually do as much bioinsurance on farms, farmers should watch as much as possible, for their own safety, especially the larger producers, because they care about not losing their income. And we as consumers would like to be able to eat our Polish pork rather than imported.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u271	The question you're asking is Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u272	Thank you very much. Will this bill reduce the number of wild boars in the fields of farmers? I mean especially the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u273	I think that as part of the prevention it will also be in Podkarpackie, because the more this zone expands, and she is already in my Lublin territory, and we are close to each other... Therefore, we make sure that it does not spread and hence, among others. these extraordinary measures that we are introducing to Ukraine... [[And Slovakia, 2 borders.]] ...doesn't allow us to enter our territory... That's why it's happening. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u274	Are there any more questions? I can't see. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Rafał Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, like to speak? If so, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another project, another special act, which meets the expectations not only of the social side, but also of agricultural organizations, pig producers, but I do not hide that even the Polish Łowiecki Union, which is at the moment the only tool in terms of depopulation of wild animals, in this case wild boars, which unfortunately are the primary vector, the source of African swine fever infection. Hence, among others. just cases that have already appeared in the vicinity of Warsaw, and have a completely different source of infection, because it is not a natural road of ASF, on this road there is a more than a hundred-kilometer break, reaching from Siedlec to Warsaw... Unfortunately, this vector has been moved in this case. It's a human factor... We met the expectations of the social side, but also of the Polish Łowiecki Union, to regulate the issue of wild boar harvesting and killing after harvesting, so that there would be no more paradoxes that occurred in the vicinity of the capital city of Warsaw, that the wild boars caught were transported in different parts of the country, which could have become an infecting factor. We have also developed procedures to encourage hunters to carry out and shoot off health and hunting themselves. In the event of a sanitary discharge, hunters will receive a six-day leave per year in accordance with this law. So the issue of combating African swine fever has been treated by the government as a public target and in this case such a tool has been launched. The proposed law also introduces an amendment to the Law on the State Border. This is precisely about regulating the article. 10, i.e. the possibility of building other devices, not only for border protection. In this case it is the construction of a barrier on the section of the Belarusian-Ukrainian-Polish border. We're fully aware. We are constantly observing the development of African swine fever In these places, even on this border strip or in its immediate vicinity, in the WAMTA zone, or 50 km from the border, as soon as the boars are reduced, the so-called. an ecological vacuum which is immediately filled by wild animals from Ukraine or Belarus. This is why the government has proposed such a project. Some may call it a radical decision, but we simply have to meet the expectations of the social side and, above all, be one step ahead of the virus. That's why I'm bringing it in, High Izbo... As the rapporteur, Senator Chróścikowski, pointed out, this project is being conducted in instantly. During the week he passed through the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, then through the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, and today it is the High Chamber that examines this project. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I ask that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u276	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Kilian a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u277	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, is the current number of veterinarians working in the State Veterinary Inspection sufficient to carry out the tasks outlined in the amended act? The second question was raised in the Seym by the Civic Platform Club. This is about increasing pay for veterinary doctors. Does the government anticipate and if so, at what time An increase in pay for veterinarians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u278	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as this remuneration is concerned, the draft budget law for 2018 does not provide for increases in the veterinary inspection. However, this draft law gives the possibility to appoint an official doctor to carry out tasks not only as part of his inspection but also as part of a neighbouring inspection. That's the answer to the senator's first question. In a crisis situation, there is no such idea as a sufficient number of veterinarians employed in the Veterinary Inspection. In a crisis situation There are moments like this, let's take the last two weekends around Warsaw. Even if these doctors were e.g. 200, they'd really have something to do anyway. If 41 dead boars are found during the persecution of the area between Mount Calvary and Konstancin-Jeziorna during one weekend and 22 dead boars are found next weekend, no matter how many jobs there are in the inspection, it would be insufficient. Nevertheless, Minister Krzysztof Jurgel also addressed the Minister of Finance on the issue of increases for the Veterinary Inspection. All the time, our position, the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, the authority supervising the veterinary inspectors, is clear. We also want to value the work of veterinary inspectors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u280	You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u281	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, within two years, two NIK reports have been published on the fight against ASF. The 2015 one was critical, but the latter, recently discussed at the agricultural committee meeting in the Sejm, was already, I would say, dramatically critical. NIK even accused the government of very poor bioinsurance activities, indicating that the plans were unrealistic and that this bioinsurance failed. This is confirmed by one of the authorities on the health of pigs, Prof. Zygmunt Pejsak from the State Veterinary Institute in Puławy, who does not leave dry thread on bioinsurance methods and thus prevent this disease. Does this law have any chance of radically changing the adverse course of this disease throughout the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u282	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've summoned two NIK reports. The 2015 report on the 2014 action and the report that is currently being analysed. But this is not the final report on bioinsurance, it is only its element, which treats bioinsurance very selectively, because it concerns only a few counties in the Podlasie Voivodeship. But the senator forced me to answer that simple question because you summoned Professor Pejsak. Prof. Pejsak in 2014 in February, when 2 positive cases occurred 800 m from the state border with Belarus, as his colleagues in Spain claimed that a moratorium on wild boars should be introduced immediately, because wild boars would be healthy with wild disease. And that's how the head of the agricultural department survived, and she introduced a moratorium on wild boars for almost a year. What happened when it came to wild boar behavior? It happened that wild boars at that time gave 2 and 3 litters, and healthy wild boars did not displace sick boars. The wild boar population has increased by more than 200% and has automatically been produced as a result of irresponsible suggestions from Spanish professors who have no idea like wild pigs... Because the Latin name for pigs or European boar is identical. They, having no such experience, convinced our professors and automatically applied this variant and produced tens of thousands of basic ASF vectors that spread into our country. As I mentioned, this is the source of the infection, which concerns the city of Warsaw, because we already have cases. ASF in the capital city of Warsaw and in neighbouring districts is a human source, a human factor. This is not a natural factor. Such a ridiculous search of luggage at the Belarusian border or Ukrainian border in search of products of animal origin which are not adequately processed thermally, above 70°C... There was a Czech case, from the village of Zlin, there was a Hungarian case where their veterinary services confirmed a positive ASF in the animal products of Ukraine. That's why we have to take these steps forward, like I said, to be at least half a step ahead of the virus. Especially since there was a Czech casus, there was a Polish casus, and this virus can move from one hour to the next not only in the vicinity of Warsaw, but in a moment we can have a positive result in the vicinity of Berlin or for example. in the vicinity of Paris. Hence, among others. European organisations, such as EFSA or the European Commission, should take this much more seriously and even consider ASF an economic disease. Because it's not a problem for the environment, for people, it's not any... Since 1905, when the first case of ASF, African swine fever, was found, there was no mutation or any human disease. So here we can definitely cut it off. And that's the kind of message that should go into the world: that it doesn't apply to people. But there should also be a message, even from the emergency services of the capital city of Warsaw: Dear Lords, if you are in the Kabacki Forest, in the Brodnowski Forest or in the Żoliborz Forest, where wild boars live freely, and you will, even on the occasion of holidays, visit your loved ones outside the city where you come from, i.e. in rural areas, be aware that you can be a factor that transports ASF for long distances. It goes on, among other things. issues such as regulations which have so far been inviolable, because urbanised areas have not been affected by the so-called. the hunting economy. They were caught by wild boars and were signed by local authorities agreements with entities that dealt with it, but already another stage of implementation of the law on the fight against infectious diseases was not implemented, i.e. there were no destinations where these wild boars would be released. And we have such cases that wild boars were released in Mazowsze, in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship, in Kozienicka Forest in Mazowieckie Voivodeship. So we just have to move forward and design a specialty, like I said... I ask you kindly to pass it as urgently as possible by the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u284	Senator Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I remember someone else then represented the resort The debate on ASF was probably two years ago, during which there was a very simple idea, i.e. a fence at the border with Belarus and Ukraine. Then there were only 2 fires, the first in Lublin, the second in Podlasie, it was bigger in Podlasie. And it would be settled, when it comes to wild boars of course, we're not talking about human transfer, for example. in products. That's it. It's been two years and there's a rapid acceleration. The first question is this: what is the cause of this acceleration? Maybe that NIK report we just found out about. That's the first line. Second line. Are you really going to build such a fence, or are we going to debate for another two years until it spreads to Western Poland? And if you build it, what's it gonna look like? How much? Do you have money for that? Simple questions. [[Please, Minister...]] Last one. Did the wild ones pass? I'm talking about wild boars, not what's being spread by humans. The Vistula line? Are there just these cases already? ASF outside the line... i.e. from the left side of the Vistula line? And are there also cases of farms on the left side of the Vistula line, which is where pigs are fattened?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the senator mentioned, the discussion about ASF is another problem of the specialty of African swine fever. It was started more than 2 years ago, and to be honest, it should have started 3 years ago, and even in 2007, when the first positive result was found in African swine fever, in the Caucasus, and in Georgia. Probably the source of ASF was feed imported into Georgia from Africa. At that time, at the beginning of 2008, a serious scientific symposia on African swine fever began, following the Spanish experience where it was combated for more than 30 years; Sardinia fought against ASF for more than 50 years and that bioinsurance activities should be undertaken, but not bioinsurance of specific farms, only bioinsurance of the country. By then, it should be decided to build a barrier that would prevent wild animals from migrating. At the time, the subject wasn't taken up. The ASF developed not only in the Caucasus, but also in Russia, it entered the Ukrainian or Belarusian state. Today I answered this question at the Senate committee meeting. The credibility of the Belarusian or Ukrainian partners is really not impressive at the moment. So far, the Belarusians have not admitted to any case of ASF neither among pigs nor among wild animals. Ukrainians admit, but do not take any action to combat ASF. As far as the Ukrainian side is concerned, the response to high-level conferences that focus not only on European countries from the European Union but also on Ukraine or Belarus or Russia is always clear: procedures will be implemented. E.g. There was a conference last November, the previous one in January. Except we have these answers every six months. This committee is chaired by Commissioner Andriukaitis and the answer is always the same: in the next six months, in the next few months. They don't have the money for that. On our part, i.e. by the State Veterinary Institute from Puławy, very positive signals are being sent all the time to the Ukrainian side that we are ready to support them, we are ready to send them reagents, we are able to train them so that they can at least investigate the current situation. And in Ukraine, the fight against ASF is done for the time being: when an ASF source appears when a positive case occurs, animals are slaughtered and processed simply into food. All world organisations have made it very clear that this is not a threat to people, and this is why they have a method to combat ASF. As for the construction of the fence in quotes, because we cannot talk about any fence, because we do not separate from the neighbouring countries, we just want to build a dam that will not allow wild animals to migrate, in this case the wild animals This is the section after the protected areas have been passed, because part of the Belarusian-Ukrainian border with our country is the border crossing the Bug River, so the protected areas must be overlooked, it will be about 1 thousand 25 kilometers. The investment is estimated at PLN 130 million, with maintenance in the first year it is the amount of PLN 190 million. As your senator pointed out, the ASF crossed the Vistula line. There are only cases of wild boar, there are no cases of pigs. Thus, such intensive persuading activities conducted towards the Vistula and search for dead boars by the Polish Łowiecki Union, by all kinds of services of the joined voivodships, military or WGZ, means military task forces, because the voivodships through the voivodship military staff perform to the Minister Macierewicz and such WGZs are designated for the current persuading to the west of the Vistula and also from the eastern side, i.e. in the legionary districts, Wołominski. There also on an ongoing basis, practically day by day, and on weekends with a very high intensity, search for dead boars is carried out. We're just trying to eliminate this Pandora can that might be in free space.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u287	You're asking Senator Łyczak a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's a good thing that we're proceding this specialty, as you called it, which is updating the next five laws, giving us the chance to take the additional measures necessary to effectively combat this terrible disease. It goes on, among other things. What you were just talking about was the construction of special dams, even fences, and I've been talking about it for months to prevent this migration a few or a dozen months ago. We can see that despite the huge commitment of all the services, namely the Veterinary Inspection and all the services subordinate to the resort, including hunters, a great deal of financial resources to stop breeding by producers... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] Let me ask you a question. ...detail bioinsurance unfortunately the virus wins with us, there are no results we would expect. My question is whether the resort, seeing the situation now, is considering or developing a special option B, e.g. Spanish type, as a last resort?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u289	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Resort has always developed option B, practically since the end of 2015. If we had not taken these measures, I am talking about the first regulation of the Minister of Agriculture on sanitary fire at the beginning of the year, in February 2016, we would not have 103 or 104 cases of ASF in pigs, but we would probably have a number of cases at the level of the Baltic countries, where it reaches thousands or a sharp increase in cases. ASF in wild boars, because this year there are already more than 700 of them. So the actions taken in the field of sanitary discharge, in the field of testing dead boars and current persuading allow the elimination of this basic vector, are about wild boars, but of course it is still necessary to educate the public about the human factor, which unfortunately can be an additional source of infection, or in many cases this source of infection is. The Spanish took such extremely intense action after twenty years of fighting the ASF. They practically eradicated pig breeding for a period of 24 months, carried out a very active disinfection of their breeding and thus managed to recreate... They are now tycoons for pig production, not only on a European scale but on a global scale. Except there is a very important difference between our country and Spain. They don't have a basic vector, which means they don't have boars. That's what it looks like, unfortunately. And we just have to... Option B, in short, presents itself as follows: there may be a time when we will have to learn to live with ASF. And I wouldn't want this to happen. And among others. Even if that's why there's a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u291	The question you're asking is Senator Hare. [[I didn't volunteer.]] I'm sorry. [[Before that...]] You're asking Senator Kilian a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u292	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the impact assessment of the regulation, it is stated that these provisions will increase the effectiveness of the fight against African swine fever. Please state what this efficiency is supposed to be. When Law and Justice took over two years ago, it was three ASF fires, and now it's 104. What do you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're going back to the same question, only dressed in different words. As I said at the outset, Mr Senator, if effective action were taken in February 2014, and a moratorium on wild boars was not introduced for almost a year, there would be no increase in the population of wild boars on the eastern border by more than 200%, i.e. no automatic production, one case, one irresponsible decision of more than tens of thousands of basic vectors, we would not have this situation today. And this regulation of the Minister of Agriculture on the sanitary discharge of February 2016 in the WAMTA zone... The reduction of these boars allowed us to have at the moment, Senator, only 104 cases of ASF in pigs. If this action had been taken already then, we could have locked ourselves in a very small zone, as was the case with the Czech Republic. There it closed in zone 57 km2 and this depopulation of boars was really realized in a very effective way. And in our time, as I said, tens of thousands were produced, so to speak, crawling into the base country of the ASF vector, i.e. wild boars.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u294	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u295	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, are we already suffering any real losses from ASF? I mean, like. One of the countries doesn't want to buy pork from us? Are there any restrictions? And if there are such losses, what are they? We'll just have an image of how much we can put in so we can at least stop this epidemic as soon as possible. And in particular, I'm asking about Ukraine. What is Ukraine's attitude towards our food?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Global markets are third markets... In this case, even the People's Republic of China or Japan blocked our Polish pork. Japan has very advanced discussions on the regionalisation of our country, i.e. recognition of the so-called. free zones and the admission of our products of animal origin, in this case pigs, to the Japanese market. We have a very good example on the Polish side of the disaster in Fukushima, when we were the first of the European Union to recognise their regionalisation from Europe. Perhaps this results from such a far-reaching gratitude from the Japanese side and the fact that they are having very intense discussions with us in this area. The Chinese are also making these conversations. Vietnam hasn't blocked our pork so far and wants to take it with us... it's taking our Polish pork. But here one very important issue should be remembered. For now, even today I had this calculated. Only the production of pigs on a country-wide scale is more than 25% the whole agricultural sector. This is over 50% of the livestock sector in the agri-food industry. The sector itself is an amount of about PLN 12 billion per year. The feed sector itself is an amount of about PLN 7 billion per year. This includes industrial, processing, animal slaughter, labour costs and derivatives. So here we are talking about an amount of up to PLN 30 billion per year. That's what it could cost, with all the derivatives, this sector. So we really need to take all the action to simply, as I call it from the very beginning, be at least half a step ahead of the ASF virus. [[Question...]] [[What about Ukraine?]] Oh, yeah, Ukraine. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we do not have such a far-reaching exchange for pigs. So far, these products are allowed into Ukrainian markets, but, as I said, this is not a partner for us, which would be a powerful base for our exports as regards pigs sold outside our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u298	You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to refer to what you just said about the threat of our massive pig production. I am especially asking this question because it is the southwest of Wielkopolska, the former Leszczyńskie voivodeship, and this is my constituency. And here's the question: can you assure our farmers in this tribune that no outbreaks of disease or wild boar have been detected in Wielkopolska yet? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u300	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answered that question at the committee meeting today. With all responsibility and firmness, I assure you that there are no cases of this disease in wild boars or pigs as regards the Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships, or the western part of our country. The only cases detected in feral pigs concern the Mazowieckie voivodship, namely the Warszawska obwarzanka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u302	You're asking Senator Kilian a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u303	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the correction. Minister, you took over the government two years ago. And you should be aware. And if you don't, then the government of law and justice. That this virus will spread. We've waited two years for this bill to finally be passed. You haven't answered my question about the effectiveness of this law in the fight against the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u304	Would the Minister like to refer...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have answered this question several times, but I will answer again. If effective action were to be taken in February 2014, on the scale of the Polish state and not on the scale of southern Europe, then perhaps we would tame, in quotes, this virus within several dozen square kilometers and perhaps today we would not face this problem. But, as I said, a moratorium was introduced for a year, i.e. it was banned from shooting wild boars, and after the abolition of this moratorium, no action was taken to reduce the number of wild boars. It was only Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel in February 2016 in the WAMTA zone that introduced the first sanitary ban. Among other things, this law changes the proportion of pay for wild boars being shot off when carrying out a sanitary discharge from 70% to 80% for a hunter. We just want to encourage... I am not talking about the Polish Hunting Union, but personally about the hunters themselves, who are taking on a huge challenge, because the implementation of sanitary fire and reduction of the number of boars is not so simple. So far no boar in Poland has tied itself to a tree and shouted to a hunter: shoot me off! So you just have to be aware of how this reduction in the number of boars is implemented, how it is done.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u306	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. [[One more thing...]] Senator Piech. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u307	I only have one question. How are we trying to protect these large pig producers from the spread of ASF? And does this apply only to individual holdings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u308	I mean, Mr. Senator, he has no idea how... There is the production of pigs and it does not apply only to individual farms or traders, for example. are involved in the production of pigs. Bioinsurance rules, pig production, well-being include all actors simultaneously, so these rules also apply to... They apply to all operators involved in the production of pigs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u309	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for answering my questions. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one's signed up for this. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda, the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The text of the act is contained in print No 683, and the report of the committee In print No 683 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u310	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, which was working today on amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The proposed amendment aims to introduce a statutory mandate for the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection to issue regulations which are aid programmes to be notified to the European Commission without the need for notification. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the admissibility of the aid in culture is governed by Article. 107. 3 lit. d the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Until 2014 on the basis of the Treaty, subject to compliance with the conditions laid down in Article. 107. 1, aid for culture may have been granted after prior notification and approval by the European Commission in accordance with Article. 108. 3 treaty. In 2014, the European Commission simplified the procedures for granting public aid in culture by including this sector in the Commission Regulation declaring certain types of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Article. 107 and 108 treaty. This means that once the conditions laid down in that Regulation have been met, and in particular in Article. 53, aid for culture is exempted from notification. Therefore, provision has been made to specify that the Minister responsible for Culture and National Heritage may grant public aid for cultural activities as a provider of aid within the meaning of the Law of 30 April 2004 on proceedings in matters relating to public aid in connection with the implementation of an agreement concluded between the European Union and the State or Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement. Consequently, depending on the availability of resources under agreements between the European Union and the State or Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage will be able to issue regulations which, as aid schemes, will enable the smooth implementation of financial mechanisms from non-EU funds, including in particular the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. The Sejm passed the law at the fifty-third meeting of the Sejm as a result of the examination of the government draft law on the amendment of the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. On 8 December, 420 Members voted in favour of the bill, 6 opposed it and one of them abstained. After a brief discussion, the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, which was working on the project today, unanimously adopted the proposal that I had tabled without amendment. The Senate Legislative Office did not comment in its opinion. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High House adopt an amendment to the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u311	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u312	Mr. Senator, after this bill has been passed, the Minister will be able to issue a regulation. Did the Ministry declare the preparation of this regulation at what stage? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u313	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u314	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, during the committee meeting, the Minister spoke about consultations on the Norwegian funds, the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. He said that negotiations on the future financial perspective are ongoing and that this notification will be needed. I think you'll be giving more information to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u315	Are there any more questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Jarosław Sellin wish to speak on behalf of the government? Well, if that's the case, I'd like you to come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I'm just gonna answer that question that came up. Tomorrow, in the Royal Bathrooms, there will be an agreement between the government and the whole European Economic Area, i.e. those countries that form the European Economic Area, and I will remind you that these are Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, those countries that consist of funds called the Norwegian funds in short. And in this situation, from tomorrow we will have six months to work out a program to match the regulation to this programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u317	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm saying no one signed up for the vote. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, is included in print No 577 and the report of the committee is in print No 577 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media, and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u318	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! In connection with historical events, changes of borders, shifts of these borders, so happened in our history, that a very large part of our cultural heritage was located outside Poland, also the one which was created by emigration. Such institutions are very often faced with financial difficulties and, if they are not helped, it is because of the lack of funds that they may be forced to cease their activities. One form of national heritage protection is cultural activity under the conditions laid down in the Article of the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Act provides that, for the purpose of cultural activity, ministers and managers of central offices, as well as local self-government units, may establish cultural institutions which are legal persons. They have the status of public institutions and belong to the public finance sector. On the basis of the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, it was not possible to provide permanent financial assistance to Polish cultural institutions located abroad. Therefore, the draft amendment to the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities aims to create an institutional framework that would provide permanent sources of funding for institutions which have been established under foreign law and are active in the protection or dissemination of the Polish national heritage. The joint committees recommend that the draft law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u319	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Michael Sewerinski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I therefore ask the government representative the question: does he want to take the floor on the bill submitted? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the representative of the government present at the meeting, related to this item. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u320	Are you the Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: I am, I am.]] I feel awkward... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: I'm on my way to the podium.]] Thank you kindly. [[Please, Minister.]] Minister, I know less about the source. The financial situation of the Polish Institute in Paris is weak. There is a shortage of money for employees, a shortage for decent remuneration, etc. And that's where it's coming from. I know ..and also for activities. Do you believe that this submission or other actions of the Ministry are capable of changing this situation and activating the actions of this well-deserved facility?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u321	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u322	Marshal Severinski knows just as much about it. [[More.]] I think the senator meant the Polish Library in Paris, not the Polish Institute. [[Yes.]] Polish institutes are institutions of the Polish state, which belong to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are engaged in public diplomacy in probably 26 countries of the world. But here we are probably thinking about the Polish Library in Paris, a very well-deserved institution, founded in the 19th century and operating until today. It's actually so... And here, first of all, I express my gratitude to the senators who have undertaken to prepare this law and its application, because for a long time we have been discussing what mechanism to work out, so that the Polish state can help such well-deserved institutions, such as the Polish Library in Paris. For decades, especially during the partitions, but also during the Polish People's Republic, it was us, Poles living in the country, in our homeland, who often benefited from the benefits and services of such institutions as for example. Polish Library in Paris, as regards the possibility of scientific work, scholarships, etc., etc. Now that we have become officially a developed country since this year, because we have been included in world rankings, it is high time that this developed country, namely Poland, took care of such well-deserved institutions as the Polish Library in Paris. Very often the situation is that immigrants themselves or descendants of migrants of different waves of emigration are no longer able to maintain very often such an extensive and well-deserved institution. This law, of course, works out a mechanism when it is finally possible. Until now, we have been able to support such institutions exclusively with targeted grants, i.e., in short, grants, and in addition awarded on the basis of a competition. Various entities and institutions, such as the Polish Library in Paris, had to compete in these competitions for these grants often with ephemeral... That's what happened. It is worth creating a mechanism and this law creates this mechanism Finally, through which we will be able to help these institutions in the form of an entity grant, i.e. a permanent entity subsidy for maintenance, for such a most important basic activity, and in any case also in the form of a grant. But this is about developing individual support for the maintenance of buildings, for fees, for jobs, well, as in Poland, we normally maintain important cultural institutions. So that this law will enable this purpose to be achieved, i.e. the signing of such an agreement, the drawing up of such an agreement with the Polish Library in Paris and the transfer of Polish budget funds from Poland, from the state budget to such an institution which operates outside the borders of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u323	Thank you, Minister. Now let me ask you a question. In fact, I speak not only for myself, but also for people who have recently spoken to me with the following information. There were some calls to the Ministry, which you represent, from institutions running abroad, working for Polish culture. One question was asked: does the law that we are currently working on give the basis for us to finance the cost of the remuneration of people employed in such foreign establishments from our government funds? And to my surprise, these answers were said to be very uncertain, hence the concern of the questioners. So I'm asking the Minister, who's been introduced into this bill since the very beginning. After all, at first, quite a long time ago, she was on the Human Rights Committee. In the Minister's opinion, the current text of the Act allows legal, legal financing of the employment costs of people employed by these cultural institutions working for Polish culture abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u324	Yeah, I'm clearly saying it's possible. I don't know who people were concerned about, who they were talking to and at what stage. The project is senate, comments were produced in the Ministry and perhaps during this work such doubts were reported, and maybe at the time they were given uncertain answers in the Ministry. But now we have a clear record in this proposed act that the employees of the cultural institutions in question can be employed on the basis of the rules of the country in which they do their work and the funding can be from the budget of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u325	It's clear. Thank you, Minister. I'll give you more information off the record. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Good.]] Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? If not, thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sagatowska signed up for the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! The bill is very important, especially for the Senate. The Senate, as the guardian of Polonia in the world, attaches special importance to the needs reported in various fields and in various forms to the Senate, to the Polish government, to the matrix. For years, the Permanent Conference of Museums, Archives and Polish Libraries in the West, which was established in 1979 in Rapperswil, has encouraged various bodies, to our homeland, to say Both to the government, to the ministries, especially to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and to the Senate, to the committee which he has the honour to chair, i.e. the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, and to the committee on petitions and the rule of law, to the legislative committee on finding a way to finance not only the ad hoc tasks that the Minister spoke of, but also to enable the running of institutions such as the already mentioned library in Paris, the Polish Historical Society... They are many, many establishments, which are a great treasure of our culture. In the collections of these museums, various institutions, there are priceless treasures, they are not counted. These treasures must be protected, disseminated and passed on to us and future generations. I can thank all those who have committed themselves in any way to the drafting of this law, and I would particularly like to express my gratitude to Marshal Sewerinski, who is still the chairman of this committee, for which he has... Because trying to solve the problem, these organizations found a way, i.e. they felt that perhaps this problem could be solved by petitioning the Senate. And that's what happened. So the Senate can be proud. At the same time, I would also like to thank the Minister very much. Because there were meetings in the Senate, there were also conferences, just like in New York, with the participation of Minister Gliński. There was another conference, a meeting of the Permanent Conference of Museums, Archives and Polish Libraries in the West. What is the great treasure of this bill? Once again, I will stress this very strongly, and I will articulate what the Minister has already emphasized. The Senate also somehow contributed to preserving, although in part, this culture and enabling related activities, using the resources it had for Polonia activities, but only for specific tasks planned for one year or another. And here's the thing. After all, there's staff. There's room service. They're all of them, of course. 24 hours a day they can work and many, many years they have done it out of love for their homeland, but you have to pay for it. And that's what I'm talking about. Mr. Marshal moved by asking his question, in which he wrote this great concern for these people. So far it's been said that there's going to be help, but it's been asked: well, where are we going to get the money for the salary? And the fear of whether or not... Well, I guess these phone calls were because they didn't really know if we could work out a solution like this here. As the Minister has assured, this solution is worked out so that these institutions will now be able to benefit from these funds and, on the basis of this delegation, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will be able to implement employment contracts, employment contracts, office costs and many other costs. I think this bill will contribute to giving even greater importance to these institutions, and this is part of our homeland. The Holy Father said that Poland is everywhere where Polish hearts beat. Especially in these institutions Polish hearts, hearts of great Poles, founders of these institutions beat. These institutions were depositaries of what was most valuable to Poles, and what could not even be stored in our time of enslavement, because of course it would be destroyed or somehow forgotten. So that as a committee, I would like us to just... Because the Senate couldn't do it. I wanted these words to sound, because, as the Senate, of course, we can continue to carry out these tasks as part of the resources devoted to the care of Polonia. Right? Because we do what these different institutions and libraries report. It will be a great help to these institutions. Future generations will be able to benefit from this great heritage of ours, whose name is Poland, for the next years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u327	Thank you, Senator. [[Congratulations to the marshal.]] Thank you. Are there any more requests for discussion? If there isn't, then let me make a little formal comment only that until Minister Sellin joined this case, she's been aware of it for years, because I've been following it closely. It could not find the right solution in the relevant government agendas and was not only included in the agenda of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. So that the appreciation of the Minister is fully justified. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could move on to the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. It is contained in print No 560 and the committee's report In print No 560 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u328	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. On 12 July 2017, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions to deal with it at first reading. Committees at joint meetings on 11 October and 28 November examine at first reading the draft law submitted by the applicants, amend it and request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a Senate proposal to amend the Police Act. The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, as I have already mentioned, carried out the first reading of this project on 28 November. It provides that an officer shall have the right to apply for the reopening of disciplinary proceedings in his favour without limitation in time, and shall do so uniformly for all services, except for the Police and Border Guard. The joint committees have adopted and recommended the proposal to the House. It was submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the basis of a petition which entered the Senate. The project aims to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of a police officer who has been discharged from the service because of a disciplinary penalty for a criminal offence and a disciplinary offence at the same time. Similarly, the committees propose to introduce rules on Border Guard officers. The petitioner requested that a police officer be returned to the service in the circumstances described above and that the provision that disciplinary action should not be resumed after 5 years from the date of the disciplinary decision should be removed. In his case, the criminal trial ended with a final acquittal decision only after 12 years. In this situation, the petitioner of an acquitted police officer considers that a provision preventing the reopening of disciplinary proceedings due to the expiry of five years from the date of the decision of disciplinary action destroys his chances of rehabilitation and violates the right to protect his reputation and good name. In accordance with the proposals contained in the draft, disciplinary action shall not be resumed after 10 years from the date on which the disciplinary decision is enforceable. The exception is those brought to an end by a decision of expulsion from the ministry. In these cases, police officers and border guards will be able to apply for the reopening of disciplinary proceedings at any time. Like I said, it's the result of a petition. This petition, which entered into force on 1 February 2017, was addressed on 14 February 2017 by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. On 28 March, the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions examined the petition. On 23 May 2017, the committee continued its work on the petition. On 20 June 2017, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of a proposal for a petition prepared by the Legislative Office, and then, as I mentioned earlier, it was sent to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. These committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u329	Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Hello, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and Chief Superintendent Helena Michalak, Deputy Chief of Police. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank the Senate for this legislative initiative. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has been actively involved in shaping this proposal since the beginning of its work on this bill and supported the idea of the proposed solutions. The result was a project which, in my view, is a very good solution to the problem raised in this initial petition, which the Marshal mentioned and mentioned by the Senator rapporteur for many years. In this way, non-functional solutions that have been included in the existing legislation will be removed. Ladies and gentlemen, police officers, border guards, as well as representatives of other services due to the specifics of the tasks performed, often have to face not only situations threatening their health, and even the life of which we have had a tragic example recently in Vishni Małej in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship... But since 1990, 115 policemen have been killed. These victims on duty are measured by plates at the Police Headquarters at Puławska Street in Warsaw. But other than that, the cops. Of course, it's a completely different sphere. They also increasingly need to defend their good name against suspicions of others and, if these suspicions prove justified, of course they must bear the consequences, but if they do not, sometimes there is a serious problem. It is not debatable that officials should have the highest moral and ethical standards, which underpin public confidence in the state and its institutions, and that any behaviour that undermines this trust must meet with immediate and appropriate response. However, it is not possible to limit, as the current rules do, the possibility of bringing forward final disciplinary decisions when the same action It's the same thing, that's what's really important, and that's the key. to this case The officer is acquitted of criminal proceedings. As a morally questionable solution in the current legal state must therefore be assessed, in the light of which a police officer cannot return to the service even after proving his innocence before a court. Moreover, the current rules do not even give him the opportunity to touch such a disciplinary decision if it has been five years since it was issued. As a result, for his colleagues, but not only for them, because for the whole of society, such an officer will forever remain a person who has been criminally expelled from the service. As your senators are aware, the clarification of the cases in the courts which we have undertaken is sometimes very long. It happens that even twice as many years as the five years mentioned, during which a police officer may request that disciplinary action be resumed. If it weren't for this, perhaps the changes we're talking about today wouldn't be necessary at all. But until the courts are able to act. I hope this will happen. The solutions designed by the High House to allow legal rehabilitation of officers should be accepted with understanding and approval. At the same time, I would like to say that there is no doubt that there is a case-law based on the separation of criminal and disciplinary proceedings. Disciplinary responsibility is different from criminal responsibility and should remain independent, at least as far as possible. Therefore, it is appropriate to assess as appropriate the proposed solution enabling disciplinary proceedings to be reopened in order to re-evaluate the evidence collected. Furthermore, as the drafters have also rightly pointed out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, there is no time limit in certain services at all. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As a representative of the Government and the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, I do not feel entitled to take a stand against the solutions proposed by the High House in relation to other services, including the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service and the Prison Service, simply because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not supervise these services. I want to focus on what's going on with my department. But with regard to the services under the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I fully support these solutions. I would like once again to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for their responsibility, for their proper, comprehensive approach to the problems posed by petitions, and for creating the right ones for each of the services, I do not think that for the rest of them, I do not refer to this just out of caution. Legal solutions. I think this bill will be uncontroversial and the High Senate, I hope, will agree on these regulations. They're really needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u331	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has come forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Messages. Meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility facilities and monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities will take place today, immediately after the announcement of a break in the proceedings in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of proposals for the Law amending the Law on Restructuring Law and the Law on Administrative Procedure, print no.677, will take place tomorrow, 20 December, at 8.30 a.m. in room No. 217. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the applications submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Law on the State Protection Service will take place tomorrow, 20 December, at 10.00 in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-19-senat-53-1.u333	Thank you, Senator Secretary. I would like to inform you that the session will resume tomorrow at 11 a.m. We will start with the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the Year 2018 as the Year of Scouts. We're adjourned. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 33]]
