ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to call on my fellow Members, Mrs Agatha Borowiec, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch and Mr Wojciech the King, to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch and Mr Wojciech the King will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Arkadiusz Myrch and Agata Borowiec. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control at 3 p.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 10, - Legally, at about an hour. 10, - Health at about an hour. 10.30, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 11, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 13, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 15, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at 3 p.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - at hours. 16, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16, - Senior policy - at 3 p.m. 16, - Constitutional responsibility - at 3 p.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team for the introduction of Unimandate Election Districts - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Patent Advocates Act, - the exchange of tax information with other countries. The reports shall be printed in 1344 and 1345 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm has decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on these items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - a system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road, - amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other Acts, - specific rules on the removal of legal effects of re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Tax Code Act. The reports shall be printed in 1338, 1346, 1355 and 1347 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Paul, Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is about the possibility of admitting fire-fighting vehicles from European Union countries without additional certification. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs. The first questions are asked by Mr Jerzy Paul and Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome, my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u4	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Sir! I ask you a question and a problem that affects many local governments and CSR activists, and concerns the purchase of a used fire truck outside our country. The case boils down to the very high costs incurred by TSOs for obtaining different types of certification, approval, vehicle authorisation and use for rescue operations. These additional costs imposed on TSOs lead to the fact that such purchase of a fire-fighting vehicle abroad becomes insolvent, while the municipalities cannot afford to purchase a new fire-fighting vehicle and consequently the residents remain with less fire protection. Therefore, I have questions: Can fire cars obtained from European Union countries be admitted to rescue and fire-fighting operations without additional certification? The second question: Will the provisions requiring the authorisation of fire-fighting vehicles purchased by units of TSOs abroad or obtained in the framework of an international partnership be relaxed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue of admission to fire-fighting operations purchased in the European Union is mainly related to the problem of costs. Today, the cost of such certification ranges from 30 to 80,000. zł. It's a huge amount of money. This cost consists of an initial fee, the cost of testing the car, the cost of analysis of documentation and the cost of assessing the organisational and technical conditions. It seems that these are not entirely reasonable costs. Therefore, I have a question: Is it possible to significantly reduce the costs of certification of such cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u6	Thank you very much. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, This problem, which today is the subject of a question on current issues, has been repeatedly reported in recent years, especially by local authorities, but also by the voluntary fire department itself, which brings from abroad used fire cars purchased or transferred to them in other ways, e.g. within the framework of an international partnership. These high costs of obtaining admission certificates have been indicated. Because it is such a formula - not certification, just a certificate of approval - in accordance with the rules that are currently in force. I'm gonna talk about these costs right away. These costs which you have called up are excessive. According to the data we have, they are high, but not that high, ranging from 26 to 32,000. zł, which is also a large amount, of course, but here almost twice or even more than twice these costs have been overestimated. I don't know where that data came from. I would like to remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 7 1 Fire Protection Act products intended to ensure public safety or health and life protection and property put into service in fire protection units may be used and used only after prior authorisation. A detailed list of these products is contained in the Regulation of the Minister for the Interior and Administration of 20 June 2007 on the list of products intended to ensure public safety or the protection of health and life and property, as well as the rules for the authorisation of such products for use. The provisions that are in force today take into account the circumstances relating to risks that may arise if they deviate from those procedures for obtaining the certificate of admission. It must be borne in mind that the requirements for fire cars vary from one European country to another. It is also about ensuring the compatibility of these vehicles, those fire-fighting vehicles that are imported, with our system, with our products commonly used in our fire-fighting system. It also happens - and this must not be excluded or forgotten - that imported vehicles are subject to various modifications. These modifications may have a significant impact on the performance of vehicles, on the safety of crews themselves, on firefighters who will use them, and on the effectiveness of firefighters who will use these cars. Such an example, which can be cited here, is quite clear, which is probably also a good picture of what I am talking about, are cars imported from the UK with steering systems placed on a different side than in vehicles used in Poland. In conversions, a structural breach may occur when the steering wheel is shifted to the left side. This can affect the efficiency of the vehicle, etc. I don't have time to talk about it in detail, because it would have to be described in a much more detailed way, but all this is what causes them to be introduced - regulations - these limitations. They are based on the fact that a car imported from abroad must undergo these tests and obtain a certificate of admission issued by the Science and Research Centre for Fire Protection - the State Research Institute. Chief of State Fire Department in connection with these demands of local governments and voluntary firefighters has set up a team working on this case. The team at this stage rather recommends maintaining these certifications of admission, i.e. maintaining those criteria that apply today, which ensure the safety of these vehicles and their efficiency, as well as, I repeat, compatibility with the equipment used in Poland. But because there are also arguments that you Members are calling to mind, the arguments that are undoubtedly real, correct, we have once again decided to take a very thorough look at all of this. I do not want to declare clearly the results of this work at the moment, but we will once again take into account all the circumstances, also the fact that there is indeed a high demand from local governments and voluntary firefighters in terms of the possibility of taking over these cars from abroad. Perhaps these provisions will consequently be slightly relaxed, but I do not want to go into details on how to do so at the moment. Of course, it is necessary, in these initial concepts, to diversify the approach to new cars and second-hand cars. It is certainly important to aim for a reduction in costs. The ways to reduce costs are today, but they, these mechanisms, of course, only work within certain limits, so we will continue to work on it. That I can declare in the conclusion of my answer. This is where we've been consulting freshly on all of this. I can say that there's a possibility that we can verify and soften these rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enough to make it a little easier to allow these cars to be used in Poland... [[Since when, Minister?]] Marshal, one more second, if you'll let me finish my thought.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u8	You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...but, of course, with safety conditions, because it is actually a very important and most important aspect: the safety of firefighters themselves and the people who are the subject, the subject of saving people, property, the environment. [[When?]] And just one more point. We must also consider that in the coming years large purchases of new equipment will be made not only for the State Fire Department but also for the voluntary fire department. Within the framework of all these European programmes and the modernisation programme, we will buy a total of around 1 000. new rescue and fire-fighting vehicles, of which about half will reach the CSR units. This fact should also be taken into account when accepting used cars and allowing them to be used in Poland. It's about cars coming from abroad. As for this question from the Chamber, I do not know when. I don't want to declare it because it's new. As far as the approach is concerned, the group's view has been maintained so far that, however, these provisions need to be maintained. Now we need to re-examine all of this. Thank you. [[Please hurry.]] Thank you, Minister. Please ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Complete agreement on the fact that certain procedures must be maintained in order to allow these cars to function. Only the biggest problem is the cost. We were talking about a range of 30 and 80 thousand. Before we asked this question here, we checked it out at the center of Józefów. That is where the figures are given, that these costs are within the range of 30 and 80 thousand. These are very high costs. Thank you for the declaration of purchase of new cars, because this is the biggest problem. I think we need to go in that direction so that these cars can be bought and delivered to a voluntary fire department or a State Fire Department. I think the big problem here is money so that the money that is spent on purchasing new cars will cover the demand. What a role voluntary firefighters or State Firefighters play, I don't think it's necessary to convince them, but I would ask for additional information on the funds from the Ministry for purchase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] new cars. Is there really any growth? Is there a specific program? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u10	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer. [[There's been a purchase of cars before.]] Mrs Skowronska, please... [[But, of course, as head of the fire department, I listen with interest.]] We very much greet the friends of the firefighters from Podkarpacie.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, At the moment, I will not recall a specific amount, because the purchases I have been talking about will be the result of several programmes: a programme for the modernisation of uniformed services, which this time includes, as announced by the Law and Justice programme, also voluntary firefighters, as well as European programmes. Two contracts are signed, and the third one is likely to be signed. These two amounts to PLN 343 million under the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and the Environment. There's also a modernisation program. They just connect, they're compatible. We're gonna replenish the resources, buy the whole system to make the most of it. The number of cars given by me - approx. 1 thousand. cars - it also allows you to calculate more or less what the costs will be. Cars cost different, heavy - much more, medium - less, light ones you don't buy recently - even less. But even if you assume that the cost of an average car with equipment is about PLN 1 million, you can calculate the costs. Of course, I can recall exactly these anticipated amounts separately, because right now I don't want to risk giving accurate data, because they need to be compiled from these several programs. As far as the actual costs are concerned, I'm here with the director of the institute. I've already consulted it. But these costs are what I referred to in my reply. Perhaps there are specific situations, specific certification tests, which lead to the issue of this certificate of admission, which are more expensive. It is also possible to reduce the costs associated with the receipt of those certificates of admission. Although the Institute cannot offer discounts, discounts - which is a problem - due to its notification and accreditation - for conducting the process of allowing any entities: producers, importers, suppliers. Fees in the authorisation process shall be levied on the basis of the abovementioned Regulation. Unfortunately, the fee charged by the institute is not dependent on whether the car is new or old - it is also a problem because the requirements are identical - but it can carry out such tests in such a way that, however, these amounts will be reduced. Among other things, it is possible to issue a unit approval certificate for a vehicle on the VIN chassis number, e.g. for a second-hand vehicle, after ensuring that it complies with the requirements set out in the Annex to the above. a regulation on the list of products. In this case, the eligible costs are proportionally lower [[♪ The bell ♪]] due to the withdrawal from the assessment of the technical and organisational conditions at the manufacturing site of the vehicle confirming the quality, stability, repeatability of the production process of the vehicle. This is one example of the possibility of reducing these costs. It is also possible to recognise the results of tests carried out by other bodies. Thus, the Institute does not charge for this part of the authorisation process. I don't want to, I can't develop it, because I don't have time, but even in today's legal conditions, there are opportunities to reduce these costs, but there are. On the other hand, I would be happy to provide you in writing with detailed information on the amounts provided for the purchase of new fire equipment in 2017 and-2020, as this period includes a programme for the modernisation of uniformed services, including the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Paweł Bańkowski, Krzysztof Gadowski and Zdzisław Gawlik, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform, ask a question on the elimination of mines and jobs in mining as a result of the merger of Katowice Holding Węglowy SA with Poland's Górnicza Group Sp. z o.o. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski will answer. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u13	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On 1 April 2017, a merger of the Polish Mining Group with Katowice Holding Węglowy is planned, one of the three largest coal companies in Silesia, which today gives work to several thousand people in Silesia. As a result, further jobs in the mining industry in Silesia are likely to be eliminated, further mines, plants or mining movements will be liquidated, contrary to the declarations, announcements and assurances made by Mrs Szydło in 2015, that after the rule of law and justice came to power not only jobs in mining will not be removed but new jobs will be created. The problem with the restructuring of Katowice Coal Holding was considered by the Ministry, by the Management Board. In fact, only at the end of 2016 were plans for the external recapitalisation by Enea, by the Silesia Finance Society and by Węglokoks the amount of PLN 700 million. It was also the idea of a settlement with bondholders, and as a result - the idea of connecting with the Polish Mining Group. Minister, questions. How many people are employed today in Katowice Coal Holding? How many of these people will find employment in a new entity? Where will the other people find employment? Which mines, mining plants, movements will be destroyed? These are the ones that are in today's structure of the Katowice holding company. What will be the level of recapitalisation from the state budget of the new entity resulting from the merger, given that 700 million PLN was supposed to be sufficient to heal Katowice Coal Holding? Finally, how many new jobs do you intend to create in Silesia in place of over 6 000 jobs since December 2015. jobs in mining? What industries? What's the deadline? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u14	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The question first drew attention to the change in the restructuring method of Katowice Holding Węglowy. Indeed, the first analysis, when we started this process, showed that PLN 700 million for the recapitalisation of the holding company itself could help it come out of a very difficult, crisis situation. On the other hand, further in-depth analyses, which have been carried out, including in terms of coal resources and the future income situation, have shown that almost 2.5 billion debt cannot be handled alone. The second thing is that in Katowice Coal Holding, despite the decline in employment over the past years, the departure of these mines which were put into the Company of Restructuring of Mines earlier, such as Kazimierz-Juliusz, God Dary, did not result in a reduction in the number of jobs. After they left for the SRK, there was a need to maintain almost 3 thousand. employees who could not be... Collective agreements did not provide for redundancies. The introduction of mining holidays at this point did not give this possibility either, because the number of KHW employees who can benefit from mining holidays, i.e. About 500 people... These 500 people will go to the Company for Restructuring of Mine even this month together with the Wieczorek I movement chosen from Evening, where employment will decrease by about 500 people as part of this operation. But this reduction in employment is needed much more: nearly 2000 people. Therefore, one of the reasons for the inability to handle debt and the high costs resulting from the inability to reduce employment. The merger with the Polish Mining Group will result in some workers from the Polish Mining Group moving to KHW mines, those who can leave for mining holidays. And at this point, because with KHW however, taking into account resources, the Evening Meal will completely move to SRK at the end of this year, also Silesia will move to SRK at the end of this year... This will cause that within the combined group, so-called. a large PGG, i.e. with KHW, will be reduced enough to achieve a much higher productivity. There are enough workers willing to leave for mining holidays here, so the restructuring programme in its entirety, if we take both companies together, gives hope for effective restructuring, so that this company can come out of the crisis and earn revenues that give us the opportunity not only to operate on the day-to-day, but also to handle debt. So if we refer to the state of employment, it will be 7 March this year. 12 886 employees are employed in Katowice Coal Holding. Together with Evening I this month 517 employees will leave, because only so many in Katowice Coal Holding are entitled to mining holidays. In addition, 44 employees will be retired by the end of March, so the remaining 12 325 will become PGG employees under Article. The 23rd Labour Code. This is a procedure agreed with the social side. If we look at the whole restructuring, it is not accepted here that together with workers who are going on mining leave, we are eliminating all jobs, because if the mine leaves the SRK, it really loses jobs with it on the one hand, but on the other hand restructuring and needs cause that already in 2016 about 900 graduates were employed in our mining companies. So the basic direction, also agreed, concerns this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we can hire graduates, and therefore there are opportunities to act on the market. Two. As far as jobs are concerned, as far as the situation of restructuring of mining is concerned, unemployment in Silesia has fallen significantly below 7%. , and is now even at about 6% , so at this point there is a chance that among workers who go on mining leave and have benefits, very many, even more than half of those who have gone away, already have a job outside of mining. All this increases the amount of money on the market in Silesia, and indirectly brings about an economic recovery. It's a capital injection. The level of recapitalisation will be not 700 million PLN, but 1 billion PLN. The latter calculations led to an increase in the need to increase the level of recapitalisation. The investors cannot be mentioned at the moment, because not everyone has already published it according to market rules, because there are no resolutions taken everywhere, so practically, from the previous point of view, the change is such that Węglokox will not be an investor in this restructuring, because it has very large tasks related to the restructuring of the steel industry, which have proved to be much more expensive than it had previously been expected. And still, to answer that question, apologizing for taking the time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u16	Minister, why don't we give the extra question a chance, and then we'll have an opportunity, because it's been two minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u17	Thank you very much. I'll fill you in on the second part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u18	Thank you very much. In that case, I ask for an additional question, which Mr Krzysztof Gadowski is asking. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u19	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Indeed, the restructuring process is the liquidation of permanent jobs and the transition of restructuring mines to the company, as well as the retirement of many miners, the transition forced by coal companies or the resort. Since January 2016, we have applied for work on a law on the payment of the monetary equivalent for all pensioners and miners, because part of the restructuring going to the company from the vending machine receives it and is paid by the State Treasury. Minister Tobiszowski repeatedly from this stand said that a special team from the Ministry of Energy and from the Ministry of the Family was to be assembled quickly. It's been over a year and there's no project. We discussed the social project in June. He was suspended for further debate, sent to the committee, but there was a minister's declaration that [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll continue to debate it if there's a government project. When will this project appear and will it be possible to pay the equivalent for the last years? We would ask, Minister, for written information concerning the question asked today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u20	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In addition to the previous answers, I would just like to add that in Katowice Holding Węglowy, between 31 December and 31 January 2017, debt commitments fell by almost 130 million PLN, but given the state of debt at the end of 31 January - over 2 billion 570 million PLN - this formula did not give the opportunity to recover from the situation from the possibility of continuing functioning and needs for current expenditure. However, it can be added that with almost PLN 1.5 billion of losses in the entire mining sector for 2015 the loss at the end of 2016 amounted to about PLN 400 million, so the chance that the whole sector will work well is very large. As far as the Law on Money Equivalence for the right to free coal is concerned, this law has a financial impact in the long term, and it is more than PLN 300 million annually, so that is also, first, reference to the budget for the next 10 years, because its functioning will be even longer, so here is the issue of matching all this, but for these reasons in previous financial years these things have not been taken. Today we have the situation that the bill came out of the ministry, was addressed to the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers and after receiving the position of the Minister of Finance to determine and determine its financial consequences for the coming years will then be addressed to the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers. That's pretty much what it looks like. Indeed, with regard to the mode of work on it, it is quite slow at this point, also because of the need to adjust, within the priorities and opportunities of the budget, the expenditure related to it to the budget. And for that... But [[♪ The bell ♪]] many points out - from these negotiations and discussions that are being conducted - that this law should come out this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Józef Brynkus, Mr Sylwester Khrushcz and Mrs Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz club15, will ask a question on the rules for granting social grants to foreigners in Polish higher education. The question is addressed to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Minister Aleksander Bobko will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The first question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The problem of social scholarships for foreign students is a very broad problem, but I would like you to focus in your response mainly on the problem of those foreigners who returned the Polish Charter. According to the information provided by various members of the Kukiz club15, universities refuse to grant a social grant to foreigners who have a residence card with an annotation of access to the labour market. According to Art. Article 22 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 Act on Foreigners The condition for issuing a residence card to a foreigner is to return the Pole's Charter by him. The voivodship offices therefore rightly order students to return the document. It is also true that according to the literal wording of the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a of the Law on Higher Education Foreigners who hold a residence card with acknowledgment of access to the labour market are not entitled to a social scholarship. Students who have submitted a previously held Polish Charter for issuing residence cards with an annotation of their access to the labour market are in a worse position in the context of their funding opportunities. This regulation entered into force by the 2016 amendment and is now applicable in many cases, especially if the current conflicts are taken into account, especially in Ukraine. Many young people from this country with Polish roots are currently studying in Poland, so the issue of access to a social scholarship appears to be widespread and concerning many Polish universities. That provision of Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a is contrary to Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 1 of the same law according to which foreign nationals who have been granted permanent residence permits may take up and receive training on a regular basis [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish citizens in force. One sentence, Marshal. What is the possibility of giving a social scholarship to these students? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u24	Thank you very much. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, the answer to this question is already in the question itself, because the rules here speak unambiguously, namely people with other citizenship who study in Poland and have the Polish Charter - and yet there is, I will not mention it now, a list of foreigners who meet the relevant requirements - study on the principles of Polish citizens and are then entitled to receive scholarships, among others. also social scholarships. On the other hand, if a person resigns from the Polish Charter, its status is changing at this point and is studying on the basis of the rules for citizens of the countries, let's call it, third, i.e. others - then, the rules are unambiguous here, such social grants and aid from social assistance funds to students are not available. For this to change, there would simply have to be changes in the system of applicable law. I admit that in the ministry at least I had no knowledge or signals so far that such a problem exists, because the case also appears in such a way that students e.g. with the Charter of Poles or foreigners who study on the same principles as Polish citizens - it is regulated - they benefit from those aid funds that are allocated to universities, and from the point of view of the ministry there is no even knowledge about it. It is not distinguished, we do not know exactly what kind of assistance is directed to these people. It's just happening at the university level, and we don't have that kind of knowledge. This signal you are talking about is important and important, because knowing life, I imagine that it is for many people that the opportunity to study and work in Poland at the same time that life forces them to do so. However, in the current state of law, it is true that the consequence of such a decision is simply the loss of the right to scholarship aid from the funds. It's about social grants, benefits, etc. Here's a whole set of possibilities. So I, Mr President, can declare here that, under the influence of this question - because this problem has not been known to me before - as I said, I will ask, I will commission in the department to be interested in this matter. I don't know how much we're going to be able to determine the scale of this phenomenon. Alternatively, we will try to take this situation into account in some way in the future changes in the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u26	Well, thank you, Minister, if that's... Mr Sylwester Khrushcz - an additional question. [[Yes.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u27	Minister, of course, this problem has come up recently... [[But it was massive.]] ...but it appears massively on the eastern wall, which is Rzeszów, Przemyśl, Kraków. He's really bloated, and you can see that. We have signals from the rectors, from the student organizations. We're proposing a solution. In order to find the rationality of both provisions, it should not be accepted that Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a applies to such residence cards which have been issued to foreigners who do not have permanent residence permits, and therefore to such foreigners who would not have the right to study on the basis of the rules applicable to Polish citizens pursuant to Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, then Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a would confer a right to study on a fee basis for foreigners who do not have the possibility to study under the rules of Polish citizens? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, Minister, we have a request to respond to this solution in writing as well. [[I'll just add one thing. Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u28	Thank you, sir. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u29	Thank you so much for the hint. Right now, it's hard for me to... [[I'll just add that this problem has appeared in...]] ...in such a way to make a clear view of whether such an interpretation is possible. We need to analyze this and prepare a written reply. Whereas I happen to be from Rzeszow, I am in constant contact Also with my university and I admit that I didn't have that signal from the bottom, but I accept it here with all seriousness, because I imagine the problem is real, not imaginary. Of course, we'll try to respond to him. In writing, I will answer whether such an interpretation will be possible or whether any other solution in this situation will be possible. [[Thank you very much. Yes, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u30	Thank you, ministers and Members. And we move on to the next question. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz and Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. The question on the nomination of MEP Jacek Saryusz-Wolski as President of the European Council and the position of the Polish Government, to be presented at the next Council meeting on 8 and 9 March 2017. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Jan Dziedziczak. Please, as the first question asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Diplomacy is the art of effectiveness and art of backstage activities, which aim to convince our foreign partners from other countries to adopt the expected solutions. However, the current actions of the Polish government expose Poland to ridiculous failures. We have right now, I have an impression, a policy of spectacular defeat, not a policy of success. The problem is that the government plays not only on its own account, but also on the joint account of all Poles. By attacking the representative of his country, he confirms the worst stereotypes concerning Poland and Poles. That's why I have a few questions. What is the real purpose of the government of the Republic of Poland, which, instead of supporting the only 100 percent candidate for President of the European Council until recently, does everything to block this candidacy? Would the former Prime Minister of Ireland or the President of France really be a better President of the European Council for Poland? If Minister Waszczykowski fails to obtain support from any or almost any countries for Jack Saryusz-Wolski's candidacy, will he resign? The summit in Versailles announced the creation of a Europe of many speeds. In which European circle does the government see Poland's place? In the centre of Europe or in its periphery? What areas of European integration are the priority of the government and what government is going to withdraw Poland from? What country is our ally after Britain leaves the European Union, and what interests will we pursue together? What priorities outside the priority: do not interfere in dismantling the institutions of the rule of law, implement Polish policy in Europe? Does such a policy even exist? Is there even any foreign policy in Poland? Poland is our common good, therefore it is not possible for a certain political intrigue to discredit competition to act against the Polish state. I appeal to the Polish government to think and go back before we go too far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After Minister Waszczykowski's statement today that you are going to block the summit, I would like to say that it is not worth the worst Polish tradition of Liberum veto moving to the international arena, because we will simply be ashamed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u32	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of questions from the Member. Indeed, the situation is unprecedented. I might add that for the first time we are in such a situation that when a country submits a candidate, part of the forces in Parliament is against the candidate submitted by the Polish State. The Polish state, the Polish government has notified Mr Jack Saryusz-Wolski, your doctor, a person who has been involved in European affairs for more than 40 years, a person who has been well prepared, known in European circles for his competences and constructiveness. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, in answer to your question about the purpose of our actions, to present the main thesis of Prime Minister Beata Szydło's letter to the prime ministers of the European countries. The Prime Minister points out in this letter that Poland, Polish representatives in the European Union, have supported representatives from very different political backgrounds for years. I would like to add that I remember how Polish representatives, the parliamentarians of my formation, even supported the candidate for the high European positions of Bronisław Geremek, with whom they disagreed on many issues, but they assumed that he was a representative of Poland. We all remember that at that time, when Donald Tusk was in conflict with him, his formation hesitated for a very long time with this support, only after the pressure she gave her support. However, Polish candidates have not received such support recently. We recall, for example, the candidacy of Mr Janusz Wojciechowski and the attacks of Members of the European Parliament on behalf of the Civic Platform against him, which was a precedent that we do not support. Today we have a candidate submitted by the Polish government and we hope that we will all support Dr. Saryusz-Wolski together. As far as the President-in-Office of the European Council is concerned, I would like to say that he did not address the Polish government with the request that he be our candidate, candidate of the Polish government, candidate of the Polish state for this position. We do not know its summary, nor did Mr Donald Tusk present such a summary to the Polish government. We don't know his program for another possible term if he was reported by another country. That's Mr. Donald Tusk's show. He didn't tell us either. Unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the European Council has repeatedly decided to exceed its European mandate. He used the authority of the President of the European Council for domestic conflicts in one of the EU countries. This is unacceptable, unacceptable. The most famous statement - there were many of them, but it is the most famous one - was the famous speech when the floor was blocked in Parliament, when the work of the legally and democratically elected parliament was prevented. This is a dangerous precedent that we don't agree to. We believe that the President of the European Council should remain neutral as regards the intra-party disputes of the Member States. We feel that this position is shared by the leaders of the European Union, and we hope that there will be consequences for this. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the European Council should be supported by all EU countries. From this assumption, we come out and hope that the summit, which is about to begin, will be able to develop a candidate who will be accepted by the countries of the European Union. If I may add something else, I would like to point out that in her letter, Prime Minister Beata Szydło is introducing the candidacy of Dr Jack Saryusz-Wolski, a person who is widely known in the European Union, who declares her cooperation with the governments of the countries of the European Union, who knows very well the languages that know the EU's mechanisms. A candidate who is not a member of our formation was deliberately issued. Mr Jacek Saryusz-Wolski was a member of the Civic Platform at the time of issue and was vice-president of the European People's Party. It is difficult to say that our political camp was somehow close to these formations, and yet in the name of politics above the party divisions, it is precisely in the name of seeking consensus that such a candidate was exposed. This is what we expect from the current summit, we expect to find a candidate who will be a candidate who will not be involved in inter-party disputes and who will not be in the name of ad hoc national political interests, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He used the authority of the President of the European Council. We are sure that the only candidate submitted by the Polish government, by the Polish state, Dr. Jacek Saryusz-Wolski meets these criteria at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u34	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a simple question. When will the Polish government finally stop compromising us in the international arena? It's just a scandal. [[I think you're talking about each other.]] Poland has now been brought to the level of third countries. We have no influence on what is happening in Europe, and we have no influence on the fact that Europe is currently sharing two speeds in Europe. Poland has been deprived of any influence on this and you are responsible for it. I have a question: When will Minister Waszczykowski be dismissed, who has shown a complete lack of professionalism in his candidacy, which is completely unchosen? First, such candidacy shall be agreed in the privacy of the cabinet, and only later shall it be presented if it is returned to the public that it is a good candidacy. You have led to a situation in which there is simply a total confusion in which you have divided the Visegrad Group, which was supposed to be the basis of our foreign policy, which is also losing importance, and so on the good case of the Visegrad Group leader we fall on the role of Prime Minister Orbán's patent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is unacceptable and I hope that the Prime Minister will decide as soon as possible to dismiss Minister Waszczykowski from his duties as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u36	Thank you, sir. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer that question, although I absolutely disagree with him. The person known for the compromise is rather one of the opposition leaders. Of course, he also conducts foreign policy. We don't know its effects, we just hear about going to Madeira, about six kings, and that kind of talk. [[Don't be so personal.]] It's rather more of an embarrassment, but this... [[Excuse me, but Mr. Richard Petru is not the Foreign Minister.]] Thank God. As for your question about the resignation of Minister Waszczykowski, it is not planned, we have no indication of this. However, the confusion is indeed and is linked to the preservation of the President of the European Council, Mr Donald Tusk, who used his mandate as President of the European Council for inter-party, inter-environmental disputes in Poland. It was a very bad, dangerous precedent. Let's add, the confusion was also caused by Mr Donald Tusk himself, who did not seek support, the application by the Polish state, did not ask for it, did not contact us on this matter, did not present us with his achievements, did not present us with his plans. He volunteered himself, not in accordance with the rules, because the candidate must be submitted by one of the countries of the European Union. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It does not have to be.]] We are very interested in which one you will report. For now, the only candidate notified is the candidate submitted by the Polish State, Dr. Jacek Saryusz-Wolski. Unfortunately, Mr Donald Tusk's behaviour, his lack of any contact, cooperation with the Polish government led to the situation that he was not notified by the Polish State. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Legal Ravens.]] He did not ask for this, he did not signal any joint proposals, plans for the work of the European Union, reform of the European Union. During his term of office there was a lot going on in the European Union. I will remind you of the unprecedented departure of one of the countries from the European Union, which means the will to leave one of the countries of the European Union, I will remind you of the migration crisis, and I will remind you of the very inconsistent policy of the European Union as a whole when it comes to migration policy. The only statement made by Donald Tusk in this matter is that, so to speak, quite warmly in terms of the idea of punishing Poland by the European Commission in the event of a refusal to accept immigrants. There's no such disagreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, Mrs. Kopacz's previous government actually agreed, but when our government did not agree, Donald Tusk was not helpful to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u38	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Piotr Kaleta will ask a question about enabling the use of personal documents in the mobile version. A question for the Minister of Digitization. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation Mr Karol Okoński will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Very often, as a result of haste, oblivion or other events, we do not have any personal document, identity document. We have information that the Ministry of Digitalization is planning, perhaps even before the holidays, piloting the mDocuments project. This project will make it possible to confirm the identity of the citizen handling matters in the office through a special service. This is a very big step forward, but it would also be worth considering making further documents such as driving licence, registration card, OC insurance, given that technological conditions are beginning to arise to make this possible. I would therefore like to get an answer to the question whether the Ministry is planning to introduce the use of personal documents in the mobile version in the near future. If so, how will such a process be in practice and is it planned to mobilise further documents, such as the one I mentioned earlier: driver's license, registration card or OC insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u40	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, thank you very much for this question, because it also gives us a chance to talk a little bit about the activities of the Ministry of Digitalization in this area. First of all, I would like to stress that the mDocuments project responds to the real need that arises in our society and not just ours, but in general we are talking about people who appreciate, above all, the mobile way of life and the facilitation of everyday activities. And the thing is, their expectation is that the only thing they carry around is a phone, not necessarily a wallet. So we're talking about things that affect people's everyday lives. And the mDocuments project introduces a service that is an optional service, we are not talking about any introduction of an obligation, but as if giving such an option to a citizen, so that there is a credible, universal way for an official to be able to confirm his identity, whether to identify things or legal status, or the right of a citizen without having to use documents in paper or plastic form. The service is that a device which at the moment is used by an official or an official is displayed with data from a public register which are identical to those data which are normally displayed in a traditional document. Thus, the citizen is not obliged to carry traditional documents, because access to these data which are contained in mDocuments, official or official is immediately obtained on his device. This mechanism is universal, i.e. it may apply to all documents whose data are stored in state registers, and it will be similar, which will make the introduction of further documents into the mDocuments project not require any additional changes in the area of infrastructure, whether on the part of the citizen or on the part of the authorities. The only action required at a time when a citizen wishes to use mDocuments is to provide a police officer or a telephone number or a PESEL number. On this basis, also in certain cases with additional authorisation via SMS mechanism, the official displays and is able to compare whether or not to use the data he received from the register, as well as to verify the citizen, simply comparing, as with a traditional document, the image of the face that appeared to him on a computer monitor or on his device, with the face of the citizen who stands before him, dealing with the matter. What should also be emphasised is that our solution does not replace traditional evidence or other documents. This is, as I said, an optional additional possibility to confirm, where the citizen will agree to activate and start using this service. In no way does this project interfere with the current powers of the services in the area of the legitimacy of persons and the confirmation of their identity. In this area, we do not change the legal situation in any way. The whole mDocuments project has been divided into stages to gradually supplement this offer with further documents in subsequent stages. As you said, in fact, on this one the nearest so-called The road map related to the project in addition to the initially planned identity card are the driver's license, registration and civil liability insurance as those documents that we see are most popular, and it would be the greatest facilitation resulting from the mDocuments project, most noticeable to the customer and most desirable. As for the schedule of our actions, it was indeed in May this year. The piloting of this first document, m-personal evidence, is planned, while the production implementation of this service is planned at the end of June. This term is simply dependent on the legislative work related to the legal conditions for the introduction of this service. As far as further documents are concerned, the vehicle registration and OC are the documents that we plan to implement productively by the end of 2017, in the fourth quarter, while the driving licence is planned to be implemented in the first half of next year. These are the plans already identified, while we will keep track of or verify the needs of other documents that citizens need in order to use it in this project. We assume that we will gradually be able to supplement the offer of mDocuments with further documents in cycles, I do not know, quarterly or semi-annual. So much for the answer on my part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u42	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u43	I would like to thank the Minister for such a comprehensive response. We all have high hopes for the mobility of these documents. However, let me ask you an additional question. I would ask for information as to whether, in the event of this redeployment of documents, we are not in danger of data leaking or other possibility of these documents falling into the wrong hands. What if we lose or someone steals our cell phone - or at the same time we lose our identity, our data? As far as the safety level of mDocuments is concerned, will it be higher than in the case of traditional, currently used documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u44	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! So yes: I would like to assure you that there is no risk of data leaking from the implementation of this project, but it is simply related to the way in which this service is implemented, the mechanisms of preparation. Namely, in this solution the data of the citizen is never transmitted directly to a mobile phone. The mobile phone only serves as a key, as a authentication mechanism, while the data is only transmitted between the state register and the device and the application that works on the device, whether it's an official or an officer. So we're talking de facto about services that already work to some extent, and communication that already works, whether in the municipal offices or on the officers' mobile devices. We are merely using the fact that this data is already being transmitted, and we are also using the mechanisms that have already been prepared and checked in this area, additionally checking and adding another level of security when access to this data will be made available on the devices of officials or officers using no longer existing applications, but from a dedicated portal, dedicated access application, which will gain access to this data. And the level of security, as I say, transmission or data transmission will be exactly like this. Same as now. And again, for the same reason I was saying that these documents, these data are not transmitted to the phone, the mere fact of losing the phone in no way affects, does not risk losing our identity, because our identity is still protected in the state registry and in any way, apart from the apparent loss of the phone as such, it does not affect any potential data leakage. So that from this perspective this service is as safe as possible. As regards the level of reliability, safety and use, he is no worse than in the case of current personal evidence, as the official does de facto the same work - comparing the data or image of the citizen who will appear on the device with the citizen who stands before him and de facto compares it. This compares with the same procedures as before. Only the data source is changing, while the level of security or reliability of this service is the same, and in addition it is increased in certain cases even by sending additional text messages, which on the part of the citizen also... entitles the official to access his data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u46	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Mrs Dorota Rutkowska and Mrs Zofia Czernow ask a question on the supervision of the Management Board of PGE Mining and Conventional Energy SA in Bełchatów about the functioning of the energy group, especially in the light of the serious irregularities revealed. The question is to the Minister of Energy. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At PGE there are events that concern the public and may arise from the lack of proper supervision of the Management Board of PGE, and in particular of the President, over the operation of the company. We therefore address the Minister with questions. Firstly, we ask you to explain the causes of corruption detected at the Szczecin Power Plant and the consequences of the counterfeiting of biomass participation in the co-incineration process. Since when did this work take place, and who was responsible for it? Who was responsible for the lack of supervision? Szczecin Power Plant is part of the Lower Odra Power Plant, which is a branch of PGE GiEK SA in Bełchatów. Who is responsible for the directors' nominations at ZEDO and Elektrowni Szczecin, where prosecutors' charges were filed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u48	Thank you. And you're welcome, Minister. [[No, no, the other one.]] [[I'm still asking questions.]] Excuse me, question, yes, because we still have time. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How does the Ministry of Energy intend to explain to the public the accusations against the President of PGE GiEK SA Sławomir Zawada? These allegations are described in detail in the weekly "Policy No. 6" of 8 February this year and relate to the time of the previous work of the President of the Municipal Cleansing Company in Bogatynia. My question: Is it at the head of the largest energy group that produces 40% electricity in Poland, can the person to whom the allegations of forgery of documents are made stand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u50	Thank you. And this time I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Members very much for bringing these issues up. I think this is a respectable quality when, above political divisions, we see that crime has no political affiliation, and we need to eliminate it, regardless of the history of how it happened. The events I'm about to respond to here were caused by humans. Some of these people have been working since 1992. It should be noted that the companies we are talking about are companies that are in a further series. The Ministry of Energy oversees a company such as PGE, the Polish Energy Group. The Polish Energy Group has a daughter company, which is GiEK SA. Within the framework of GiEK SA there is the Lower Odra power plant, and within the Lower Oder there is the Szczecin Power Plant. Since the Polish Energy Group is a listed company, there is no legal possibility to enter the manual control here. However, there are authorities in that country whose task is to detect crime, to prove guilty of crime and to ensure that it is judged guilty by the court. At this stage, we have information from the CBA that the charges have been made. The charges were made to a group of 12 people. And basically So much we as the Ministry can say about this. We know what this was about, it was about the biomass trade. Biomass trade is indeed linked to a rather complicated paper circulation because it is linked to instruments introduced by the European Union and adapted to our legal order, which implement specific environmental policies. Therefore, the same optically, sometimes physically, biomass can be of different importance from the point of view of using it for energy purposes and explaining its status is used for documentation. If there is documentation, unfortunately there are ideas for pathology. These ideas we need to work together to fish out and eliminate them. It doesn't apply to this case, but at the moment they're e.g. biofuels which are chemically indistinguishable, despite their bio-based origin, from fossil fuels. Well, how do we know that? Everyone's afraid to put it into circulation because one is more expensive, the other is cheaper, they're indistinguishable. I am glad that Polish science comes to our rescue. Most likely, however, we have a method to distinguish between indistinguishables. The same is true, for example. With biomass tariffs, but these are digressions, I wouldn't want to deviate from the main topic. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I can answer the first question as soon as possible. 15 February 2017 to PGE Mining and Conventional Energy SA with its seat in Bełchatów, it is so-called. PGE GiEK has been notified of the initiation of an investigation by the District Attorney's Office in Szczecin on the acceptance of property benefits in the form of money, which is taking place - and here the time has not been further defined, we can only guess that this did not happen earlier than the introduction of instruments in connection with biomass, which is being burned at the power plant. The crime was committed by the employees of Szczecin Power Plant, which is part of the Lower Odra Power Plant Branch, in exchange for failure to comply with the contract's obligation to supervise quality and quality. involves the origin of the bioenergy fuel delivered to the branch by adopting biomass with properties not meeting the technical standards, which could put PGE GiEK at risk of damage to property. Member States, the burning of biomass, which does not have appropriate certificates, is not qualified as RES, is associated with the loss of certain benefits, i.e. de facto with loss. On 3 February 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 PGE GiEK has reported to the District Attorney's Office in Szczecin its participation as a victim and has submitted applications for criminal prosecution and has been working with law enforcement authorities in the case at hand. For obvious reasons, the preparatory procedure is carried out with the exception of transparency, which makes PGE GiEK currently without information and documents to answer the questions raised by Mrs GiEK. With regard to irregularities disclosed in the branch of PGE GiEK, the Management Board of the company shall immediately after its adoption. the information has taken all necessary remedial action to minimise any possible future occurrence of similar cases. No person employed as Director of the Department of Lower Odra Power Plant has been charged with committing a crime under investigation. I would like to stress that the information that appeared on the law enforcement website shows that there was a person among these people [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the rank of chief engineer. Excuse me, for the first question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u52	Thank you and I ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! PGE also includes the Turów mine. I wanted to ask you about the landslide that took place in the Turów mine, which is known as the biggest disaster in opencast mining. Why have the consequences of the landslide in the Turów mine not been made public to this day? What losses have been made, and who is responsible for them? When will the causes and consequences of this disaster be removed? Has the reconstruction programme been approved and when will its implementation begin? [[That's a good question.]] I ask you to answer these questions, as well as to supplement the second question that we have not received the answer to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u54	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u55	I'll start with Turov. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago, this information was released. On 7 March, consolidated financial statements were published on the PGE Capital Group's website. This report contains information on the landslides in the Turów mine. It should be noted that mining works related to the formation of an internal dump on which this landslide has occurred have been carried out for several decades on the basis of the design documentation and the planning of the mining plant in accordance with the requirements of the regulations in force in this area and under the supervision of the mining authority. Special expertise was carried out for the planned mining works by important research and research centres in Poland. As a result of the landslide, the roller and part of the transport system and the accompanying infrastructure were destroyed. Therefore, in 2016, the company recorded costs of 19 million, consisting of write-downs updating the value of the damaged assets and the net value of the liquidated tangible assets. Additional costs related to securing landslides and restoring technological efficiency in 2016, I note, in 2016, amounted to PLN 23 million. Estimated at 31 December of last year and at the date of publication of the consolidated financial statements, the value of investment costs and expenditures in the years 2017 and 2019 necessary for the restoration of damaged and lost assets resulting from the landslide is PLN 142 million. This amount includes, in particular, the costs related to the reconstruction of the shaft, construction and conversion of belt conveyors and the macro-climate of the internal shaft. The circumstances and causes of the landslides on the internal landslides in the Turów mine are still being analysed. For a full explanation of the reasons, experts were commissioned from scientific and research units such as the Mining and Hutnicza Academy in Krakow and the Wrocław University of Technology. However, the supply of fuel to the Turów Power Plant is carried out without any restrictions, and the operation of production units in Turów Power Plant is carried out in accordance with the plan and needs of the national energy system. So much for asking about the dump. I'll answer the second question. Let me remind you that this is about the charges against the president of PGE GiEK Mr. Sławomir Zawada. First of all, I would like to say that these are allegations made in the press, not charges brought by law enforcement. Mr. Zawada doesn't confirm these allegations, and he turned to the letter, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which published this, with a request for corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u56	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Anna Elżbieta Sobnoc and Mr Wojciech Zubowski. A question about the New Delhi Bacteria epidemic to the Minister of Health. Deputy Chief Health Inspector Grzegorz Hudzik is responsible. The first question is asked by Anna Sobeck. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u57	Thank you, Marshal. In Poland, the number of infected people who are carriers of New Delhi bacteria is increasing, which is called superbacteria. It is resistant to all known antibiotics. In most people, the bacteria is found in the intestines and harmless, but under certain conditions in people susceptible to infection it activates and causes destruction of the body, e.g. by striking. In the lungs or the urinary system. New Delhi's bacteria first appeared in Poland a few years ago. Since then, it has penetrated the environment and spread out of hospitals. This substance is the result of many negligence, among others. non-compliance in hospitals with the most important methods of interrupting the transmission of micro-organisms, such as hygiene or isolation. The dynamic development of this bacteria is a result of underappreciation for years of the problem of growing immunity of bacteria. It is also a lack of specialists in hospital epidemiology or their weak position in hospital structures. Plus, there's an unprepared hospital infrastructure, which means there's no solitary facilities. In addition, the recommendation of the National Antibiotic Protection Programme was not respected. Last year, the problem about New Delhi was not only in the media, but it was also the subject of numerous communications and recommendations. In hospitals, training and inspections were carried out. Information on the scale of the threat was presented at the Parliamentary Group meeting in June. public health and relevant information and suggestions concerning the procedure were addressed to the Minister of Health. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, therefore, what action will the Ministry take to stop the outbreak of New Delhi bacteria.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u58	Thank you. Inspector, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking me about the epidemic threat posed by Klebsiella pneumoniae type New Delhi. It is a multi-drug resistant bacteria producing an enzyme that degrades antibiotics, carbapenemmase. This type of bacteria is so dangerous, because in case of a break in immunity it can cause very difficult to treat clinical cases. The history of Klebsiella pneumoniae goes back to 2009, when it was first identified in New Delhi. The first bonfire in the Republic of Poland took place in 2014. There have been seven outbreaks of hospital infections caused by this bacteria. Ogniska occurred in Lubuskie, Wielkopolskie and Mazowieckie voivodships. In 2015, nine epidemic outbreaks were reported to the county health inspectors. These cells were registered in hospitals in Lower Silesia, Lublin and Mazowieckie voivodships. At that time, 25 people were infected, while 36 subjects with screening confirmed colonization, i.e. asymptomatic carriers. As far as 2016 is concerned, we have data by November, which are not yet fully summarized. By November there were 45 bonfires, of which 28 in Warsaw and 17 outside Warsaw. There are still 12 outbreaks of infection, outbreaks of epidemiology. Since the onset of the first cases of infection in Poland in consultation with the national consultant in the field of clinical microbiology, the Ministry of Health and the Chief Sanitary Inspectors have taken preventive measures to reduce the spread of this phenomenon. Key antibiotics and antibiotic protection are essential here, which is why the entire team of Prof. Valerie Hryniewicz from the National Reference Centre for Drugs. Sensitivity of micro-organisms has developed recommendations and procedure for detection of Gram-negative chopsticks that produce carbapenemmase. These and a number of other documents have been made available to doctors and make it easier for them to make decisions if a patient is found to be at risk for this particular bacteria. In the Mazowieckie voivodship, where the largest number of cases of Klebsiella pneumoniae infections are currently recorded, a model of the experience of the Wielkopolska voivodship, where the spread of this type of bacteria has been greatly reduced, a team was established. limits on the spread of Klebsiella strains producing carbapenemmase. Together with hospital directors from the voivodship, dedicated preventive measures are being taken to reduce the spread of infections. In view of the planned intensification of the activities currently under investigation, there is a regulation of the Minister of Health which regulates the reporting of the results of tests to Klebsiell by laboratories, the screening procedures for enterobacteriaceae sticks producing carbapenemmase or the obligation to provide patients with a Klebsiella pneumoniae type New Delhi, including carriers, with a single room with a sanitary node. These activities are aimed at reducing the spread of New Delhi bacteria. These are difficult actions, activities focused essentially on the task force. hospital infections, teams and committees. The activities of these teams are set out in the legal provisions. The problem is still quite poor understanding by health care units of the phenomenon of hospital infections. Still, some individuals do not report or report these infections, which are difficult. Unfortunately, it is a thing normally occurring in the world regardless of the level of reference, whether it is a county hospital or it is a university clinic. Hospital infections, intra-hospital infections are, exist and will exist. The issues of such an organisation and such an approach to the subject, which will reasonably counter these phenomena, are being developed. I think it's only a matter of time before this infection spreads. I trust we will be able to reduce this type of phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u60	Thank you very much. And an additional question, Madame, yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u61	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Inspector! The fires you provide differ significantly from the number of already infected and estimated individual infections, because in 2013 there were 105 infected in our country, and now this number is 1,100 infected, most of which are in Warsaw. However, these data, according to the reference centre, are not valued and certainly are much more infected. Well, actually, the New Delhi superbactery has a super resistance gene that encodes enzymes that disable virtually all antibiotics, even those last chances that are used to treat severely ill people. New Delhi's superbacteria isn't really a specific disease, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but the gene of resistance to antibiotics. If someone is a carrier, even a simple infection can lead to death, because then no antibiotic will work. That is why actions linked to health and ministry and, of course, hospitals are so important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u62	Thank you. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u63	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I agree with the Member's position that this is a reason for urgent action, an urgent leaning on the problem. The whole team of State Sanitary Inspections is really working on this problem, but it is important that doctors with experience already at the moment, with specific directions and ways to prevent the spread of this bacteria in the population, are involved. I agree on the quantity. At the moment, speaking of outbreaks according to the definition of outbreaks of infection, we are talking about at least two interrelated cases, so if we have forty-several outbreaks in 2016, 45 outbreaks confirmed, and on average there are between 6 and 8 people in the outbreak, this gives a certain number. This is the number of people who have had symptoms. We're skipping 75% here. infections of people who are asymptomatic carriers, but unfortunately these people can also pass this infection transparently to sensitive people. This is the most difficult population to detect and determine, because they do not manifest any clinical signs, but without being sick, they can infect other vulnerable people. Therefore, screening among these people is very important and very important in order to eliminate this form of transmission of this extremely dangerous bacteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u64	Thank you very much. And we move on to the next question. Member State Cezary Grabarczyk, Sławomir Neumann and Krystyna Sibińska will ask a question about the situation of PKP SA. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Andrzej Bittel will answer. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk will be the first to ask a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the current budgetary perspective, railways have to manage PLN 67 billion. Meanwhile, the President of PKP SA will be replaced once a year at the speed of light. The last change is so characteristic that it includes not only the President, but also the entire board. We find out that this has happened in scandalous circumstances in connection with the disclosure of irregularities. And these deficiencies in the PKP concern the question. Who is legally responsible for safety at railway stations? Has the State provided sufficient resources to protect the stations and which stations, in particular during World Youth Days? Did the Management Board of PKP SA inform the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction about the need for additional measures to secure railway stations during World Youth Days? When was the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction informed that PKP had concluded an agreement with Sensus Group? Was the Supervisory Board of PKP SA informed about the fact that PKP concluded an agreement with Sensus Group? Does the Supervisory Board of PKP include a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and did it take any action in finding out about the conclusion of such an agreement? Since the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction knew about the actions of the prosecution on the members of the Management Board of PKP SA [[♪ The bell ♪]] In connection with the Sensus Group deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u66	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to answer your questions. It seems that in the beginning - in order of the questions asked - it seems necessary to make it clear that in principle the national investment programme is implemented by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. So here, I don't see the threat of realization in connection with the facts that have happened recently. In order to be fully precise, it can be said that PKP SA participates in the implementation of nine railway projects covered by PLK linear projects implemented under the Operational Programme of Eastern Poland. That's how it's gonna go down. The issue of transparency of the functioning of the subordinate minister of infrastructure and construction of companies is fundamental. The rule of law is not subject to any negotiation and will never be the object of any compromise. Therefore, due to doubts as to the circumstances of the signing between PKP and Sensus Group sp. z o.o. The Minister of Infrastructure has requested the Central Anti-corruption Office to examine the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement between these companies. The above request was intended to clarify all the circumstances of the conclusion of the contract by the specialised institution and to determine whether the process ended with its signature was carried out transparently and whether there was a breach of law. The notification sent to the CBA indicated that there may have been an offence against the economic turnover indirectly liable to affect public safety and could have been an act against the company. In connection with the notification by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw on 3 March of the statement of objections to the President and members of the Management Board of the PKP of the offence under Article. § 296 § 3 and 4 of the Penal Code The extraordinary general meeting decided to revoke them from their duties. The prosecution informed that, in the course of its activities, it had determined that the suspected members of the Management Board had adopted a resolution on the acceptance of the contract for the implementation of preventive measures for the threat of bomb terrorism and then two of them had concluded an agreement with the service provider selected without a tender. Before deciding on the performance of the contract, the suspects did not verify the actual needs of the company and the need to conclude the contract and did not carry out or commission a market analysis to this extent. Nor has the contractor's reliability been verified, including its experience and feasibility of the contract been verified. As a result of these negligence, an economically unjustified contract was concluded, which at the same time led to damage to property of a great value in the company's property of almost PLN 2 million. At the same time, all members of the previous Management Board were appointed President of Mr Krzysztof Mamiński. Such rapid action was linked to the need to ensure continuity of the company's work. To put it more graphically, it was also related to the timely payment of salaries to employees. In my view, when it comes to issues related to railway stations' security, such public facilities, the rules indicate that, as a general rule, state services are involved. These safeguards, these actions of the state services should be directed towards this type of action and they are, will be taken with certainty. It could therefore be considered whether it was necessary to conclude such an agreement. On the question of whether there was a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the Supervisory Board at this particular time, I will not answer from memory. So that's a matter to complete. Was this agreement the subject of the supervisory board's deliberations? I think it might not have been because of the amount, but it's also to be specified in the statutes. I think I answered all the questions. If not, I'm asking for additional questions. I'll try to answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u68	Thank you. The additional question will also be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Your answers lacked information, answers to questions, when the Minister received a message about this agreement, when he took action, when he sent a notification to the CBA. Additional questions. How long will the PKP Board work as a single member? That's the state right now. Shouldn't there also be a change in the composition of the supervisory board? The Minister didn't say anything about it, and the public doesn't know anything about it either. Has action been taken to annul the agreement in order that the PKP, if the agreement was concluded as a result of the offence, regained [[♪ The bell ♪]] Measures? What part of this money has been paid? Finally: Is it true that the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, honorably resigned due to the ineffectiveness of supervision of the PKP company and was not accepted? If I do not receive all the oral questions, please answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u70	Thank you very much. The Central Anti-corruption Office was informed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of the case and received a request to examine the contract in question on 5 July 2016, i.e. between the date of conclusion of the contract, 6 May and 5 July of the future information, it was subject to a preliminary review and addressed to the Central Bureau of... [[That's before.]] So, earlier, yeah. [[But the changes later...]] What changes? [[Changes on the board.]] Well, changes on the board later, yeah. The information was submitted and verified by the state services, the verification ended with allegations and the changes occurred immediately. As for the changes in the supervisory board, it is necessary to check whether the supervisory board knew whether it was involved. [[Exactly.]] I'll check it out, and there'll be an answer. The PKP Board will, of course, be completed immediately so that its composition will allow for even more stable operation than today. In my opinion, President Mamiński guarantees his life experience a smooth operation. There's no problem here. I have no knowledge of Minister Adamczyk resigning. That's a fact I don't know about. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister and Member. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Marcin Horała and Mr Janusz Śniadek, a question on the announcement by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of the concept of building a new road connecting the Tri-City with Władysławów. That's a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer. Please, Mr Horal, as the first question, you are asking Mr Horal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The transport problems of Gdynia, Rumi, Redy, Wejherów, Wejherowski districts and Pucky districts in the area to Władysławów are already quite common. There are three kinds of problems, these are three main groups of problems. The first problem is the course of the S6 route since the end of the peripheral Tricity, practically urban streets, they change their names: Morska, Sobieski, Grunwaldzka, Gdańska in Gdynia, Rumi and Reda, where transit traffic is mixed with ordinary traffic, urban traffic, there are numerous collision crossings, light signals and of course practically day-to-day congestion in the morning and afternoon hours. The second problem of this region, linked, is the lack of access by national roads to the port of Gdynia, a port of strategic importance for the economy of the country, which is currently connected with the system of national roads and motorways only by the district road, Kwiatkowski's estacade, with all the related problems. And the third problem, which occurs periodically, during the holiday season above all, on long weekends, is the problem of access in relation to such areas with developed recreational function, such as Władysławowo, Jastrzębia Góra, Hel Peninsula. The inhabitants of practically the whole country, who used to spend their vacation in these areas, remember the huge traffic that actually starts with the exit gates on the A1, then they are on the Circuit Tricity, then on those urban streets I was talking about, and on the voivodeship road to Władysławów. In this context, the preliminary announcement by the Ministry about plans to build a new national road to Władysławów is very welcome. That would be complete, it seems, a solution to these problems. At the time of the previous government, these problems were ignored, partly responding to these problems, the route called the northern ring road of the Tri-City agglomeration, OPAT, was blocked, not started at all. ♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah ♪ ♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah, [[♪ The bell ♪]] once again: very pleased with these announcements and we ask you to develop information on government plans for the construction of a new national road to Władysławów.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u73	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Construction, so-called, maybe a little poetic, but I think very nicely, Via Maris, which is the road connecting Gdynia to Władysławów, the national road, has indeed already become the subject of the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, as well as the general directorate of national roads. What is the reason for this decision? In considering the problems of the Tricity agglomeration, I would like to present the situation. I think this is necessary to explain what we have been following and guiding since this work has been undertaken. First of all, the construction of the S7 route, which reaches the Tri-City agglomeration, is going well, as planned. There is a second bridge on the Vistula and there should be no danger here. On the other hand, there have been very serious problems with the construction of the agglomeration ring road Tricity, namely the decision to build it has been challenged. The Provincial Administrative Court has accepted this protest. The case went to the cassation court, the general management filed a cassation complaint in December Ub. r., but unfortunately we know that the proceedings in cassation courts take a long time and the result is unknown. If the protest is sustained by the cassation court, then this route, already planned by the Tri-City ring road, will cease to be valid, you will need to work on a new course, so again it is about the time that you will need to use for it. On the other hand, going further north, the S6 route, which today connects Gdansk with Koszalin and further - with Szczecin. The cost of construction of the route between Gdansk and Koszaline is 7 billion, it is planned for PLN 7700 million, so these are huge costs. Therefore, we are looking for a solution that will, on the one hand, provide a solution to the problems of the northern part of the Pomeranian voivodship, but above all, the tri-urban agglomeration, on the other hand, will be rational and will simply cost less. We are very close to developing a concept that will ensure the connection of Gdynia by the S6 route, more or less about the course previously planned, with the old course, in this western-north direction. It'll be a shorter stretch, but he'll definitely solve the transit problems of the northern part of the Tri-City agglomeration. On the other hand, these problems, which are related to the daily traffic of vehicles, as the honourable Member has said, are about to solve the national road which will come out according to our project - perhaps not yet a project, for the time being it is an idea, but it has already been very really analysed and work has already been done on it - and this is therefore the connection with the sea hub, the beginning of the current Tri-City ring road, following the path of OPAT. So we want to carry out this project, which for many years was very expected by the inhabitants of Gdynia, but not only Gdynia, all through the Tricity and all who travel to the Tricity. Then we want to lead this section to the city borders, to Redy, without connection to the current DK6 - possibly this section, the connection to the current national road No 6, would already be in the hands of the city of Gdynia - and further, from Reda to Władysławów on a new trail, as a national road. So we would have a parallel communication artery that would unload both daily traffic and holiday traffic, because it would be a choice. In fact, there would be three possibilities, because there is still S6, which will move more west towards Koszalin, towards Lębork, Koszalin, and there is the leading north which will lead directly to Władysławów. And this concept is officially prepared today, and in a few days it will be signed, we already have the initial variants. I would also like to stress that cooperation with the local government of Gdynia will be extremely important here, because some solutions here will also be conditional on cooperation with the city of Gdynia, and let us hope that the regional local authorities, given the importance of this project, will also participate in both the preparation and subsequent implementation of this road project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u75	Thank you, Minister. Is Mr Buffalo here? Yes. This additional question will be asked by Mr Breakfast.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will admit that this information arouses great expectations, hopes, as regards a problem that has been unsolvable for many years. The Tricity, and this small Tricity, not only Gdansk, Sopot, Gdynia, have a linear layout, but also further, to Wejherowo, Reda, Rumia, through Wejherowo - towards Lębork. There are virtually no alternatives, because the Tri-City ring road ends in Gdynia, at the beginning of the sea, then only natives can make side access there, which also clog up, reach Puck, Władysławowo. So, especially in the summer season, these four-year-old months, it's literally a pain, which is why it's a solution. You said there were three possibilities that could be created. Yes, but only after they have been built, it is both about the S6 and about the new version that is now entering part of the OPAT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, my question would be: What are the anticipated dates? Because it's not in your statement that you're defining some kind of temporal horizon, the reality of these projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u77	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Maybe I'll start with S6, that section that's going to be heading northwest from Gdynia. This investment is already prepared and we are really waiting for final decisions on the national road construction programme. The latest works are indeed finished and there are implementation decisions there. If the programme is adopted by the government, we are announcing further tenders and this section will simply enter the implementation phase. However, as far as this new national road is concerned, here we are starting from scratch, and therefore of course all preparatory work, programme work will have to be carried out, and here we will certainly have to wait a few years for this road, but I hope - given also the needs, given that we are also very much counting on cooperation with local authorities on this route, because they, I think, will be very supportive, in various ways, of this investment - that we will be able to start this investment without undue delay and then carry out it. I'm sure that's difficult, because it's going to be a major route that runs through urban areas with all the consequences, protests, which I talked about earlier, for example, in the case of the metropolitan ring road, but I hope... Surely it is the will of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction to carry out this project without undue delay, and I stress: in fact, the decisions that we are going to do this work have already taken place. I think that this week, or in the coming days, this will be formally signed either by Minister Adamczyk or by me, and we can already say that the work has started formally.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Ms Anna Czech and Mrs Barbara Bartus - on the planned amendments to the Social Assistance Act concerning the need to adapt the premises and employment of new workers. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska will answer. Please, as the first Mrs Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Referring to the regulation: looking at the results of the public consultation, I noticed that a large proportion of organisations involved in the organisation were involved in helping homeless people. Some of these comments have been taken into account, some of them of course not. At this point, I am not referring to the comments that the municipalities have submitted, but I have this question: Are the requirements of the regulation concerning the area, the opening time - above all, the area - arising from the Construction Law or from any other higher acts? I noticed that a regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure was referred to here from 12 April 2002. Why are these provisions implemented in 2017, without any derogation? Why am I having doubts? Because I know, even from an autopsy, that caring for homeless people and helping them in different places is adapted to their needs. There are places - apart from the fact that there are large ones organized by large organizations - smaller ones that serve homeless people. These are places for even a few people, changing sometimes, often enjoying it. They are simply necessary for them, they are simply complementary to the offer of large organizations. Why? Because a homeless person also has his emotions, his character, his limitations, and sometimes he is unable to function in such a large organization and find himself, he is looking for a place where he feels well, with which he identifies himself. In such an organization, in such smaller places man for man [[♪ The bell ♪]] becomes authentic reality according to St. Thomas of Aquinas. That is why I ask: Is there any possibility of derogations taking into account these particular problems I was talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u81	Thank you, Member. And the Minister, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, She referred here to the amendment, referring to the law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act, which was based on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act of 22 April 2015. It was this amendment of the law that introduced a number of changes concerning accommodation facilities for homeless people. You can say that so far, this area has not been regulated before, there have been no standards. According to the new wording of the Act, temporary shelter may be granted to homeless persons by three categories of facilities - shelter, accommodation and heating facilities have been introduced. According to this law, the amendment of this law gives delegations the introduction of standards concerning services, concerning persons, the standard of persons, the qualification of persons who provide these services, and the standard of facilities. As you have rightly pointed out, in particular the rules on the standard of facilities and the requirements contained therein result to a large extent from the Minister of Infrastructure's regulation. We could not give smaller minimum solutions at this stage. But at the same time, I would like to say that this regulation, the draft of this regulation, was based on a project that was implemented between 2009 and 2014 by most large NGOs dealing with homeless people. It was the POWER-OWS project 1.18: Creating and developing standards of assistance and social inclusion services, and this was a measure of standardising work with homeless people; developing a municipal standard of getting out of homelessness. The experience or developed standards contained in this project were used for the design of the Regulation. At the same time, I would like to stress that in accordance with Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on Social Assistance requires the provision of shelter, food and the necessary clothing for those deprived of it is one of the tasks of the municipalities, and municipal authorities are obliged to carry out the tasks in this regard. Solutions concerning shelter facilities for homeless people, i.e. in this proposed regulation we are talking about, concern those institutions that enter the social assistance system, i.e. institutions whose activities are financed by municipalities, i.e. run by local government units or run on behalf of local government units - institutions with which local government units may have contracts concluded. At the same time, if we look at the history of the creation of these standards within this project, we will notice that the organisations indicated that if these three categories of facilities were introduced: shelter, accommodation, heating room, they would not meet, for example. the standard of accommodation, they will go back one step at a time and meet the standards, heating requirements. I would like to say that at this stage we are actually at the moment before the regulation is signed. It has actually gone through the whole legislative path, we have already received it approved by the Government Legislative Centre and these standards are due to enter from 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. And Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I may start by saying that I am very happy about what came out of the research conducted by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, that the number of homeless has decreased by 2700 people in the last 2 years. That's very exciting. And I think we have to do everything we can to ensure that for those who are homeless, these conditions are as good as possible. That's why a few of my questions. First of all, referring to your answer, I wanted to ask: are these foundations, i.e. institutions, shelters run not by municipalities, but by foundations such as. The Kromek Bread Foundation, which you are chairing, can count on them to continue funding, but will have to reduce this, for example. in the heating room or in the accommodation room, whether it is so that they can obtain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Co-financing from the municipalities? The second question is also very important: Does the need for an agreement between the municipality, which is the place of origin and the municipality in which this hostel is, due to the amendment of the law, delay or make it difficult for the homeless person to find his place of residence in the hostel? And another very important thing: should not the regulation clarify the definition of an independent person? Because it's quite widely understood, and it would seem that maybe it should be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u85	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u86	...to clarify that. Thank you very, very much, Mr. Marshal, I apologize for the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u87	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, indeed, today we gave the number of homeless people. From 8:00 to 9:00, there was a homeless count, and the number of homeless people was 33 410. As far as the previous 2015 study was concerned, there were 36 160 people, even the previous ones, from 2013, there were about 30,000 people, and in 2009 there was too. This shows certain trends or phenomena that occur in the field of homelessness. As part of this last study, we also had a study on the socio-demographic characteristics that we presented today. On the other hand, referring to the question of an independent person, actually the legislator did not deliberately define this concept, because any situation of a homeless person that is directed to an institution located in that institution should be considered individually and often by defining certain concepts causes even greater problems. We have adopted such a definition, I would say, working, that a person capable of self-service is considered to be a person who, without the help of others, is able to meet his basic needs in terms of nutrition, body care or movement. So the legislator's idea was that there should not be people in these homeless facilities who cannot function on their own in everyday life, people who require 24/7 care from third parties. For these people there are other types of facilities, whether they are social services houses, or care and medicine facilities. But we see, we see a loophole in the rules. Therefore, we are already after meeting with NGOs, we had such a meeting on 21 February, and we want to change the rules in this regard so that we want to add the possibility of creating places with care services in shelters, i.e. until, for example. the person will not be in the social assistance home, because the period of decision making and waiting is longer, she can stay properly and legally in these institutions. So we're going in this direction. I would also like to stress that winter has already passed, but we also have special situations, just the winter period or other crisis situations, and always in such situations, in accordance with the Social Assistance Act, exactly art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] always in these crisis situations a homeless person can find himself in institutions and the municipality can safely pay for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u89	Thank you, Minister. Another question, on the assessment of the functionality of Natura 2000 sites - to the Minister for the Environment. Please, Mrs Agata Borowiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Natura 2000 is a form of nature conservation introduced in Poland in 2004. The main objective of the European Environment Network Natura 2000 is to preserve specific natural habitat types and species that are considered valuable and endangered throughout Europe. The second objective is to protect biodiversity. Minister, what is your assessment of the functionality of the Natura 2000 network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Natura 2000 are areas where we should be particularly concerned about our nature. I would like to ask if actions, because it is mainly the local government that makes decisions about the economy, about how to develop innovatively in this area, are not disturbing the Natura 2000 areas. How are these decisions made at all, whether the Ministry is somehow overseeing it, and really, is sustainability taken into account? I ask this because we are an integral part of the environment as people, and we should make all investments so as not to violate the system in which we operate. Here I must point out that Poland has over 900 natural areas, which have the status of Natura 2000 sites. There are various types of conflicts which, unfortunately, local authorities do not take into account, and it must be stressed that this also interferes with the functioning of this very important space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u93	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski's main conservationist of nature.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The genesis of the Natura 2000 network was observed at the end of the 1970s as a phenomenon of disappearance or reduction in the number of many species of birds. The purpose of tackling this phenomenon was precisely the implementation in 1979 of the Birds Directive, covering the protection of all species of birds and introducing part of the protection areas to ensure that this objective is achieved. As it has become apparent over the years that, despite the introduction of this directive, there are still clearly negative developments, it has been decided to widen the network of protected areas by the implementation of the so-called "protective areas." the Habitat Directive, the Habitats Directive and the designation of protected habitats, as well as habitats of protected species, to ensure that the basic objectives, such as the maintenance or adaptation of the population of avian species in the European Union are achieved at a level that ensures their survival or persistence and the maintenance or restoration of habitats of species other than birds but relevant to the Community, taking into account economic, social and cultural requirements. Using adequate funding, as well as human and institutional resources and knowledge, the following actions have been adopted under these two Directives: the designation of the Natura 2000 network in accordance with those Directives, the establishment of the necessary conservation measures for each Natura 2000 area, the restoration of habitats for species in and outside Natura 2000 areas, another objective: to monitor the presence of quantitatively protected species and the quality of their habitats. Based on these activities, based on specific monitoring data, it was intended to determine whether the Natura 2000 network is coherent, whether habitats are well protected and reproduced, whether species are protected and used by humans in a good and sustainable way. As you can see, Natura 2000 was primarily intended to be an instrument used to monitor the environment, the condition of habitats and maintain the well-being of these habitats through their use and not passive protection. The European Commission has been working for a long time to review the functioning of the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. At the moment, the opinion is being given, the consulted document Mon. A review of the adequacy of EU legislation on nature. This document shows with absolute clarity that the objectives pursued have not been achieved, so we do not know whether the Natura 2000 network is coherent or whether specific designated habitats are well protected, where they are possibly reproduced. We do not know whether species are protected well and in a balanced way, whether they are used in a sustainable way. The document also does not mention whether we have reliable data on particular species and protected habitats, or whether the public's awareness of protected areas and species is increasing or not. Based on the experience of Poland from the last year we can say that it is quite the opposite. The awareness of the European Union's society is increasingly distorted and completely inconsistent with the objectives of Nature 2000 and therefore the objectives of both the Birds and the Habitats Directives. New and disinformation completely destroys the meaning of Nature 2000. Protection comes down to two concepts: don't cut out, don't kill, and man is the greatest enemy of natural resources. Poland has seen this in the case of habitats and species important for the Community in the economic forests of the Białowieża Forest. The international pressure has resulted in the cessation of protective measures in the form of clippings in the form of tree diseases, resulting in avalanche extinction of former stands and, consequently, the disappearance of habitats and species important for the Community. What is the current state of the Natura 2000 network in Poland in terms of numbers, area? The Natura 2000 network in Poland currently occupies a total of about 20% of the country's area, consisting of 145 areas of special protection for birds and 849 areas of Community importance, in other words habitat areas. In total, there are 987 Natura 2000 sites in the country, of which approximately 56% are forested. This is proof that the forest management carried out over the last decades has been a sustainable economy, an economy moving towards sustainable management of forest resources, so as not to lose species valuable to the Community and their habitats. Agriculturally used areas occupy about 23% surface of Nature 2000, meadows and moorings - approx. 14% , wet and anthropogenic areas - about 1%. The Natura 2000 network area in marine areas is approximately 7236 km2. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u95	Thank you, Minister. Please ask the additional question of Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've heard a lot about the Białowieża Forest in recent months. There's a lot of unnecessary fuss that brings a lot of media noise around this case. This means that the actual picture of the situation in the wilderness is deeply distorted by providing partial information and lack of information. I have a question for the Minister: What is the situation with species and natural habitats in the Białowieża Forest? Can we be more specific about this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u97	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Andrzej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Bialowieza Forest, ladies and gentlemen, is a special object. It is worth to say first of all, that in the Białowieża Forest we have all the existing forms of nature conservation, which are provided for in Polish law, except for the landscape park. All these forms are imposed on each other, when the Białowieża Forest is managed by three hosts. Białowieża National Park and State Forests are three foresights: Białowieża, Browsk and Hajnówka. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 contrary to the opinion, and I would even say that without a public consultation with local governments, 10 local governments in the forest and around the country, a renominative application was made concerning the UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site. You should know that, in addition to the forest areas, the villages, the fields as well as various properties outside the forest areas were covered by this proposal, creating an area of 308 thousand. ha, without taking absolutely into account the public opinion, without conducting a public consultation. Referring to the Minister's speech, I would like to present an inventory which was carried out and initiated in the Białowieża Forest, because monitoring is the main task of running Natura 2000 sites so that proper decisions can be taken. There has been no such monitoring so far, very often the decisions to enter areas were made under pressure. We have the documents we have gathered for this. There was pressure to only achieve an ambitious coverage factor of Poland's Natura 2000 sites. We've started the inventory process. The most important object, as you know perfectly well, which meets with many different kinds, I would say, not with facts, but with factoids, and also, I would say, an element of post-truth, is the Białowieża Forest. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary illustrates his appearance displayed on board boards]] What do we got here? We have a picture on this slide of what the Bialowieza Forest looked like before gradation. This is the area of the Białowieża Forest before gradation, when the forest was intensively managed and used when it was cut six times as much wood as today. This ensured an appropriate way of protecting conservation objects, namely habitats and species. The Białowieża Forest is an outstanding example, an academic example of combining passive and active protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this situation, this area looks like it's on this slide. We've got habitat loss, species disappearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u99	You're welcome to leave, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Alien species enter these areas, or the land is flooded. Then I'll rewind very quickly, Marshal, one minute, please. No, Minister. Go ahead and finish. We're running late. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: I'm almost done. We've set up an area. We've done inventory all over the area. Most importantly, it's a primordial, mythical, untouched by human hands, as they say, and here we have about 20,000. Archaeological artifacts... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: ...related to the work of a man in the wilderness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the status of staff in the Polish diplomacy, which was presented by Kukiz Club Poselski15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Grzegorz Długo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Effective foreign policy is one of the priorities of every government, every country in the world. It must be conducted in a rational manner, in accordance with the words of Minister Waszczykowski himself, in order to defend the national interest and to give our country a certain empowerment in the international arena. A vision and idea of politicians are needed to achieve these objectives, but appropriate staff, educated, hardworking and knowledgeable diplomatic staff are also needed. Our country has many diplomats, large staffs, which with their knowledge and dedication serve our Poland, but unfortunately problems as usual begin with the head. Unfortunately, Polish diplomacy is currently simply in bad condition, both in terms of personality and in terms of awareness and objectives. Polish foreign policy lacks coordination on key issues, as well as a coherent vision of development and a comprehensive strategy of diplomatic action. Polish public opinion shakes up information about Polish diplomats, whose actions are very questionable from the point of view of the Polish state and the security of the country. For example, Mr. Robert Grey's appointment as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs was only questionable. This diploma was to be responsible for economic diplomacy and American and Asian politics, and was cancelled after 2 months due to the ambiguities arising in its context regarding contacts with US special services. In public space, the appointment of Matthew Tyrmand as a special adviser to the Minister for Foreign Affairs also echoed. communication and its rapid release after discrediting Poland's statements about Ms. Anne Applebaum. Mr Jan Parys, the head of the political cabinet of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has also shown himself to be a disgrace to our Lithuanian allies. With great surprise, the public also noted the fact that Minister Waszczykowski's advisor argued against the Sejm resolution, which condemned the crimes of UPA and the CNS. In his imprudent words he also referred to family members of people murdered by Ukrainian nationalists. I will not be angry about accidents in Belgrade here, because such events and unfortunate statements of Polish diplomats were so much that I am unable to present them in a very short speech. They're probably gonna ask my club about them later, and they're probably gonna ask my other friends. The enchantment of bitterness in everything that has happened has spilled the last revelations from Berlin when it turned out that our ambassador in Berlin, Prof. Przyłębski, is registered as TW Wolfgang. The government should not lead to such situations at all, I take it even personally as an honor. The government supposedly intends to introduce a law that will prevent former security staff from serving in diplomacy, but the law itself, even if the idea is right, will not improve the quality of our diplomacy, because our diplomatic staff needs, yes, experienced, loyal, well-educated specialists, but also needs an idea and a coherent vision, which is to serve, and that is clearly lacking. The bill, which is planned, will be another human resources bill, but only in terms of the exchange of human resources, not the improvement of the quality of human resources, and that is its - incorporated into this law, into the project for the time being - a defect. It is worth considering whether Polish diplomacy has any overall strategy on matters of extreme importance for Poland, such as choice the new President of the European Council or the adoption by the European Parliament of Ceuta agreements. With regard to the election of the new President of the European Council, it is already the fact that today's statements by the Minister completely discredit if we learn from the Minister that this position is not needed at all. As time passes, I'll go straight to the questions. The question is: Is the Council of Ministers planning to take action to reform Polish diplomacy and improve human resources? diplomatic service [[♪ The bell ♪]] Except for the personal cleanup? Does the Council of Ministers envisage changes to the legal system in order to change this situation? And does the Council of Ministers have a coherent vision of Polish foreign policy, how does it want to ensure proper coordination of the activities of all actors involved in achieving the goals of Polish diplomacy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for taking up this important subject. Personally, as a parliamentarians with a three-seater internship, I have repeatedly criticised the work of our diplomats. In dealing with Polish issues, I sat with many of you on the Communication Commission with Poles abroad. We were very irritated in previous terms by the fact that during the time of Minister Sikorski, former officers of the Polish United Workers' Party were sent to serve as general consuls, people responsible for contacts with Polonia, and their fellow countrymen abroad, there were even cases of offering us secret security officers. It was during the PO-PSL coalition. We've been blocking these nominations personally here with some of you. Why? Because it is something particularly immoral, especially bad, if people who often worked for the old system are sent to contact Polonia, they often worked in a camera that caused our people to flee from Poland. Today, on behalf of the free Republic, he would have... [[It's dull.]] ...to be represented by a candidate associated with the old system. We protested it. That's unfortunately... [[Nitras, shut up!]] ...was quite often. [[It's dull.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, can you calm one of the...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u103	Yes. I ask you to remain calm. [[I'd like you to refer to Przyłębski.]] Sir, take it easy. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: The problem is that in 1990, a person who completed his studies, was 23 years old and joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today he is 50 years old. This is the best testimony that people associated with the former services, working in the former services before 1989, are simply unnecessary, are harmful. Indeed, our bill wants to eliminate such persons. We already know that there are over 100 people among the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have admitted to the public or secret cooperation with the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic. And now the question is why these people have been tolerated for so many years. Isn't there people in Poland who can work for Polish diplomacy? We want to change that. I will add that we do not know how many people will be questioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in addition. So we are waiting for these changes, this law is going to propose these changes. We just want to finish with the Polish People's Republic in Polish diplomacy. Over the past 28 years, many new services, new institutions, have been created in Poland, most of the others have been reformed. In diplomacy, this reform was not felt enough, and that is why we want to finally introduce it. The reform aims to end the Polish People's Republic also in the organisational dimension, also in the fight against bureaucracy, also in the dimension of restoring diplomacy in Polish diplomacy. What do I mean? Ladies and gentlemen, a handful of statistics. In terms of employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, less than 20 people work in the Department of America, in the Department of Asia and the Pacific not much more than 20, in the Department of Eastern Affairs about 30 people, while in the Department of Foreign Service 180 people work in the Department of Administration also 180 people, in the Office of Information Technology and Telecommunications over 100 people. It shows a lot. In one such administrative office there are more employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am talking about these substantive ones than in offices dealing with particular issues of global diplomacy, particular regions. It is pathology, it is also an element of bureaucracy, pathology of the Polish People's Republic. We want to change this, we want Polish diplomats not to handle administrative services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, only to carry out diplomacy of the Republic of Poland, conduct, implement Polish foreign policy. And this is the clou of our reform. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few more words about statistics. I am close to the consular service, which I am honoured to oversee as Minister responsible for Polonia: in 2008 consular services carried out about 1,100 thousand. consular activities - it will certainly interest you as an old consular office - today we are realizing, attention, 2450 thousand. consular activities per year, more than twice as much, whereas consular posts are less than when we did twice as much. Isn't that pathology? Isn't that the right thing to change? This all happened during the previous coalition and we want to change it. Dear Member of the Commission, who requested our discussion, said that diplomacy is now in bad shape. Well, diplomacy is now coming out of a bad state that we have seen in many recent years. Now we want to bring about the fact that diplomats will be engaged in substantive work, not administrative work, and we want to introduce the authentic attitude of the state service. We often meet with the attitude of treating work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as an ordinary job, from hours. 8 to 16. No, this is service to the Polish state and we want to restore this ethos. We want to eliminate pathologies, these pathologies are associated with processes often occurring even for decades - family clanality, even such names as Bierut, at the head. That's all we want to eliminate. The only criterion for evaluating work in Polish diplomacy will be the substantive commitment to work, the approach to foreign service duties. We want to introduce a professional diplomatic academy - it is already there, but we are expanding its scope, we want to ensure that the current employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also develop in this academy. Imagine that in terms of substantive development related to foreign service work, there has been no such training for more than 20 years, now we are introducing it. There have been trainings in computer, administration, etc., while as far as the substantive approach is concerned, there has been no such training. We want our diplomats to develop their skills as they do in other countries. The Polish diplomat, of course, receives and in recent years has received a lot of gadgets, equipment, while constant problems such as writing a good note, good also, good analysis are observed. Unfortunately, that's not often there. I think the best example was the attitude of Minister Sikorski, who, hardly anyone remembers this, but it is worth recalling that he employed a British diplomacy member to write his speeches because he could not possibly find... [[Oh, that's right.]] Unless there are other reasons I think we're not discussing right now. But he could not, in the most optimistic amongst these dramatic assumptions of the version, simply could not find a good diplomat in the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs who would write him speeches. If you know another reason, you'll probably say here from the Platform. And that's our opening. Already now, ladies and gentlemen, at the Diplomat Academy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepares for the work of diplomats twice as many young people as it was in previous years, twice as many. And we want to make sure that these young people are still several times more in the future than they were in the last eight years. We want to let well-prepared young people into Polish diplomacy. We want, you can say, to open Polish diplomacy to many young people. What was in previous years: no listeners or e.g. 10, 15, this is not an opening. We want to open the door wide to young people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Already I will show you that among the entire Polish administration we have accepted the most graduates of KSAP and we also want to open up to this group of well prepared young people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we will be discussing this here in the second part of my speech. We want to end the Polish People's Republic and in this dimension... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: ...agental, and in dimension also... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: ...organizational. It's time for a new diplomacy. And that's what we're doing right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to cordially welcome the tour of Turku and the Turkish district, which is listening to our debate. [[Applause]] [[From Turk.]] I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. At this point, however, we have the following problem: 50 people came forward, we have an hour to ask questions, so I have a proposal to reduce the question time to a minute. [[Voices from the room: No.]] Good. If you do not agree to a minute shorter, there is a risk that some Members will not ask a question. [[Voices from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] There's 50 people, we've got an hour, it's gonna be too long anyway. [[Let's not fart.]] [[Voice from the room: One minute with tolerance.]] One minute with tolerance. Okay, sir? One minute with tolerance. Okay, good. [[Voice from the room: 30 seconds is enough.]] Please, Mrs Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u104	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Professionalism, patriotism, action in the interest of the Polish state - such goals were set by Minister Waszczykowski before the Polish foreign service. These are the goals that are being pursued today by Minister Dziedziczak. The Polish foreign service must be opened to young and educated people, as Minister Dziedziczak said today. This work was started at the time by Minister Anna Fotyga and we remember this disgusting attack of various backgrounds, even the hat that the Minister had to deal with. Other ministers were no longer interested in changes in the Ministry. Independence patriotism, CV were not priorities in the HR policy of the Citizen Platform and PSL. Question, Minister. How large a staff exchange can we expect after the amendment of the Foreign Service Act has been adopted? I'll ask you more clearly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many former employees, officers or collaborators of the Special Forces of the Polish People's Republic still work in the Polish foreign service? I remind you, the Minister mentioned more than 100 people who filled out a positive sample statement. Minister, will we finally be able to announce the end of the Polish People's Republic in Polish diplomacy after this law has been passed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u105	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a sad day. for all of us in Polish diplomacy, because right now Polish diplomacy is being compromised in Brussels by a fight that cannot be won. Plus, we have chaos, very strange nominations in the Polish diplomatic service, disclosure of classified documents, which is very strange. Minister Waszczykowski could only be commended for not throwing all diplomats blindly so quickly. I have a question. Is this bill an excuse for absolute cleaning at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister? Because the PRL ended 27 years ago, and the fact that you're saying you're only gonna fight UB co-workers... [[But the officers are continuing, and you haven't done anything about it in eight years.]] ...it's kind of funny that I'm going to quote Mr Nitras in the context of what's going on with Ambassador Przyłębski. What's this HR review gonna look like? Will it dominate only the loyalty criterion, just like you throw out police officers, soldiers, officials? And I wanted to ask you one very specific thing, because you're planning to put people on the service of European cells. These people, European lawyers with extraordinary knowledge, people who coordinate politics [[♪ The bell ♪]] European, they're needed here to tell you what mistakes you make, because that's what diplomatic service is for. I hope that for punishment, for telling the truth, for trying to advise you in a meaningful way, you will not send them to the office in grade III of the secretary, e.g. To Bratislava, you will only use them here. Don't destroy what's the work of the Republic of Poland for the past 27 years... [[PRL.]] ...and don't throw the specialists out of work because you're gonna pay for it. Not the PRL. Those who worked...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u107	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u108	...at the office of the integration committee, they were employed in 1990.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u109	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u110	They're all young people. [[Voice from the hall: But in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs almost 200...]] Don't tell the truth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: We are talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u111	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister Dziedziczak, From 30 September 2016 to 29 November, the undersecretary of state in your department was a person who, according to media reports, cooperated with the CIA. Minister Waszczykowski denied, indicating that Mr Grey would be transferred to another position in connection with the change in the concept of management. Questions. What position is Mr. Robert Grey now in the department if he hasn't been called off, just moved away? Is it true that the Internal Security Agency, which has information about your announcement of cooperation with foreign services, did not provide the Minister's documentation for fear that the Minister could reveal the sources of information to Polish services to foreign intelligence? Who, by name, signed a request to allow Mr. Grey to enter classified information and what level was requested? Finally, would Mr Grey receive knowledge of employees and co-workers of Polish intelligence in America and Asia as part of his duties? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS Many times he has fought against people who were suspected of collaborating with the SB and other communist services. PiS politicians have been writing anti-communist slogans on their foreheads for years. So, using PiS rhetoric, today we want to ask the Ministry why PiS supports as ambassador of a man who could possibly be a mirror liar and a secret collaborator... [[Voice from the room: Maybe.]] [[It can't. It's just there.]] ... SB reporting on its own family and why it does not support an open and informed collaborator of the democratic anti-communist opposition Donald Tusk, who is running for head, President of the European Council. Who do you think represents Poland better? [[Applause]] [[He acted against the interests of the Republic of Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: It hurts Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u115	Thank you. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u116	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think the answer to our diplomatic policy is already here. This is HR policy, HR exchange. And that's what's important. I don't think that's what diplomatic politics and diplomacy are all about. Isn't it that we're subjecting the whole diplomatic policy to our internal battles so that the PiS can show that this... [[Dezubekization.]] ...who is not with us in Poland, who is the opponent? And today, the question is what is our policy on European integration. Is it that we want to come out of a common Europe? Because that's what you think today. Do we have a position in this regard? What are Polish diplomats supposed to say outside of what is happening today in Brussels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u118	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Poles in Lithuania do not have the right to write down their names according to spelling and family tradition. In the saltic region and in the Vilnius region Poles represent more than 2/3 of the population and unfortunately do not have the right to use Polish in public life. They can't put street names in our language either. Especially bad is that for 27 years Poles in Lithuania have not returned the wealth that the Soviets once took away from them in practically one day. The Polish State is providing financial support Poles in Lithuania, however, according to the information provided to me, the media using these funds allow statements against Poles and Polish schools in Lithuania, even though Polish schools are better than Lithuanian schools. The task of Polish diplomats is to ensure that such events do not take place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, when and when will you carry out an urgent exchange of personnel in diplomacy, so that representatives of us will care about the Polish state's right? What is the government planning, what steps are we going to take to get the wealth taken from the Poles there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u120	One of the messengers in her anti-communist act 27 years after communism asked how many diplomats work for the Security Service. I will ask in writing, Minister, to answer the question of how many collaborators of the secret services of the Polish People's Republic have been employed as diplomats by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or by this government in the last year and a half. And I ask you to answer in writing how many PRLs of secret service associates you've hired, except for Mr. Przyłębski. In the explanatory memorandum of the law we are talking about, you wrote: Foreign Service - Polish of course - in its present form - is not only a legal successor, but also a direct continuation of the diplomatic and consulary service rooted systematically in the Polish People's Republic. That's bullshit, of course. I would also like to ask you - this is also in writing - how many employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been employed, and please provide information in percentage terms, after the period of the Polish People's Republic, and in the case of how many employees working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... [[During the Polish People's Republic.]] ...this is a continuation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] means how many are still employed in the times of the Polish People's Republic. I would like to tell you that your diplomacy is exactly like the Donald Tusk spot that PiS released yesterday. She's lying, disgusting. [[Not about that. Home.]] That's what I'm talking about. That's your diplomacy. Look, Poles, you're proud of it. That's how you guys are having a debate. [[Have some cold water, sir.]] I would like to ask the Minister what art is for. 7...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u121	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u122	...a draft bill that says in six months...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u124	...you can release any diplomat in Poland. Same... [[After a while.]] ...you fired journalists, just as you fired people in... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u125	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u126	... The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture... [[But, Marshal, equal rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u127	Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u128	...and you treat diplomats the same way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u129	Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u130	Diplomats... That sentence must sound, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u131	It won't come out, no one can hear you. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Financial penalties.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u132	...they are patriots and competent men, not traitors serving other countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u133	If you're done, leave the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u134	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u135	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In July 2016, you established the position of Special Advisor to Minister for Foreign Affairs. communication. You've entrusted this function to Matthew Tyremand. This counselor, as we read, responds, among others. for preparing analyses, recommendations for shaping relations with media and opinion-making environments. The special advisory service was provided by the minister's secretariat and expenses were to be covered by the Polish embassy in the USA. On 1 October 2016, you terminated your agreement with Mr Tyrmand after an anti-Semitic attack on the wife of former foreign minister Radosław Sikorski on the portal. Questions about that. Were anti-Semitic attacks in the media against Minister Sikorski, his wife and Minister Rostowski and his daughter commissioned or coordinated by the Secretary of Minister Waszczykowski, in accordance with the agreement, and the Polish Embassy in the USA? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question: To what other people was Mr. Tyremand preparing attacks on behalf of the MMA? And third question: What amounts were paid to Mr Tyrmand by the Polish Embassy in Washington during the contract? And fourth: What exactly were the analyses and forms of activity commissioned to Mr. Tyrmand, which documents he provided to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Which of them were free of charge, and for which did the Home Office pay? Question five, last question: Who is currently a special adviser to the Minister and does the MMA publish a list of other people whose task is to attack the opposition with knowledge, consent, on behalf of the MMA? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. I would like to warmly welcome the delegation of the Grand Chural of Mongolia with the president of the Mongolian-Polish parliamentary group, Mr Daamba Ochir. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question about the state of Polish diplomacy today is a rhetorical question. Everyone can see that Polish diplomacy lies on its shoulders today, and the whole of Europe is watching the countdown to ten. I have a few questions. How many people in the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs besides Minister Grey have dual citizenship or residency in other countries? What is the scale of dismissals among ambassadors and consuls during the rule of law and justice? Is it true, or is it actually true, because the Minister has already said that, in connection with the planned amendment of the Foreign Service Act, there is a list of persons sentenced to release. I already asked that during the exposition of Minister Waszczykowski, but I did not get an answer to that. I'm not asking if this list was consulted with the management of the PiS, because it's obvious that every list has the approval of the management. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the light of the current compromise of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, do you consider a state of honor to get out of this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u140	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Working in foreign service is a wide range of tasks requiring its representatives of exceptional care, professionalism and diplomatic skills, but also a strong internal sense of patriotism, ties with their country and continuous internal need for action for and in the interests of the sovereign and independent Polish state. It is no secret that until 1990 both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic institutions were dominated by the secret services of the Polish People's Republic and representatives of the security apparatus, as well as graduates of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations. And as much has been said for years about the need to change the structure of foreign service, no ruling crew has dealt with this problem. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: Are there still people in the diplomatic service who are negatively affected by the past's legacy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if so, what is the scale of the system, and what is the government going to do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Observing your activities in diplomacy... [[Your actions, your countries.]] ...especially recently, one can say that it is not surprising that you are so carefully trying to eliminate diplomatic service in Poland, because you do not really need diplomatic services. [[What are you impputing us here, sir? You broke up with reason.]] The tool of Polish diplomacy becomes blackmail, it becomes a fight. What you're doing has nothing to do with diplomacy. Fighting and blackmailing instead of diplomacy - you don't need diplomats for that, you just need obedient performers. [[Secrets!]] And that's what you're doing. I have a question: Where do so many cases come from in the diplomatic service of people who are co-workers of foreign intelligence or who have made false illustrative statements? [[Mostly from your eight-year-olds.]] I want to ask because we know two such cases: Mr. Grey and Mr. Przyłębski. In the meantime, you have called many ambassadors. I want to ask you how many of these ambassadors have been checked out by the National Remembrance Institute. 'Cause it was Minister Waszczykowski's announcement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in an exposé, that they will be thoroughly checked. In the case of Przyłębski it turned out that such checks were not at the Institute of National Remembrance. Perhaps we still have others who have concealed their past. And last question: What means in the proposed novel of the Foreign Service Act a record of a six-month withdrawal period during which a review of foreign service personnel will be carried out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u143	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u144	...will employment contracts or terminations be assessed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u145	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u146	Because it is, Minister, extremely disturbing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u147	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about future elections in France and Holland. Clearly, the presidential elections in the United States, which took place, showed that we did not have an identified political scene. What does that mean? Probably most of our diplomatic base bets, thought you'd win Clinton, but it turns out the Americans decided otherwise. And was that the result of the wrong calculations or the wrong facilities we have in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Will this mistake not be repeated in France now? Because it is not said that the candidate who today is the mainstream's pet candidate will win. And that's the question. Do we have the right facilities that are able to make contact with all candidates today, here I give an example of France, so that if there is any [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any other results come in contact with the person who wins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of his term of office, the PiS government has been fighting against those who have cooperated with the former communist authority. They started by dezubecating the streets, then they were reducing pensions or destroying President Lech Wałęsa's good name. [[Very good.]] [[He destroyed himself, sir, he destroyed himself.]] You could say it's one of your priorities. However, the PiS government forgot to clean up the people cooperating with that authority from its ranks. We have recently been able to learn about a secret co-worker of Wolfgang's. Minister, please answer: At what stage is verification of this information? If it turns out that Ambassador Przyłębski was a secret collaborator, will there be consequences for him? [[It's a good record.]] What are the consequences? One last question. Who could be the successor to Ambassador Przyłębski? Honestly, I have a candidate for this job. This is Mr. Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, because as we have heard recently, he is looking for a new class. [[Applause]] [[Is that supposed to be funny? Pathetic, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u151	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish diplomacy needs professional and competent staff, which will represent Poland's Republic well beyond its borders, staff that will protect Poland's sovereignty and protect its interests in relations with other countries. The years of government of the PO have led to a situation in which the workers of diplomacy are often insufficiently connected with the Polish state, persons without proper preparation or, even worse, having a questionable past. And yet it is unacceptable that the workers of diplomacy continue to be people... [[Minister Grey.]] ...who are secret collaborators of the Polish People's Republic services, graduates of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, MGIMO, and incompetent persons. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the following question: According to the Ministry's estimates, how many more diplomacy workers have completed the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, MGIMO? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! I feel sorry for the Minister for having to explain his intention to such an obvious, visible one: in the next service, you simply want to clean up. Secret Service, Security Services, Human Resources Cleansing and Disaster, one after the other. The same thing will happen in diplomacy, and you can see it with the naked eye, so do not tell me that you want to liquidate the Polish People's Republic nomenclature because you are de facto restoring it with nominations such as the nomination of Ambassador Przyłębski. But most of all, you want to do a PiS nomenclature. This is PRL bis, PRL PiS. Party nomenclature instead of diplomacy acting in the interests of Poland, the whole state, all citizens and above all in the national interest. [[Don't insult Polish diplomats, really.]] Poland is not yours and you must turn your back on it. Maybe it's a good thing for Minister Fotyga to be a good example here, because at least she didn't say anything, she didn't do much, and sometimes in diplomacy it's better not to do it, because when you do it like it does today, it really comes out the damage itself. [[That's hypocritical.]] I appeal for restraint. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u155	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a personal question about people who are employed in Polish diplomacy. I mean Mr Przemysław Żurawski, aka Grajewski. I know your views, Minister, we have often discussed various topics, especially regarding Poles in the Kres and Polonia abroad. I am therefore surprised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accepts Mr.Przemysław Żurawski, a.k.a. Grajewski, as Minister of Foreign Affairs's advisor, who became famous for his advice that in 2013 he advised PiS Members of the House of the People's Republic of Poland against condemning the crimes of UPA in Poles. In a discussion with a person who denies the Volyn crime, i.e. the President of the Ukrainian Union in Poland Mr.Piotr Tyma, Mr. Przemysław Żurawski a.k.a. Grajewski said these words: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stupid in every nation in abundance, unfortunately. Fortunately, people who call themselves border environments do not rule the Republic. Accept, Peter, please, my solidarity in this matter. I ask: What is the staff policy of PiS and what is the historical policy of PiS if you accept such a person in such a position? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I see there is no Minister Waszczykowski in this important debate. He went to ruin Poland's opinion in Europe. This is a disaster. [[Ho, ho, ho...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the troglodytes of diplomacy, conscious of the troglodytes of diplomacy - this is a phrase that is pressing on the lips when we see how PiS in its own particular, party interest destroys Poland's opinion in Europe and destroys Poland's opinion in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you if there is nothing to be said about the Polish national interest, such as Patriotism, like citizens, that you do such things? Minister, I also wanted to ask about HR policy, because I hear that when it comes to selecting new people for diplomacy, these criteria have been narrowed down to such a well-known wording of the BMW: passive, mediocre, but faithful... [[Don't insult the Polish diplomats.]] ...and the key element, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which confirms this kind of competence, there is an earlier cooperation either with foreign services or with the services of the Polish People's Republic. Minister, I ask you to answer this question, preferably in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u159	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u160	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! During my parliamentary work in May Ub. I made a business trip to the United States. I met there with representatives of various Polish organizations, I conducted a series of talks, including individual ones, with our fellow countrymen. They have repeatedly pointed out that the involvement of consulate and embassy staff in their affairs is too small. Recently, we have seen the tide of young and well-educated diplomats. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plan to increase the number of committed and well-prepared workers who will be employed in diplomatic offices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u161	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, Minister, don't you have a sense of grotesqueism when you intend to mass-clean your staff? I understand that this will involve the expulsion of a lot of people, and you cannot effectively send one man to the embassy to be an ambassador, so that you can check him out and not have any trouble later. This is the first thing. Second thing. It is a pity that Minister Waszczykowski is not here, because I would like to ask what he has been doing at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1992. I understand he's been surrounded for 25 years by Moscow school graduates, agents, etc. Shouldn't he have escaped his service in 1992? And the third thing. If you are also going to lead to the fact that if someone was a co-worker of the secret services of the Polish People's Republic, this also applies to the family of this person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this gonna work the other way? Then what will you do with the head of the Constitutional Tribunal if the information on the ambassador in Germany is confirmed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u163	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u164	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions. Firstly, the Civic Platform and the PiS do not differ from each other at all. I have a question about the Director General of Foreign Services, i.e. Andrzej Jasionowski, an unfortunately unsuccessful ambassador in Serbia, who is at the moment one of the most important officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am already overlooking the circumstances of its operation in the case of Serbia. I'd like to ask you about this man. Second thing. I have submitted an interpellation, Minister, on the issue of requesting for 60 years by the Gdansk Council, which is striking Polish territorial integrity very clearly, and the state has basically ignored such serious signals concerning the institution. And the third thing. I could trade it here. 220 names - Cibulla, Bojanowicz, Budetki, Bykowski, Chmura, Czarnecki, Berwick, Chwaliszewska, Kasprzyk - people who were secret associates. Therefore, you do not differ at all or are wrong, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or you can't manage the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So secret co-workers can function? We talked about this a year ago. One last thing, Minister. The only thing you've accepted and, glory to God, you've accomplished is the postulate of the Kukiz Club15 on the Diplomat Academy. We're just thanking you for that. [[Applause]] [[But what academy?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. [[It's been working since 2002.]] [[But that's not how it works.]] Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like the Minister to serve here today. We're all very specific. What are you doing about Ambassador Przyłębski? How do you approach this case? It's been a week, and we still don't really know what your position is, what will be the decision on the ambassador. Last week, a briefcase was released in which an SB officer registered under Mr. Przyłębski's alias. In this reporter's briefcase, there is an annotation that Mr. Przyłębski should be trained to work for Department I of the MMA, and we know that it was military intelligence. Are you doing something about that? And the second question is, did you order a check on all diplomatic personnel at the IPN? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u167	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u168	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! One thing we can do, Minister, is agree with you. Namely, it is necessary to modify the law on diplomatic service so that there is no more embarrassment that takes place in Berlin, where Ambassador Przyłębski is acting. I recommend to you yesterday's extensive article in Süddeutsche Zeitung, entitled "His Excellency 'TW Wolfgang'. Besides, the ambassador had his predecessor, Mr Muszyński, the current judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, who was expelled from Berlin in 1996 and who concealed the fact of cooperation with the services. I think that diplomacy must be taught primarily by this government, because it uses a language that offends our partners in the Union and does not serve to build constructive dialogue. In this respect, training is certainly necessary. And the lack of support for Donald Tusk as head of the European Council is shame, embarrassment and ridicule in the international arena. Quickly moving on to the bill, I have the following questions. Is it right to fear that the bill will affect not only the officials employed during the Polish People's Republic, but also those who started work after 1989? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, the acceptance of new working conditions and wages will be an instrument of emphasis on those who do not share the idea of good change or misunderstand the group solidarity mentioned in the justification for the project. Minister, what are the criteria for deciding whether to work under new conditions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is no secret that the Polish Ambassador to Germany Andrzej Przyłębski does not have more than average experience in administration and outstanding achievements in diplomacy, and he is the head of the most important institution for Poland for political, economic and geostrategic reasons. A diplomat with the highest competence and good reputation should sit in such an important institution, and I don't think we can include membership in the Socialist Union of Polish Youth or the fact of being a secret collaborator of the Security Service with the code name Wolfgang. Moreover, this fact should be strictly disqualified. I don't want to ask you a question, I'm just asking the question: When will the Polish Ambassador be called off in Germany, Mr Andrzej Przyłębski in Berlin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fighting the Polish government against Donald Tusk is aberration. I don't think there's been anything like this in Europe since I remember Europe. Your criteria are, of course, terrible. They're non-European, they're non-Polish, they're PiS. You are pursuing the PiS state's right. The Polish state is completely different, we have other interests. PiS-owska state rations implement the provisions of Jarosław Kaczyński and the party of PiS, not the Polish society. I therefore have a question: Will the proposed law, as in the case of courts, as in many other areas we are talking about here, also use the criteria of collective responsibility? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice accelerates the announced changes in Polish diplomacy. Is it true, Minister, that there are still diplomats trained in Moscow in foreign service? Is it true that new solutions are meant to lead to the vetting of people who were engaged in diplomacy before 1989 and are still in service? The common truth is that the first head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after 1989 did not do the right thing in diplomacy. Should people in Moscow schools work in foreign service? If we are talking about the state of our diplomacy today, we need to mention how these actions are seen by the national or foreign press. For example, the Germans' "Facts'recently beat the minister quite openly, admitting that the reason for the criticism was the lack of proper consultation of his actions with Berlin. From the very beginning there has been an unbroken press attack, which in Poland is essentially in the hands of foreign capital, [[♪ The bell ♪]] mainly German, for the actions of the Polish government. Minister, does this continuous attack of foreign media to the Polish state have a positive or negative impact on the functioning of Polish diplomacy? The Law and Justice Government sees Polish foreign policy differently from its predecessors. Minister, do you have the right, or even the obligation, to choose the participants of these actions according to the needs of the new policy or not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u175	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the bill, present diplomats have insufficiently strong ties with the Polish state. On the basis of what criteria will potential new candidates for diplomatic service be assessed in order to have strong enough links with the Polish State? Do they have to be criteria of competence, knowledge and knowledge of languages, as so far, or are they just supposed to be diplomatic Misiewicz, party, PiS-ovski activists, medieval, but faithful, devoted parties of Jarosław Kaczyński, through whom you will unfortunately ridicule Poland even more easily than in the last 1.5 years? PiS announced that Poland in foreign policy had to get up from its knees and, meanwhile, lies spread over its shoulder blades. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order not to give hope to improve the situation, as he calls it, reform Polish diplomacy. He wants to politicize it, just like state offices, institutions and companies of the Treasury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now the action of Miesiewicze is to be carried out in foreign institutions. As you can see, the people of good change are many, and the stools in the country are missing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u177	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I want to go down to this lower level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's exactly the legal department. I would like to ask you why lawyers, and what lawyers they are, in the opinions of the European Court of Justice, do not tell the truth and slander Polish citizens. Here's the first example, short. The chronicity of cases according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the accused or defendant citizen makes too long statements or defends himself. Is it customary that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs violates human rights and its lawyers as well? I would ask for an answer in this case, because in this case I filed a written complaint. The Ministry's final response was this. You explained that this was reported by the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice said that it was served by the district court. In the end, you said, "You're not gonna do anything to us because we're protected by immunity." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I very much regret that Minister Witold Waszczykowski does not listen to this debate, but I understand that in Brussels he convinces himself to apply for Jack Saryusz-Wolski. The Minister spoke about a new law on foreign service. You're planning a purge, it's obvious, a Bolshevik purge: throw everyone out, hire your own. I fundamentally disagree with this because I think it is wicked, it is contrary to Polish interest, because it is to interrupt the continuity of foreign service. I'm afraid of something else. The question is, Minister, do you have any counterintelligence security for the new people you're hiring? Grey and Przyłębski's case shows that you have no counterintelligence security and you're not investigating these people. Second question. Minister, do you think that Paris is an important capital in Europe? I'm afraid not. If so, why hasn't the ambassador been in this important capital city for six months? Minister, the government has not led, as I have pointed out for a long time, any foreign policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The worst part now is what we see now, that instead of diplomacy you are using hate sessions, which shows this spot you've prepared. [[Applause]] [[The truth hurts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u181	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Lenz, don't leave. Just a moment ago, you raised the question that foreign diplomacy should have appropriate education and qualifications. I am curious whether you have read the 2014 Supreme Audit Chamber report from the Civic Platform and the PSL, where it is clear how you have employed foreign diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, then Minister of Foreign Affairs Radosław Sikorski very often abused the unique mode, despite the competition mode, and employed a person in diplomacy without any applications. Besides, in terms of knowledge of foreign languages, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't. this is, of course, a criterion that was taken into account by the governments of that time. Minister, I have a question. Is it true that under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL in foreign diplomacy, a person with experience, ladies and gentlemen, attention, professional position: waiter and seller? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u183	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u184	Good morning. [[Hello?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not like we don't know your laws. Your laws have already appeared in many places in the Polish country, e.g. in the Polish army. What was the result of the elimination of competitions in various agencies, in the army and replacing experienced generals with different Misiewicz? The fact is that 25 generals, 250 colonels, countless lieutenants and majors have left the army. We know exactly what ends with your laws that are supposed to eliminate any criteria in assigning positions anywhere. They run out of Misiewicz. Everywhere, every time, it ends the same way. I would compare you to an octopus in a Polish country, but I would offend octopus, so I will simply compare you to cancer in a Polish country. That's what you do. Every time you show up, you expand your cell phones, you own another one... [[Horrible.]] ...the institutions of the state only to have positions, because all that matters to you is power for power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't exercise authority for something, you exercise authority for power. That's the worst part. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mirror reflection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about this little farce, about what is happening today in Brussels, not in Malta, but in Brussels. This is about the proposal that the Polish Government has made for the President of the Council to become, by the way, a great specialist, Saryusz-Wolski. Why has the Ministry done nothing - and has admitted to it that it has not done anything - to make sure that there is more than one vote for this candidate, even if it is likely to be a candidate? Why waste such good experts, burn them and compromise them in such an inefficient way as in the proposal? Why didn't Poland do anything to promote it? Why Poland ultimately threatens to break the summit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] without signing the final protocol? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that Polish diplomacy, the diplomacy of a country with almost 39 million inhabitants, should be in all countries of the world is undoubtedly true, although not everyone believes that. Minister, I have two questions and one additional question that came to my attention during the speeches of my predecessors. First: Can we say today that the quantitative state of Polish diplomacy is sufficient? Second: Does the qualitative state of HR correspond to the Polish state? And the additional question: Is it true that the government is not conducting any foreign policy? That's the way it's been said here. I have a request to my colleagues, my fellow Members, for balanced words, for responsibility for words. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please don't tell the Poles the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u189	Thank you very much. I have a request for you to watch your time, because not everyone will make it if you don't watch your time. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You already have a law that does not contain specific criteria for the dismissal of foreign servants or for the appointment of new staff. Apart from Minister Waszczykowski, none of our diplomats has ever been so embarrassed by the establishment of diplomatic relations with non-existent countries, the identification of interstate relations with Negroism, and the progress of civilization has not been linked with cyclists and vegetarians. No one leaked any memo on interstate relations. However, many of our current diplomats have established international relations in many areas of politics and the economy. Personal changes in a large number of cases may harm the development of diplomatic relations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I will ask briefly: What will be the scale of staff changes in Polish diplomacy, in the Ministry, and what will be the cost? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs. Paluchova, just calm down. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs...]] [[The navel of the world.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u191	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Waszczykowski, asked by journalist Mr.Łukasz Maziewski about the future of Ambassador Przyłębski, wanted to threaten him with the sending of the ABW. Did the Minister make a formal request to ABW to take care of this journalist? Can we learn the content of this request and whether the Minister will also find it harassing to ask questions by Members? And can we also expect the Home Office to send a message to the MPs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The scandal could be called the fact that in preparation of the visit of President Lech Kaczyński on 10 April 2010 was attended by Tomasz Turowski, a well-known former intelligence officer of the Polish People's Republic and the Third Republic. He was then Head of the Political Department of the Polish Embassy in Moscow. He was at the crash site. He participated in a meeting of Russian and Polish investigators in Russia on 6 May 2010. I therefore have a question, Minister: Does the amendment of the Foreign Service Act imply firing all persons who were officers and co-workers of the former Special Forces of the Polish People's Republic, and whether persons, graduates of the well-known Russian school of MGIMO, will also be fired, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Moscow University, so-called. A frame forge that raises a lot of controversy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u195	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the concepts mentioned several times in various statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs concerning the functioning of Polish foreign policy is the concept of the Intermarine. This is a concept that refers to the interwar idea proposed by Józef Piłsudski. It is an important concept for building the position of Poland in Europe. Its aim in some simplification is ultimately to ensure close political cooperation between the Baltic and Black Sea countries. I would ask you to demonstrate which of the European Union's countries from the Intermarine coordinate their political action with Poland on their common policy towards the European Union, Russia or the United States. I also ask that the Minister respond to this problem in the context of Jack Saryusz-Wolski's candidacy as President of the European Council and potential support for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the countries of the Intermarine belonging to the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Objectives, tools and effects are things that should be characterized by every diplomat. He should know for what purpose, what is the policy of the Polish government, whether it is an introductory policy or a policy that brings Poland out of the European Union, whether it is a rational policy. He needs to know how the Polish government is going to get out of its knees. He must know the goals of the Polish government. He must also know the tools that the government uses, and he must know that these tools should be graduated: from consultation, negotiation, and when they are not, it is really the application of something that is an atomic bomb. But if this atomic bomb is used, it is counterproductive, because the effect that is achieved is a result of bringing Poland out of the European Union or leading Poland to be in the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Third speed. As with such a state of diplomacy, Poland can achieve results in matters really important for Poland, e.g. about the winter package? [[Applause]] [[Tom found it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u199	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u200	Thank you very much. Minister! I'd like to ask you about the HR exchange process at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the general sense, it is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the most human resources are a kind of remnant of the right past system. I would like to ask about the intensity and the pace of this process. I will remind you that such discrediting Polish foreign service events as the visa scandal at the Consulate of the Republic of Luck, in Lviv lasted for months without any appropriate reaction of the then foreign minister Radosław Sikorski. During the months there was a shameful act of coercion by the consulate staff in Lutsk of undue charges on interested persons. Moreover, Schengen visas to France, Denmark or Germany were granted, please, by states, to persons engaged in prostitution, subject to a ban on entry into these countries, and visa refusals from France were sealed with Polish stamps. This discrediting Polish diplomacy was animated, conducted by SB co-workers and other services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! When do these remains, these deposits from the previous system disappear from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u201	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There was much talk about personalities here, but I have a question about the effectiveness of people employed in Polish diplomacy. I'll use an example. Permanent representation in Strasbourg, with the ambassador as much as possible, should defend the interests of the Polish government. Last year there were a lot of discussions about the state of democracy in Poland and there was a situation that during this biggest storm, the discussion striking the Polish government and the Polish state the head of the Polish representative was first on leave, then on L4. The final balance was this: for 5 weeks, the delegation practically did not function despite many questions from the Council of Europe. And the second thing is, it's the management of the estate itself. It happens that the head of the diplomacy of the parliamentary team of the Council of Europe from the Polish Sejm must walk for an hour between [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Council of Europe and the hotel in the evening to get to the hotel, while the limousines are standing and waiting. Lack of wealth management is also a big problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u203	Thank you. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, you have talked a lot about these preparations of competence, substance, and looking from the side, if you want to take advantage of the need for Polish diplomatic services, it turns out that you are no different from your predecessors. Just like your predecessors, you treat Polish diplomacy: as a loot, not as a service to the state. Let me give you some examples, some cases. Have you ever tried calling the Polish representative in Ramallah? I've tried many times. I've never been able to do that. We have an embassy in Tel Aviv that resembles a closed fortress. Next to us we have the only positive exception, which is the embassy in Beirut, which serves not only Lebanon, but also the whole Syria. In the end, because I see that I don't have much time, I'm going to give you an example. During the parliamentary intervention, three members of our group went to London to meet with the Polish ambassador. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, we've been accepted on the stairs, where we've been waiting 15 minutes for someone to take an interest in us. This is what it looks like to serve the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was surprised to hear from the applicant today that there is a staff purge in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the social perception nothing like this happens, on the contrary, residents, Poles think that staff changes are too slow because they expect that... Young people, well-educated, with many languages who have all the skills and skills to work in diplomacy, cannot access it. And today the Minister said that he wanted to open wide the door for young diplomats, which I am very pleased about. I wanted to ask: When will the Ministry really open this door for young people, and how will this happen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u207	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the reign of the Platform and PSL, diplomacy was somewhat underestimated. It was believed that the world was stable, that alliances were secure, and that we were safe. Diplomacy seemed like an unnecessary expense. Diplomatic facilities were being shut down. As far as I'm concerned, Minister Sikorski himself has been shut down by 16. Turns out the world is unstable after all. The present brings many threats and nothing will replace direct diplomacy, competent, having numerous contacts, working in the service of the ambassador's homeland. Our government is opening diplomatic offices. I have a question for the Minister: How many diplomatic offices were closed during the Platform's and PSL governments, how long have we opened up and what are the plans for the nearest future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, very briefly speaking of consular services. In fact, we would not want this to continue to be limited only to Warsaw or Krakow, but only so that people from all over Poland can be in this service. And now the second thing about purifiers that are said to have been done or done. I wanted to ask the Minister in particular one thing: when will nepotism end in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it comes to workers in diplomatic and consular service? Unfortunately, we must return to the time of Bolesław Bierut, because his son was an ambassador for many years, and today his family still works in several institutions. Is it true that they are still working, [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially on the Apennine Peninsula? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't have to be a graduate of Moscow to run Moscow politics. You don't need to be a graduate of the Moscow school to blow up the European Union to weaken the Polish army and make generals leave it, and Miesiewicze is promoted. I would like to say that most, with the exception of two admirals of the Second Republic of Poland, were graduates of Russian Navy schools, including Adm. A black man who died in Katyn at the hands of the Bolsheviks. I would like to say that General Jaruzelski graduated not from Moscow school, but from Marian high school, just as the non-Moscow high school ended four bishops, traitors of the nation from the trade fair confederation, but as much as Polish as Catholic seminaries, which did not prevent them from taking part in the traitorous trade fair confederation blessed by the then pope. [[Applause]] Diplomacy should be a picture of the country. Foreign policy should be an image of the country. What you're doing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the country's caricature. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u213	Thank you. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Piotr Apel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u214	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate is absolutely justified, because we can often have serious doubts about who is really conducting the diplomatic policy of Poland, who is really taking responsibility for what is happening in Polish diplomacy. China's example: we have very positive signals sent by President Andrzej Duda, we have very good verbal signals about the willingness to cooperate in the construction of the silk trail, and in a moment there is a Minister of Defence, who - I do not know if after consulting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - blocks the possibility of good investment for Poland, blocks the possibility of trading many Polish companies, including. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be responsible for ensuring that Polish entrepreneurs have the best climate in neighbouring countries and countries where they want to invest. On this occasion, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is conducting any supervision or watching negotiations between the European Commission and the Mercosur Group. Is there another person who is following this important agreement for Poland between the countries of South America associated with the group and the European Commission? Is the Polish representative involved? Will it turn out again that, just as it happened in the case of the CETA agreement, Polish farmers will lose on it? Will it take care of the interests of Polish farmers, Polish entrepreneurs? This was not the case in the case supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the CETA agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Following the debate, I would like to ask you for further steps that we as Foreign Offices will have to take in the near future. Today we have largely recreated the reality that is around this ministry, i.e. the past, the old staff, the lack of diplomatic recognition. And now: Are we somehow prepared for a strong, substantive response to the summit that has now taken place in Versailles, which is the division of Europe into a two-speed Europe? Are we ready for a diplomatic response? Do we already have countries, governments, political unions around us to lead an international, European policy that will serve our interests? This is the first European question that is important today. Today we have the Council of the European Union, there will be important decisions on the future, but I think it will be more important to respond to this two-, three-polarity in Europe. And now the general question about coordinating our foreign policy. A good move is that we want to talk to China, a good move is that we have good relations with the United States and we are fighting the European Union for a strong position. Yeah, that's a good direction. But are all these directions coordinated? There is Russia, with which we have a terrible relationship, and we want to carry out a silk trail through Russia, so we should also take some diplomatic steps to make this project work at all. So there is a general question about the coordination of strategic orientations for the future. On the side it looks like we are responding a little bit to the various gestures, the choices that are, are happening today in Europe, in the world, and to a small extent we are creating foreign policy. I do not know if this was said today, I have not heard, but of course a big plus for politics towards Belarus. This is a good step in our Eastern policy, a good answer. I think this is where our facilities in Minsk worked well, and they're bragging about it. And the second pole, the second direction: Kiev. What is happening, Minister, in Kiev - our Minister - is something that, I think, Law and Justice in the future may not bring honor. So that I think we should be here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] make very big changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u217	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a lot of questions, so I'm going to try to answer them briefly, which I'm sorry about. If we do not have time to answer something, we will, of course, respond in writing. Mrs Gosievska asked about the scale of the exchange of former collaborators of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Everyone's gonna be replaced, that's what I'm gonna say. And I agree that Minister Fotyga was also under attack for trying to break a monopoly that was in the last 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, many questions have been asked about Ambassador Przyłębski. I would like to make it clear that the Institute of National Remembrance has announced that the query for Ambassador Przyłębski will be concluded by the end of the week and we will then be able to talk about his past. It just depends on how this query goes. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But why was she not there before her appointment?]] As for Mr. Trzaskowski's question, no one will force anyone to go to the facility. Of course, we will benefit from the experience of the staff of the former European Integration Committee's Office. As regards Mr Masłowski's remarks, there were also questions from other Members about the matter of Deputy Minister Grey, and we will address it in writing. As for Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz's question about Mr. Ambassador Przyłębski... Regarding Mr Gosiewiski's question, Mr Gosiewiski asked about Poles in Lithuania. Of course, we will answer in writing here, I just want to point out, because I do not want to take time to answer, but I want to point out that in addition to spelling names, the most important thing about taking care of our countrymen in Lithuania is education. This is job number one, and returning property, spelling names are important, but still number two, three - after education. As for Mr Nitras' question, how many people will we hire... [[You hired him.]] ...we've hired, and we'll answer in writing, sir, so that you can have details. As regards the question about Mr Rometsky, he asked, of course, consistently about the Home Office and Mr Tyrmand's employment at the Home Office - I understand that this is about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, only the Member has misread it. On the other hand, Mr Tyrmand has worked socially and there is currently no one employed to replace him, but, of course, if he wishes, we can also reply in writing. Regarding the question of Mr Owl as to whether any of the ministers or vice ministers currently working have a dual nationality or residency, we have responded in writing, but I can tell you clearly that no one has a dual nationality or resident status somewhere. Regarding questions about the scale of the exchange of former servants, security authorities, secret collaborators: so we simply want to give up more than a hundred of those accepted, widely used even by Minister Sikorski and his predecessors. In this place we want to hire young people, graduates of the Diplomat Academy, KSAP. This is the basic staff change we're proposing. I'm surprised someone's surprised to hear that. Regarding the criteria of Polish service, if someone was an employee of the Security Service in the times of the Polish People's Republic, in my opinion the answer to whether this man served Poland is obvious - he served the oppressive system in the Polish People's Republic, served the Soviet structure, he should not be a representative of diplomacy today. [[Then speak to Przyłębski, it's an ongoing matter.]] I have already said everything, sir, you are having difficulty understanding. As for any suggestions from Mr. Suchon, who spoke about troglodites, I am not commenting on that. On the other hand, if you want to propose for Prime Minister - I understand that in the future - Mr Petru, who, being so many years in public life, does not distinguish the Council of Europe from the European Commission and from the European Council, I understand that his knowledge of foreign policy is limited to trips to Madeira. [[Applause]] As regards the increase in the number of young people - Mrs Cicholska asked - this is absolutely our remedy. Why not bet 28 years after changing the system on 28-year-olds when it comes to these basic, serial positions? You can really thank the people of the old system. [[Applause]] As regards Mr Sylwester Khrushch's question about the elections in the United States and the example of the unprofessional action of Polish diplomacy, I completely agree with this analysis, Mr Khrushch. The election in the United States and the lack of expectation by the then ambassador, the former Polish ambassador in the United States, Mr. Donald Trump's chances as a result of the election, the lack of any contacts in Mr. Trump's camp, which was evidently an example. just on the lack of professionalism of the then Polish ambassador in the United States, today the main reviewer of our actions - it is also such a paradox - and the main opponent of change. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to - here again the questions of Mr... Thank you very much for Mrs Czochary's very interesting question. I recommend to you the 2014 NIK report on the state of employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the state of diplomatic service. It should be a mandatory reading, and I recommend it to the Members of the Civic Platform, what Polish diplomacy looked like during the time of the state of government. As regards the question of Mr Appeal about our position in Brussels, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke quite broadly about 2 hours ago, answering questions on current issues, so maybe I will not repeat so as not to take time to answer other questions. As regards the question of Mr Anczynski - Mr Anczynski asked about the liquidation of foreign offices - since 2008 11 consulates-general have been removed: the consulate-general in Karachi, Leipzig, Strasbourg, Rio de Janeiro, Lagos, Casablanca, Ho Chi Minh, Catania, Malmö, Lille and Sao Paulo. [[We're in Schengen.]] The idea of winding up the consulate in Rio de Janeiro or Sao Paulo is very interesting, but especially in Rio. The country which later, after the liquidation of our consulate, organized the Olympic Games, the World Youth Days, the World Football Championship - a great decision to eliminate the General Consulate in advance. I really congratulate the great visionaries on Mr. Sikorski's team. 13 embassies were also removed - Mongolia, Panama, Costa Rica, Senegal, Tanzania, Congo, Zimbabwe, Uruguay, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan. This is also a way of conducting diplomacy. Once again, with more than two increases in consular activities, there are fewer consuls at the moment, after eight years than it was in 2008, when we passed the Polish diplomacy to Mr Sikorski. It is good to remember that when our countrymen are waiting for the Pole's Cards, when our countrymen cannot reach the consulate, they wait a long time for a passport. Who's making it happen? Thanks to the PO-PSL coalition. It's undisputed, it comes from documents - black and white. As far as reconstruction facilities are concerned, in 2016, we re-created the facility in Senegal, in 2017 we re-created or re-created the facilities in Panama, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Tanzania, as well as the general consulates in Houston and Belfast. We're replaying. We're not shutting down. We're reconstructing our facilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u219	Excuse me, Minister. If I may have a request... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Yes? Would you mind delivering the rest of your written answers? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Of course. The rest of the answers, right? The rest of the answers will be delivered in writing to you, which I regret because I wanted to answer everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras. The Member just wants to clarify what he wants. [[Excuse me, the minister doesn't have time to say, and you let this gentleman in?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u220	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, this is an important issue, because I would like you to understand clearly. You misunderstood my question and I will have the wrong answer. I would like to ask how many TWs have been employed in diplomacy for your government. That's what I'm talking about. Second thing. Don't accuse Schneider of not predicting the election results because you canceled him in June, and the election was [[♪ The bell ♪]] November. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[But what mode is that in?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u221	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u222	No one's been hired. Of course, we will provide you with written answers. [[What about Przylebski?]] As far as I'm concerned, no one's been hired. As for the second thread, you know, not in June, but later in the summer, the former ambassador actually pulled over, but... [[And on November 8th, the election.]] [[Calm down.]] Of course, three months later there was an election, but I think that in professional diplomacy contacts are built for a long time, and you should know that. Of course, you... [[How was he supposed to predict the election in three days?]] Mr President, there are two candidates in the elections - such significant ones, because there are more candidates there - and a good diplomat should be prepared for every outcome of the elections and should have good contacts in both camps much earlier. He's an elementalist, and don't embarrass yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He was called, and there hasn't been a nomination yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In his statement, the applicant made two thesis. The first is that Polish diplomacy is in bad shape. The second point concerns the definition of current staff changes with personal cleansings. Normally, the term of office of ambassadors lasts four years. Poland has about 150 diplomatic missions in the world. This includes both embassies, consulates and delegations at international institutions such as the European Union, NATO or the UN. Thus, quantitative changes in diplomatic institutions are a natural process for the exchange of human resources. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: Were staff changes in Polish diplomatic offices in 2009 and 2015? What was the intensity and scale of these changes? Does the statement by the applicant of the poor condition of Polish diplomacy have any coverage in reality?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u225	I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 04 hours 13 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 Year of Care for Sobriety of the Nation (Prints No 1204, 1204-A and 1299). I would like to ask Anna Sobecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u226	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Marshal, I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the work on the parliamentary draft resolution on enhancing the concern for sobriety of the nation. During the work of the committee, Małgorzata Zwierzan presented the problem of alcoholism, which affects more and more people every year and helps to consolidate negative social attitudes. The Committee on Culture and Media after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 23 February this year. She did not object to the resolution and adopted the resolution. In Poland, alcohol abuse is a social scourge. Statistics say as much as 14%. adult Poles drink risky and harmful, and nearly a million are addicts. It is not surprising to see such a tragic situation when many treat alcohol as part of their daily lives. As a society, we consume more and more. Over the past 6 years, alcohol consumption per person has increased from 7.6 to 9.4 l per 100 percent alcohol, a threat to national existence. In public research, more than 70% The respondents pointed out that he most often drinks alcohol without any opportunity, and that alcohol is a dangerous, treacherous substance that addicts and can lead to diseases, to loss of life, and ultimately to death. Studies show that in the last 30 days, at least every fifth grade student in the third grade and every third grade in the second year of high school got drunk at least once. As a result, 11,000 people die from alcohol. Poles a year. According to available data, Poles drink more and more, especially young people. The value of indirect social costs related to alcohol abuse amounts to about PLN 40 billion. That's twice as much as the receipts to the excise and VAT budget. For the treatment of addiction itself, its complications, it seems to be about PLN 0.5 billion per year, which makes every Polish taxpayer spend about PLN 800 per person annually to cover losses resulting from excessive alcohol consumption. However, from various sources there is information about the widespread disregard by local authorities of the laws on sobriety education and the prevention of alcoholism. There are no effective mechanisms for punishing, which explains the impunity of those who, instead of caring for public health, care for the interests of a narrow group earning money on alcohol. According to public health experts' estimates, at least 2 million children live in families with a drama of addiction. Chronic tension and stress, in which daily they are forced to function, various traumatic violence experiences, including sexual ones, cause profound destructive changes in their psyche, guilt, fear and shame. The world in which they live does not satisfy their basic needs, does not teach them what love, respect, or tolerance is. Alcohol abuse is one of the key factors involved in this situation. Those children who are raised by sober parents will be sober and will have a better chance of real and more lasting happiness. Their self-esteem and self-awareness will be so high and well established that they will not duplicate negative patterns. In view of the enormous scale of the alcoholic problem in our homeland, the Committee on Culture and Media, convinced of the particular importance and role of sobriety in social life, it sets out a resolution to the High House on enhancing the concern for sobriety of the nation, as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on increasing the concern for sobriety of the Nation. The consumption of alcohol by Poles is constantly increasing. Research confirms that alcohol abuse causes huge economic losses in the state budget, many times exceeding ad hoc profits. The victims of alcohol abuse and alcoholic disease are not only sick people, but whole families in whom the youngest suffer the most. The rule is that a family member's alcoholism becomes the epicenter of his entire family life. Its members, focusing on helping an addict to counteract the negative effects of addiction, neglect other responsibilities, especially parental responsibility. Moreover, consumption among young women, including future mothers, is steadily increasing. Sobriety is a way of thinking that allows you to maintain and develop your freedom. Being sober means being free. Sobriety, freedom from alcohol is a good thing that serves the self-realization of every human being. In Poland's history, concern for sobriety was associated with the pursuit of freedom, the rebirth of the nation, as well as defending the dignity of Poles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls for increased care about sobriety of the Nation and calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland, local governments, churches, religious unions and NGOs to take systematic action in 2017 to care for sobriety of the Nation. A man can do anything today, but not everything serves his life. So much for a resolution. Thank you very much and I ask the High Sejm to adopt this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u227	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u228	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of governance is to care for people, to support them in their pursuit of full humanity, to create legislative mechanisms for the benefit of citizens. The authority, which is always treated as an authority, regardless of the power or political marketing arrangement, should not only set an example but also indicate good practices and support public life actors who show how a good life should look like. Sobriety is a state of consciousness appropriate to the world of external things. It's a natural mind that knows and co-creates the world of human relationships without the so-called. mind disruptors, that is, without psychoactive agents. For only a sober assessment of the world allows to create normal human bonds. The resolution is a kind of declaration, drawing citizens' attention to a problem that needs to be faced constantly in our country, in our families. Fighting for sobriety is not only a fight for the state of consciousness of individual people or finally the whole nation, it is a continuous and continuous war for well-maintained children, for loving families, for the health and safety of people. The militarization of the above statements is deliberate, for alcohol is addictive, and the rejection of it is an internal dispute, a constant duel with itself or with the people closest to it, and in the case of people caring for social life it is a struggle for the integrity of human will, constantly supporting it with various stimuli. The misfortune of alcohol abuse is well known. They cannot be compared with anything, and in particular with the impact of excise duties on the state budget relating to the sale of alcohol. Excise duties have little effect on the reduction in consumption of alcoholic beverages. The only real factor that reduces consumption is culture. Culture born in families and maintained and developed through religious and social life. The constant reminder of the importance of human sobriety, words and attitudes of great Polish authorities is extremely important regardless of political times and circumstances, regardless of the values or political party membership. Poles need special care for themselves and their homeland in this regard. Poland will be sober or not at all - the words of Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Bronisław Markiewicz, who has been so warned over 100 years ago, does not lose their meaning. Let them be the motto and justification of this resolution. The Law and Justice Club supports the resolution on increasing the concern for sobriety of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u229	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it possible to express concern by means of a resolution of the Parliament? Of course you can, just the question: why? If the High House has statutory tools to make real changes, they are simply unnecessary. The resolution of concern will not solve any problems. What you are proposing seems almost alive out of the world of Sławomir Mrożek's dramas, filled with fumes of tragic absurdity. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really want to make a parliamentary resolution about the sobriety of society? Do you really believe that an ordained concern will reduce alcohol consumption? We might as well assume that 2017 will be the year of concern for healthy sleep of Poles, after all, the sleeper is a sober man, or the year of care for dropping unnecessary pounds, we are finally fighting the plague of obesity. Since you believe that only concern will make this world more beautiful, perhaps more such resolutions, where we express concern, should be adopted in this House. The draft resolution states that sobriety is a way of thinking. Indeed, these words are difficult to deny. But it's hard not to ask if it's worth taking advantage of and propose legal solutions that are not limited to concern. Mrs Sobecka said that there is a lack of mechanisms to combat this phenomenon, a negative phenomenon that the local government is not raising in sobriety, but it is in the hands of this House that there are tools to create these mechanisms, so perhaps rather than merely a resolution on the expression of concern, we should be dealing with the creation of such mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen, if in the Polish Parliament it is necessary to adopt a resolution on expressing concern for the sobriety of the nation, this nation is simply insulted by this House. Let's not make drunks out of Poles. That's what I'm asking. Let's not do this. Finally, it's a proposal. In 2018 it will be 5 years since Sławomir Mrożek's death. He is a writer whom we should undoubtedly, especially in this House, read very carefully and clearly. And instead of caring, let's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We as the Kukiz Posel Club15 present a position which is radically different from that of my previous speaker. We believe that for so many years our nation has just been pushed into all these alcohol-related pathologies, it has been allowed to do so, and even the order of the previous system, there is evidence, there has been drunkenness, so that the nation forgets its freedom, so that it does not fight for this freedom, that we may be confused, that we may not be real. Therefore, every step that speaks of sobriety, such a step as concern, such as this resolution, such as talking about this problem, is very important. The amount of pathology that we see around us, often in our families, often in our communities, shows that this is a really big problem that we are largely solving in this room, but there is still a lot to be done. This is where I address Mrs. Anna Sobecka. Mrs. Anna, I keep my fingers crossed for all the people who are trying to get our nation out of this pathology, so that our nation is sober, that it is right, that in the end in our families, there is no such pathology in our society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u233	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the Polish People's Party provided his position in writing. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A free nation is a sober nation. This statement has been known for centuries, and the knowledge of it was used in practice by all who wanted to subdue others. Deploring society was a tool used consciously, demoting people to the role of free, subordinate puppets for which there were no higher values. Despite the formal change of the political system after the round table, no previous government was interested or had the time and opportunity to deal with the rebuilding of social awareness based on Christian, traditionally understood values, where family, national identity, honor and faith allowed to survive even the most difficult moments in history. Let me remind you that addiction is a disease that destroys family and social ties. It brings great losses because its effects affect not only the sick, not just their families, but all of them. The Catholic Church noticed this problem and joined actions for sobriety, establishing the Polish Episcopal Conference Team for. The Apostolate of Sobriety. This one in turn, in cooperation, among others. with the Parliamentary Group on The solution to the problems of addiction, which I have created and which we are conducting together with Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, has initiated the National Sobriety Congress, which consists of a series of activities aimed at reducing alcohol consumption and promoting sobriety and abstinence. It is extremely important and important that parliamentarians, regardless of political divisions and beliefs, be involved in all efforts to increase the concern for the sobriety of the nation. Among them are initiatives such as: Today's resolution, which I initiated. Its aim is to draw the attention of both government and parliamentarians, local governments and religious unions to the problem of addiction in our country and to the need not only to step up their efforts, but also to take more effective cooperation. The good of the nation should be our goal. We can achieve this together. On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, please adopt a resolution to increase the concern for the sobriety of the nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u235	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor. [[There are four questions you could have given a little more time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The 2017 initiative of caring for the sobriety of the nation is of the utmost support. There is no doubt that we should do our utmost to reduce alcohol abuse and the negative effects of alcohol abuse. Personally, in the spirit of this resolution, in the atmosphere of the fight against alcoholism, I would like to meet the expectations of many citizens and local governments, I personally experience this through intervention in the parliamentary office, in order to give local governments more than the current possibilities of a tool that would eliminate pathological phenomena. I am talking about more opportunities to withdraw licences for the sale of alcoholic beverages. Today it is very difficult, complex, most often ineffective. In addition, the possibility of setting up hours of alcohol sales or restrictions on the issue of licences should also be added as the power of the local government. My question. Is the Ministry of Health in this particular year [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Parliament, like a law restricting smoking, would not consider changes in this direction as well as other legislative changes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u237	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u238	Thank you, Marshal. I listen to this debate with sadness because I feel like I'm participating in an hour's prayer for sobriety, and we're not in church, we're in parliament and we're accounted for, not for intent, but for effectiveness. A year ago, in this room, exactly in February last year, you rejected the parliamentary project of the Platform, which gave local governments the opportunity to close night shops, reduce the activity of 24-hour shops, you promised to take your own initiative. A year goes by and you have not submitted, and after a year you offer us a year's prayer for the sobriety of Poles. Poles have the right to drink alcohol. You must not put all gallons of drunk alcohol in one bag. I also drink alcohol sometimes, and there's nothing wrong with the fact that a Pole is going to drink some alcohol. It is a question of drinking culture, it is a question of promoting a certain drinking culture, it is a question of restrictions on 24-hour shops, which are pathological. This is a matter of responsible policy of a country that you do not have. You want to pray that Poles do not drink, and we are the Seym, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which should teach Poles, promote cultural use of alcohol and limit pathological shops. You're not proposing anything about this. I'd like to ask Mrs. Sobecka how she voted on the bill last year...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u239	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u240	... giving local governments the opportunity to close down liquor stores.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u241	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u242	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. In the draft resolution, such a sentence is written: Moreover, consumption in a group of young women, including future mothers, is steadily increasing. I would like to ask the applicant, perhaps, to provide the source on which this statement was written, and also, as far as the wording is concerned, to increase systematically, I would ask that values be given in figures, broken down into periods. And also two sentences on the rejected bill. It was the Law and Justice that rejected the draft law which gave local governments the power to limit the points of sale of alcohol. You rejected him, and today you want to express your concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u243	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the Group of Members has decided to propose a resolution in order to establish 2017 year of concern for the sobriety of the nation. Alcoholism is indeed the cause of many tragedies of many families. If there's an alcoholic in the house, the whole family is sick. She needs treatment. We're watching younger children reach for alcohol. And, frankly, I'm surprised to hear that there are people in this room who are against this resolution. They say it would take action. Well, you've had so many chances, so many years, and somehow you haven't done anything about it. As for prayer, it seems to me that if the Member had prayed for the sobriety of the nation, nothing would have happened. It would be good for him and maybe for the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And for us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u245	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u246	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that this resolution was drawn up on the initiative of Members of the various political options, above all divisions. The year 2017 was declared by the Polish Episcopate a year of concern for the sobriety of the nation. As a longtime educator and director of educational institutions, I have met many times with the drama of many families, the drama of children and young people who grew up in dysfunctional families where alcohol was abused. I have a question: Will other measures be taken in addition to the resolution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a sociotherapist working with groups of adult children of alcoholics, but also conducting individual therapy of people addicted to alcohol, I am particularly pleased that this resolution is moving dynamically towards the adoption by the Sejm of 2017 of concern for the sobriety of the nation. Every reflection, every introduction in public discourse on sobriety is necessary. This does not change the form of things that it is worth asking three key questions: How much will this concern turn into concrete educational and profiling activities in Polish schools? I think this is one of the synergies with this resolution. How much will this concern turn into a series of media events, based on the acceptance by the Polish Television in the missionary promotion of life sober? One last question. How much will this concern take on a real dimension in the activities of state services and local authorities, expressing their formal consent to mass or local events, on which, rather than taking care of sobriety, different patterns are often promoted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u249	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know why the PO Member ridicules the motion for a resolution of the Sejm, mocks the concern for the sobriety of the nation. And by what means, if we are not concerned about this sobriety, can we take care of how we can improve this not best situation? [[Laws.]] It seems good that the Sejm wants to take care of the change of this very disadvantage of our nation. [[What about the rejected bill?]] And also to the Members of the PO: prayer is most desirable and certainly has not harmed anyone yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, in connection with comments about the powers of local governments, I will say that in Warsaw in many housing estates residents organized protests against the right to sell alcohol. The government was deaf to those voices. There was a protest, long enough, and a nearby school was simply closed down so that a small distance of it would not prevent the alcohol trade. Now let me draw your attention to the traffic issue. We have recently learned from the materials of the Supreme Audit Chamber, that from the so-called. cork only about 6% resources are used to help victims of alcohol-induced violence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to hear more explanations about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u253	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u254	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you, Madam President, whether it is true that alcohol is already being consumed by minors in primary school, middle school. Is it true that women who use alcohol during pregnancy have children with FAS syndrome? Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Mrs Zwierzan and I attended a conference about the sobriety of the nation. One of the anonymous alcoholics came up to me and said: Madam, do everything because I know what it means to be sober after 25 years of drinking alcohol, fight because this is what Poles need and this is what Poles expect from you. Therefore, I am glad that this resolution is one of the elements of the National Congress of Sobriety announced by the Polish Episcopate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u255	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Sobecka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u256	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I will allow myself to answer only some questions, for example. Mr King's statement of the position of the PO is so absurd that he does not deserve my answer. As for the activities of the Ministry of Health, unfortunately I cannot answer either, we will ask at the nearest opportunity. Mr Nitras asked me how I voted last year. Mr President, I have voted as a responsible Member concerned about the welfare of the nation. [[Is that for or against?]] With regard to the question of the creativity of all the initiators who act as part of the concern for the sobriety of the nation, this work is, of course, still open and all initiatives are extremely desirable. The formation of health-promoting attitudes, ladies and gentlemen, stems from the Act on Radiophony and Television. Art. 21 The Act on Radiophony and Television states that public television should respect the Christian system of values, should strengthen the family, should counteract social pathologies and should shape health-promoting attitudes, so that the media have such a duty, in particular public television, as is apparent from the existing law. Let me remind you that this is about art. 21 Radio and TV Act. Of course, Members of the House reminded us that 2017 is the year of sobriety of the nation established by the Polish Episcopate. Finally, I would like to remind all of you that this case was dealt with by the Sejm as early as 2006 and adopted a resolution on the establishment of a day without alcohol on 1 June for International Children's Day. This resolution, because it is very short, let me conclude by quoting: In view of the particular pronunciation of International Children's Day, the Polish Parliament calls on the Government and local government units to take all measures to reduce alcohol consumption and to reduce the availability of alcohol on 1 June. We call on entrepreneurs doing business in the area of the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages to refrain from selling and serving alcohol on that day. We call on all Poles to refrain from drinking alcoholic beverages on this day. The joy and happiness of our children is the most important idea we should always remember, especially on International Children's Day. So much for the resolution of 24 May 2006 on 1 June. Thank you for your attention, thank you for working on this resolution, thank you for all your comments. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u257	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Research confirms that alcohol abuse brings huge economic losses to the state budget, many times exceeding ad hoc profits. More important, however, the victims of alcohol abuse and alcohol sickness are not only sick people, but also whole families in which the youngest suffers - this is part of the proposed resolution. The purpose of the resolution is to highlight the problem of alcoholism as affecting not only one member of the family, but also the whole of it, paying attention to the effects of alcoholism - both direct and indirect. The authors of the project point out that consumption is steadily increasing among young women, including future mothers. In Poland's history, concern for sobriety was connected with the pursuit of freedom, the rebirth of the nation, as well as defending the dignity of Poles - it also obliges our generation. The PSL Club will support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u259	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 14.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 49 hours 14 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (Print No. 1296). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski to provide a justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u260	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code submitted by the Kukiz Club15 is a project designed to amend the article. 505 Civil Procedure Code by adding two paragraphs to it. The change seems to appear to be minor, but for proceedings in the electronic reproving procedure, this change will be significant. The electronic reminder procedure was introduced under the provisions of the amendment of 9 January 2009, with effect from 1 January 2010. In order to be in practice, this required the creation of an electronic system and a technical infrastructure which were developed under the implementing regulations issued only in December 2009. Electronic proceedings have been standardized in the Code of Civil Procedure as a separate procedure of an optional nature. According to the intention of the legislator set out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, a new type of judicial proceedings, in which the possibility of using modern ICT technology was created, was intended to contribute, among others. to improve judicial proceedings, reduce its costs and relieve the courts who recognise cases in traditional judicial proceedings. One court - Lublin-West District Court in Lublin, 6th Civil Division is competent for the recognition of all cases in the EPU at first instance. As in traditional reprimanding proceedings, only monetary claims and, as a rule, undisputed nature can be investigated also in the EPU. There should be no doubt that the far-reaching computerisation of procedural activities in electronic reprehensible proceedings is really translated into improving the efficiency of judicial proceedings and at the same time greatly simplifies and accelerates lawsuits. This is demonstrated by the considerable efficiency of e-court proceedings, in which almost 1.2 million cases were identified during the first 1.5 years of the law, about 1.4 million of filed actions. About 11.8 million applications were filed in e-court in 2010 and of which in 2015 - approx. 2.4 million. At that time about 10.3 million payment orders were issued, of which in 2015 - about 2 million. The computerisation of legal proceedings, its simplification and reduction of costs is also a tool for extending the guaranteed Article. 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland the right of access to the court. The EPU has opened a judicial path to thousands of reasons why ordinary redress would be inefficient, not only for financial reasons but also for time. It is estimated that around 30% of the more than 1 million cases that entered the e-court during the first 8 months of 2011, would never have reached the finals in court if the EPU had not been introduced. In an electronic reminder procedure, the plaintiff obtains a payment order after giving him the Feasibility Clause, on the basis of which the creditor can claim his rights by means of enforcement proceedings, after fulfilling a number of conditions required for this redress procedure. In accordance with the applicable law, opposition to an order for payment issued in an electronic reminder procedure results in the loss of all the power of the decision against all defendants, even if the opposition was brought only by one of several defendants or if the defendant raised an objection only on part of the order for payment. The Act does not provide for the possibility of objecting to part of the order. The exclusion of such a possibility seems doubtful in terms of electronic reproving, since it functions in traditional reproving proceedings. The order for payment issued as a result of the ordinary form of electronic proceedings is hereby repealed only in the part of the opposition under appeal. In view of the wording of the current regulation, the defendant is forced to question the whole decision even if, to some extent, he agrees with the merits of the action, and this solution is contrary to the principle of procedural economics. Current wording of the article. 505 of the Civil Procedure Code may also lead to a situation in which the claimant whose claim would be challenged only to a minor extent by the defendant will extend the way to obtain a final decision, which infringes the order for a civil case to be recognised by the court without undue delay. To object to a payment order which was issued in an electronic reminder procedure only by one of the defendants or to challenge only part of the decision shall always result in the execution of the order in its entirety and in respect of all defendants, i.e. Even those who didn't object. Content of the provision of the Article. 505 of the Civil Procedure Code is contrary to Article. 45 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which gives the opportunity to act alone before a court, which is one of the grounds and guarantees for a fair process of social justice in a democratic legal state. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 505 of the Civil Procedure Code also conflicts with the right to challenge decisions given at first instance - Article. 78 constitutions - which include: the right of discretion to challenge and review those decisions. This is because the legislator imposes the following solution on the defendant: acceptance of the content of the order in its entirety by all defendants and thus acceptance of the claimant's claim in its entirety or the need to challenge it in its entirety, even if part of the plaintiff's claim is uncontested and the defendants do not wish to pursue the process in this respect as a result of opposition to the order for payment. The concept of the whole order should refer in a clear way to the whole claim and to the cumulation in question, but in the existing version it is possible to take account of the cumulation of both the entity and the person concerned. The amendment introduced will ensure that the provision is compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and that it is possible to carry out a clear and consistent procedure contained in other parts of the act of interpretation. From now on, objecting to an order for payment in an electronic reminder procedure by one of the defendants will not automatically result in the execution of the order against all defendants. At the same time, the amendment will provide better protection for the claimant's claims, which, in the event of an effective opposition by only one of the defendants, will be able to obtain a declaration of enforceability and enforce his claim. I would now like to refer to the comments that have been made to the print project 1296. The Supreme Court welcomed the proposed amendment, and the proposal described as a necessary correction of the clumsy amendment of the Article. 505 Code of civil procedure. The Supreme Court also notes that the proposed text of the amendment is equivalent to the Article. 505 § 2 The Code of Civil Procedure and it is part of the principle of formal availability, as it allows for greater flexibility in the use of means of challenging judgments, and the provision in the current wording limits the independence of the parties to proceedings. We are extremely surprised at the position, the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council, which clearly evaluates the project in a negative way. The Supreme Bar Council indicates that Article. 505 The Civil Procedure Code in its current version is a reasonable compromise between the request for speed of judicial proceedings and the need to protect the defendant in connection with the applicant's unreliability. The Supreme Bar Council refers to media reports, which show that the plaintiffs intentionally give incorrect addresses to the defendants and the defendants learn that payment orders have been issued against them only at the stage of enforcement proceedings. However, at this point I would like to remind you that electronic reproving is not necessary for such actions, because such actions may also occur in ordinary reproving or in prescriptive proceedings. I would also like to remind you that the Code of Civil Procedure for each of the above mentioned. The proceedings shall specify the mechanisms which are designed to safeguard the interests of the defendant. Here I point to the content of the article. 502 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, Art. 492 Code of Civil Procedure or Art. 168 c.p.c. Please also note that the provision of the article. 505 of the Civil Procedure Code in the current version does not contain a guarantee leading to the protection of defendants, for which the plaintiff indicated incorrect address data. This guarantee shall be contained in Article. 505 § 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, referring to the ordinary reprimanding procedure and specifying the exact same mechanism. A payment order may not be issued if the defendant's whereabouts are unknown or if the payment order cannot be served in the country. In that case, the court shall ex officio waive the order for payment issued. Undoubtedly, the repeal of the order destroys all its legal effects. This arrangement, designed to protect the debtor, aligns the defendant's procedural situation in the proceedings in any case where there is an obstacle to the delivery of the order for payment in the country. The court shall, on receipt of confirmation that the order for payment cannot be served, waive it. Complementing formal deficiencies, e.g. by giving the defendant's current address, at the stage of the court's decision, it may not take place. In addition, please note that no one, including the Supreme Council of Attorneys, is questioning the solutions adopted on the basis of ordinary reprimanding proceedings. I would remind you that, until 1990, in the event of an objection against a payment order issued in the ordinary reprimand procedure, this order fell in its entirety. It was only the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code made in 1990 that the order for payment expired in the contested part of the opposition. The opposition of only one of the joint defendants for the same claim and of one or some of the claims taken into account results in the execution of the order only as regards them. This provision has been working successfully for 27 years and has not been revised since. Hypothesis concerning Article. 505 § The second sentence of the Civil Procedure Code covers two cases, and its content is, in fact, the following: the opposition of one of the joint defendants only to the same claim and the opposition to one or some of the claims taken into account results in the execution of the order only as regards them. In both cases, the opposition shall have identical effects, namely the loss of power of the order for payment only as regards them, i.e. the defendant who lodged the opposition, and his claim to which the opposition relates. Objection against the order for payment in the reprehensible proceedings is a restrictive appeal, which means that the case is returned to the initial stage as if the contested decision had not been given. The proceedings that have taken place since its submission are no longer a warning procedure. I point out that it is also wrong to charge the Supreme Bar Council as being added § 3 was intended to lead to inconsistencies in the legal system and to differences in the situation of those objecting to the warning procedure and those objecting to it in electronic reprimanding proceedings. As already indicated above, the hypothesis concerning Article. 505 § The second sentence of the Civil Procedure Code covers two cases, and its content is, in fact, the following: the opposition of one of the joint defendants only to the same claim and the opposition to one or some of the claims taken into account results in the execution of the order only as regards them. In both cases, the opposition has the same effect. The proposed regulation will thus lead to the harmonisation and alignment of the procedural situation of the defendants in the ordinary prosecution procedure with those who appear before the e-court as defendant. In addition, I remind you of the government bill amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims which, according to its authors, is intended to strengthen the rights and guarantees for creditors. I point out that the Kukiz15 project aims to strengthen the rights and guarantees for creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, doctrine and case law have long been calling for this amendment, which will certainly contribute to strengthening the efficiency of electronic reproving and equalizing the situation of the defendants who, after all, do not choose whether the plaintiff will bring an action against them in ordinary reproving proceedings or in electronic proceedings. For this reason, I ask for the support of the above-party parties for the further process of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The project mainly addresses two issues in the field of electronic reprimanding. This concerns the possibility of repealing the order for payment only in part in a situation where the order itself will be challenged in part or challenged by only one of the co-debtors. This is a solution that is modelled on solutions from other special proceedings in civil proceedings, for example in ordinary reprimand proceedings. However, it must be borne in mind who is most often a party to electronic reprimanding. Always on the cause side is a large entity, some entrepreneur, often a debt collection company, which on the basis of the assignment bought the receivables wholesale, and on the other side practically always the consumer. This is due, for example, to the fact that the lodging of actions in electronic reproving proceedings involves electronic access and authorisation. After all, the majority of citizens do not have the opportunity or the need to obtain such authorisation for themselves if they have a single case or have few cases. Therefore, if we take into account that the dispute always concerns an entrepreneur or a large trader versus the consumer, the amendments must be assessed in such a way that if one debtor claims only part of the order in question with opposition, it is difficult to consider that it is not in his interest that the other part becomes enforceable and that the order for payment in part is only repealed. If anyone says he doesn't owe $12,000. zł, but 10, it simultaneously accepts and accepts it, even if he is willing to pay it to make the 10,000. be able to pay as soon as possible. However, in the situation of the second amendment, which says that the action... Today's point of view is that only one debtor's action causes the order for payment to be revoked in its entirety, and the proposal is that it should only repeal the part concerning that debtor. Here you should have some doubts, because there is usually an informal or more formal bond between the joint-debtors, such as a marriage, such as a personal relationship, and it is often a joint commitment between two close individuals - a borrower, a co-borrower or a guarantor. In this situation, it is often the case that only one person appeals against the judgment or objects in the case of a reprimand, and this would result in a situation where the order for payment in the part concerning the person who has not complained of the order would be valid. For this reason, the Law and Justice Club will support the project in part one of the amendment, while the amendment will nevertheless be tabled to eliminate the latter amendment. At the same time, we suggest that the draft be sent to the committee for clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u263	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u264	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present comments or views on the draft amendment to the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 1296. The project has been updating electronic reprimanding, which has been operating in the Polish civil process since 1 January 2010. The purpose of the regulation, as indicated in the assumptions, was to improve efficiency, to improve civil, economic and labour proceedings and to introduce a modern IT system that allows for the efficient identification of actions and the quality of service of the parties in judicial proceedings. It has to be added that the drafted act, the drafted recipe has been modified in the meantime. This amendment has been in force since 8 September 2016. According to the project we are discussing, in the event of a proper objection, the order for payment shall expire in its entirety and the court shall refer the matter to the court by general jurisdiction. In such circumstances, as proposed, no supplementary fee shall be charged. In addition, in the framework of this amendment, the authors add solutions whereby, in the event of a proper objection by one of the defendants, the order for payment shall cease to be valid only in respect of the defendant who has effectively lodged an objection. In addition, the solution provides that if the opposition is lodged correctly only in respect of part of the decision, the order for payment shall cease to be valid only in respect of the part in respect of which the opposition has been effectively lodged. Attention should be paid to the relatively short duration of this regulation from 8 September 2016. This short period of time did not result in either the development of a certain, established judicial lineage, or, as it seems, deserving of recognition by statements that could be regarded as a well-established doctrine. However, with regard to the few statements, which should be included in particular the statements made by Professor Przemysław Telengi from the cathedral of civil proceedings led by Professor Andrzej Jakubecki, it seems that this project is a response to the demands of the doctrine demanding that the strictness of the rule in force be reduced by allowing the possibility of objecting to part of the order for payment and the possibility of limiting its effectiveness on some of the defendants effectively objecting. The representatives of the doctrine, especially Professor Telenga, claimed that there was a fear of contradiction with the current solution to the article. 45 of the Constitution to the extent that the need to object to all payment may lead to a delay in the settlement of the case without undue delay. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15 January 2015, which should also be used as an argument for further work on the proposed act, should also be mentioned as a condition for the proposed act. With regard to the position of the Civic Platform Members' Club, we are in favour of transferring the project to further Parliamentary work, with the continuation of the work on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u265	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. print project No 1296. Draft amending Article 505 The Code of Civil Procedure by adding two paragraphs to it is a change that has long been advocated by doctrine and case law. The draft amends the electronic reminder procedure to the extent that it concerns the consequences of objecting to the order for payment. Added § 2 and § 3 will cause that if one of the defendants objects correctly, the order for payment will cease to be valid only in relation to that of the defendants who effectively lodged the opposition. In turn, in the event of a proper opposition, only part of the settlement of the order for payment will cease to be valid only in respect of the part in respect of which the opposition has been effectively lodged. It should be noted that the proposed content of the Article. 505 § 2 and § 3 The Civil Procedure Code also contains its equivalent in the current Article. 505 § 2 Code of Civil Procedure. It allows both the exclusion of the effectiveness of the order for payment in respect of one of the co-defendants and the recognition of the opposition in respect of the part of the order under appeal. The current regulation is contrary to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland to the extent that the necessity to object to the entire order for payment may lead to a delay in the settlement of the case without undue delay. The current drafting of the regulation may lead to unfair decisions consisting, among others. to shake the order for payment by one of the co-defendants with effect for all of them, even against their will, and thus limit the independence of the parties to the proceedings and their right to the court. The right to challenge decisions given at first instance assumes inter alia. the right of discretion to challenge and review those decisions. The current regulation imposes the following solution on the defendant: either acceptance of the content of the order in full by all defendants and acceptance of the claimant's claim in full, or the need to challenge the order in full, even if part of the plaintiff's claim is uncontested between the parties and the defendants do not wish to proceed in this respect as a result of opposition to the order for payment. Such a solution is contrary to the Constitution and should be adapted as soon as possible to the standards that should apply in a democratic state of law. Therefore, following these expectations, which I mentioned, the demands of doctrine and case law, Kukiz15 supports the proposed project and calls on other clubs to support it and refer it to the committee for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u267	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u268	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the judicial procedure, in this case amendments to the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, are desirable provided that they serve to improve the law, with a view to speeding up proceedings. Changes in the harmonisation of rules for the creation of similar regulation in the same aspects of the procedure are good provided that there is indeed a harmonisation of rules. According to the rules in force so far, the order for payment may be challenged in part in the ordinary proceedings. With regard to electronic reprimanding proceedings, the provisions provide that the order for payment shall cease to apply in its entirety in the event of opposition. Thus, there seems to be a reasonable solution to be able to challenge the order for payment in part. Although this will not speed up court proceedings, the case will still have to be brought to court in respect of the part on which the defendant has objected, which means the conduct of proceedings, including evidence proceedings. This will not speed up judicial proceedings in the sense that the defendant is already in the first instance, and therefore, after the case has been brought forward, he presents claims and evidence in support of them, so he can also declare the part in which he disputes the request - Article. 210 c.p.c. In other words, if he brought an action in full, he could say that he did not question the claim for a certain amount or even accept the claim for a certain amount. On the other hand, this amendment may speed up enforcement proceedings as it will be possible to issue, in electronic proceedings, an implementing title in respect of that part of the order for payment, which the defendant simply did not contest in his opposition, which would mean that this part of the claim is in agreement with. However, with regard to the project we are talking about at the moment, some inconsistencies need to be pointed out. And now what? In accordance with the current Article. 505 c.p.c., i.e. the ordinary reprimand procedure, in the event of a proper objection, the order for payment shall cease to apply and the President shall determine the hearing and shall be responsible for the service of the ground of opposition, together with the summons to the hearing. On the other hand, § 2 says that the order for payment is no longer valid in the contested part of the opposition. The opposition of only one of the joint defendants, the joint defendants for the same claim, and of one or some of the claims taken into account, results in the execution of the order only in respect of them. On the other hand, according to the article. 505 c.p.c., in the event of a valid objection, the order for payment shall expire in its entirety. The same is true of this article from § 1 of the draft: in the event of a proper objection, the order for payment shall cease to be in force in its entirety. On the other hand, paragraph 3 provides for a partial loss of effect of the order, namely, if an objection is raised only in respect of part of the decision, the order for payment shall be terminated only in respect of the part in respect of which the opposition has been effectively lodged. This means that there is a contradiction in the proposed wording of these provisions. Since paragraph 1 states that, as a result of the opposition, without determining its scope, the order for payment shall cease to be effective in its entirety, since that paragraph provides for a general rule for the loss of full power of the order for payment, there cannot be any other solution - it cannot, since the broad clause is mentioned in paragraph 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 505 c.p.c. relating to the ordinary proceedings of the reprehensible, in its § 1 is referred to as a loss of power to object without indicating the extent of the loss of that power. Unprecise is also § 2 in a project the content of which may lead to contradiction and consequently to a lack of proper understanding with regard to Article. 73 § 2 c.p.c. concerning joint participation in the single market. Comments also concern § 3 because it is possible to object to the claim - the claim is contested and, therefore, we question all or part of the claim by objecting. Thus, in § 3, there should be a provision: as to the part of the claim and not the part of the decision. Thus, in this way, the project cannot stand. I therefore hope that during the work of the committee, the wording of the provision will be verified so that it will not only correspond to the letter of law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but he also referred to the rules provided for in the ordinary reproving procedure. If not, such a record as the one proposed in the project will not be correct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 1296. The draft envisages an amendment to the article. 505 Law Code of Civil Procedure relating to the consequences of opposition to an order for payment in electronic reprimand proceedings. According to the current wording of this provision, in the event of a proper objection, the order for payment shall be terminated in its entirety and the court shall refer the matter to the court in general. In that case, no supplementary fee shall be levied on the application. That is the wording of this provision. Applicants shall request the addition of this Article. 2 and § 3, in so far as the opposition is brought only by one of the defendants or where the defendant has brought an objection only on part of the order for payment, it will not result in a loss of effect of the entire decision against all the defendants. At that time, the order for payment will cease to be valid only in respect of the defendant who has effectively lodged an objection - § 2 - and only in respect of the part in respect of which the opposition was effectively lodged - § 3. In the justification of the applicant, they argue that the draft is not in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. They refer to the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15 January 2015, i.e. Act P 7/12. Although the Court of First Instance dismissed the proceedings in the present case because the judgment was inadmissible, the content of the article at that time had not been repealed. However, in his statement of reasons, he expressly pointed out the non-constitutionality of that provision in so far as the opposition against the order for payment lodged by one of the defendants results in the revocation of the order for payment in its entirety and in so far as it does not provide for the possibility of partial appeal against the order for payment, by reference to Article. 2, Article Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 78 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In addition, applicants refer to the fact that the possibility of objecting to a part of the order operates in a traditional, non-electronic form of reprimanding procedure in accordance with Article. 505 § 2 c.p.c. In their view, therefore, it is appropriate for the same solution to function in electronic reproving proceedings, since, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the current legal situation is forcing the defendant to question the whole decision even if, to some extent, it agrees with the merits of the action and this solution is contrary to the principle of procedural economics. The Free and Solidarnia Circle welcomes the proposals contained in the project, although in the current practice in the field of electronic reproving procedures I consider the threat to which the Supreme Bar Council draws attention in its opinion. We are talking about situations where, I quote, the plaintiff called the defendant's incorrect address, and the defendant found out that a payment order was issued against him only at the stage of the enforcement procedure, when the bailiff had already directed correspondence to the defendant's incorrect address. This problem is quite common in practice. It is therefore appropriate to consider how to resolve it on a legislative basis. Unlike the Supreme Bar Council - it is her position - but we believe that it can be resolved in a different way than by maintaining the current content of the article. 505 c.p.c., e.g. by amending the provisions to facilitate the repeal of the order for payment and the suspension of enforcement proceedings in cases where the plaintiff gives an incorrect address to the defendant and provisions concerning the obligation to notify the relevant entities of the change of residence. At the same time, it should be noted that the remark in the Supreme Court's opinion relating to the principles of legislative technique is very relevant, in order to be added in the article. 505 c.p.c. § 2 use the reimbursement of the defendants, as is the case in the case of an equivalent provision in traditional reprehensive proceedings. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle bring [[♪ The bell ♪]] to refer the draft law to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u271	Thank you, sir. One person signed up for the question. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo. Question time - 1 minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In accordance with the applicable law, opposition to an order for payment issued in an electronic reminder procedure results in the loss of all the power of the decision against all defendants even if the opposition was raised by only one of several defendants or if the defendant raised an objection only on part of the order for payment. The current solution ensures that the defence function of the defendants, for which the plaintiff has indicated incorrect address details, is carried out. The applicant's incorrect address has the effect that the defendant is only informed of the order for payment issued against him at the stage of the enforcement procedure. It's a big disease. If, therefore, the order for payment is effectively served to one of the defendants and the defendant lodges an objection against it, the order for payment will cease to be in force in its entirety and also in relation to [[♪ The bell ♪]] other defendants. On the other hand, the proposed amendment will undoubtedly provide better protection for the claimant's claims, which, in the event of effective opposition by only one of the defendants, will be able to obtain a declaration of enforceability and enforce his claim. It'll speed up the claim. In conclusion, the substance of the Article in force. 505 c.p.c., I believe, is a compromise between the request for speed of court proceedings and the need to protect the defendant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir. Will the Minister want to speak? You're welcome. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u274	Dear Marshal! High Seym! We see some advantages in this message. We do not doctrinally approach who is the applicant, but try to judge the projects honestly, in such a way that they work better to help improve the Polish state. We see some advantages in this project for the plaintiff and the defendant. However, the most important task will be if we decide to make such changes, whether, after these changes, this unified system will by chance not make electronic reminders, which have worked well so far, it must also be said, speed up a lot of court proceedings, in many of these cases it will significantly increase. Therefore, as a government, we support further work on this project and declare our full assistance in some ways to improve this act during committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u275	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? [[Yes, if you don't mind, quickly.]] You're welcome. Mr Tomasz Romankowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u276	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so short. Thank you very much for your willingness to proceed with the bill submitted. All the comments you have made, we will try to take into account, verify with reality. I will explain briefly the issue of service, because here there was one element concerning it. Ladies and gentlemen, these are completely different regulations. I, too, referred in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law to the relevant provisions which certain guarantees are provided for the parties to the process. With regard to business-to-consumer relations, please note that the same relationships also exist in the ordinary proceedings. Here we are dealing with an identical, similar situation. The main idea of introducing this amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure is to partially harmonise the two procedures and align the parties in both cases of procedure, whether in ordinary reprimanding proceedings or by electronic means. But once again, thank you very much, because this shows that the High House is also able to work in substance to make life easier for ordinary Poles, because this amendment will only improve. From this point of view, I also thank the Minister for his good word and his willingness to cooperate, because this will certainly contribute to better economic turnover in Poland and will serve both businesses and consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u277	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure. On 1 January 2010 new civil proceedings - electronic reproving procedure entered into force in the Polish legal system. This is an optional procedure because the case is pending only if the plaintiff decides to file an action by electronic means. This amendment was intended to relieve the courts of minor monetary claims brought in mass against different persons, but in identical factual situations. The 16th Civil Division was established in the District Court of Lublin, which examines actions brought electronically regardless of the value of the subject matter of the dispute, and its jurisdiction covers the whole of Poland. The case file shall be kept in electronic form and shall be made available to the parties. There's no evidence attached to the lawsuit. Online, the plaintiff pays the court fee. The plaintiff is suing for payment by filling in an electronic form. Today's project is updating the electronic reminder procedure to the extent that it concerns the consequences of the opposition to the order for payment. According to the draft, in the event of a proper objection, the order for payment shall cease to be in force in its entirety and the court shall refer the matter to the court by general jurisdiction. In that case, no supplementary fee shall be levied on the application. 505 § 1 of the project corresponding in substance to the provision in the applicable wording). The authors of the project add provisions § 2 and 3 providing that, in the event of a properly lodged objection by one of the defendants, the order for payment shall cease to be valid only in relation to that of the defendants who has effectively lodged an objection (§ 2). In the event of a proper objection, only part of the settlement of the order for payment shall cease to be valid only in respect of the part in respect of which the opposition has been effectively lodged. According to the Constitutional Court's order of 15 January 2015, Article 2 of the Constitutional Tribunal's Rules of Procedure. 505 §1 c.p.c. in the current wording is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal states that the non-constitutionality of Article 505 § 1 c.p.c. results from the fact that, pursuant to that provision, an objection against a payment order which was issued in an electronic reminder procedure only by one of the defendants or only part of the decision will always result in the execution of the order in its entirety and in respect of all the defendants, i.e. Even those who didn't object. Content of the provision referred to in Article. 505 c.p.c. According to the Constitutional Court, it is contrary to the Article. 45 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which gives the opportunity to act alone before a court, which is one of the grounds and guarantees for a fair process of social justice in a democratic legal state. At present, the legislator imposes on the defendant the following: acceptance of the content of the order in its entirety by all defendants and thus acceptance of the claimant's claim in its entirety or the need to challenge it in its entirety, even if part of the plaintiff's claim is uncontested and the defendants do not wish to proceed in this respect as a result of opposition to the order for payment. The current editing of the rule may lead to unfair settlements, including those of the law. to shake the order for payment by one of the co-defendants with effect for all of them, even against their will. It thus limits the independence of the parties to the proceedings and their right to court. High Izbo, this project is an attempt to correct the errors of the previous amendment, which deals with electronic reprimanding procedures. Undoubtedly, the rules currently in force in this area need to be improved because of their unconstitutionality. The proposed amendments will allow for greater flexibility in the use of remedies. They will adapt the provisions of electronic reprimanding procedures to traditional reprimanding procedures and, above all, restore participants to their rights, independent of co-defendants' actions. At the same time, the amendment will provide better protection for the claimant's claims, which, in the event of an effective opposition by only one of the defendants, will be able to obtain a declaration of enforceability and enforce his claim. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSL Members' Club is in favour of directing the project to further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u279	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in print No. 1296, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union (print No 1196). I ask Mrs Joanna Schmidt to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the main principles of the bill on the Poznań Metropolitan Union. The project assumes the possibility of creating a metropolitan union in the area of Wielkopolska Voivodship, which would include Poznań as a city on the rights of the county, as well as municipalities and districts which have strong functional links with the capital of Wielkopolska. According to the Act, the union is formed by a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers. According to Art. 6 the decision to join the union will be taken by individual municipalities' councils. The Municipal Councils will then address their proposal to the Minister responsible for public administration through the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. What is very important is one of the elements of the proposal, as provided for in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 will be the result of a public consultation based on the referendum formula. Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the proposed law indicates public tasks which may be carried out by a metropolitan union and which already go beyond the administrative boundaries of individual municipalities. These are tasks in the field of public collective transport in the area of the union, the shaping of spatial governance, the development of the area of association, cooperation in determining the course of national and voivodship roads in the area of the union, the promotion of the union and its area, as well as the role of a service centre common to local governments forming part of the metropolitan union and their units. In addition, lips. 3 of this article indicates that, on the basis of an agreement concluded with a government authority, a metropolitan union may carry out public tasks falling within the scope and operation of the government administration. Let me stress: maybe. Distribute. The 4th draft law describes the management of the metropolitan union. And so, according to art. The 18 bodies of the union are the assembly of the metropolitan union and the management of the metropolitan union. The assembly is a body constituting and controlling it, composed of delegates from the municipalities forming part of the union - one from each municipality and one from the county. Delegates are the mayors, mayors, city presidents, and the seniors or persons authorised. The Act introduces a double majority decision-making solution. The condition of obtaining a double majority is fulfilled if the majority of the statutory assembly is voted in favour of the resolution and the number of delegates representing the municipalities that the inhabitants of these municipalities are the majority of the population living in the area of the union, while the delegate of the city of Poznań weighs 40% Voices. The purpose of this provision is to safeguard the interests of all members of the union. As far as the union board is concerned, our intention is that the union board should not be political, hence the composition will be very... substantive. Art. 28 assumes that board membership cannot be combined with executive functions such as the mayor, the governor or the president of the city or the senator's mandate. We want the management not to focus on politics, but on specific tasks placed before the Poznań metropolis. In turn, the relationship according to our concept is to be an instrument for effective performance of tasks, not a political instrument. I would like to point out that the decision to set up the Poznań Metropolitan Union will allow the financial instrument referred to in the article to be used. 51b point 1 of the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units, which may amount to PLN 140 million per year in the case of the Poznań metropolitan area. This is undoubtedly a very specific incentive, which causes Poznań, Poznań County, Poznań County, Poznań County and other local government units after the creation of this legal opportunity will certainly decide to join the union. Another advantage of the law is the fact that its adoption does not result in the creation of the Poznań Metropolitan Union, but only in this possibility. The projecters pointed out that the autonomy of the municipalities surrounding Poznań, which has the status of a city on the rights of the county, was maintained. The project assumes that only municipalities that wish to join the union will become part of it. Ladies and gentlemen! By joining the draft law, we followed the logic of thinking, according to which, since there is no political will to implement the metropolitan law of a nationwide nature, we should draw up laws dedicated to specific areas - in this case it is about Poznań and its surrounding municipalities. In the nationwide law on metropolitan unions did not believe even the leading self-governments of the Civic Platform. I would like to remind you that President Paweł Adamowicz and President Jacek Karnowski prepared their own project for Gdańsk's metropolitan area, feeling that the parliamentary project proposed by the Platform has little chance of implementation. We have prepared a law similar to the Silesian law, which does not exceed the standards adopted in this law. In our project we have applied solutions that assume an important role of the voivode when registering a union. A registration application shall be submitted through it. In addition, the voivode appoints the person who will act as a proxy from the founder of the union - the Silesian project assumes that the function of the vending machine is carried out by President Katowice. The governor is also to finance the costs of the union registration process. I would stress that they will be small. I would like to point out that cooperation in the metropolitan area in Poznań has been going on for 10 years. It was Wielkopolska who initiated the first metropolitan activities. Already in 2007 a Council of Poznań agglomerations was established, bringing together voivodships, mayors and city presidents. It was to Poznań that various delegations came to look at our solutions. Therefore, denying Greater Poland the right to introduce a voluntary tool would be unfair and incompatible with the spirit of freedom and democracy. In 2011, the agglomeration council turned into the Metropolitan Association of Poznań, which today also serves as an intermediary, distributing funds under integrated territorial investment. When preparing the bill, we conducted a fair consultation and collected a number of comments that we want to consummate as part of the work of the Sejm committee. During the consultation we collected comments from local government officials from the city of Poznań, Poznań district, most of them are able to introduce in the form of a self-correction. We would be happy to take note of the comments of the majority of the government. At this stage, we are asking that the project be referred to committee. We consulted the city of Poznań, Poznań district and 22 municipalities surrounding the city of Poznań. I will only read what municipalities took part in the consultation - besides, of course, there were also consultation meetings with residents in Swarządz and Lubon and the authorities of these municipalities. Buk, Czerwonak, Dopiewo, Komorniki - these are municipalities that have not sent any comments. Poznań County - comments have been sent and we are open to being taken into account in committee work. Also the city of Poznań. Roketnica, Stęszew, Szamotuły - no comments. Kórnik, Swarzyz - no comments. Tick-tock - no comments. I will quote the most important two comments. The city of Poznań, for example, indicated that the metropolitan union law passed by the previous Sejm is still in force. However, I remind you that it has never been implemented and, let's face it, it will not be, because there is no such political will as has not been in the last eight years of the government of the PO. Even the PO presidents, I repeat, President Adamowicz of Gdańsk and President Karnowski of Sopot, did not believe in this bill and prepared theirs. That's why we proposed our project. Another point is that the President of Poznań should be the representative of the assembly responsible for the registration of the union, not the person appointed by the voivode, i.e. not the representative appointed by the voivode. Such a provision was also included in the draft law on the Gdansk Metropolis proposed by the presidents of the PO, also in the Silesian law. We thought these were good solutions for the voivode to point out the proxy, because it was the voivode as a representative of the government that has always been the agent in the legal system for the registration of the union. Since he is to fund it entirely from the grant of the union organisation, he should be able to appoint a representative in this case. Moreover, the registration of the union is a technical activity, it is merely the doing of the will of the entire assembly. I assume that these amendments, these comments, will be made during work in committee. Then it will be possible to discuss them. Ladies and gentlemen! Wielkopolska needs good, innovative solutions, and they include synergies that arise from cooperation between local governments and residents. Poznań and the surrounding municipalities currently count 1 million inhabitants, and this number is constantly increasing. On a national scale, it's an event. We also received comments on the size, the size of the metropolis. I will only mention examples of European metropolises of similar size, which have long functioned and achieved very good results. For example, Bologna's metropolis is 950,000. The population, the town itself - less than 400 thousand, the metropolitan area of Helsinki is in turn 1 million inhabitants, and Helsinki alone is 600,000. inhabitants, very long functioning and well rated by all the metropolis of the Hannover region - Hanover it is 500,000. The population and the metropolitan area are 1.1 million inhabitants, Rotterdam - more than 1 million inhabitants, and Rotterdam is 600,000. residents. I mentioned all these examples to show that they are very similar in terms of population to the Poznań metropolitan area. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the project of the Poznań metropolitan area involves maintaining full autonomy of the municipalities and voluntaryity in joining the union. The project is a tool you can use, but you don't need it. Let the local authorities and their residents decide on this, assessing the potential benefits and possible costs. Freedom of choice is an overriding and decisive issue in this case. I would like to take note of your statements, comments, questions and request that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u281	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Edward Sulphur, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present our position on the parliamentary bill brought by the Modern Club about the Poznań Metropolitan Union. When we discuss metropolises, we meet with different concepts relating to the metropolis. In general, however, the metropolis is, according to the adopted definition, a multifunctional centre of a given region, in which the functions of higher order are concentrated, i.e. transport, scientific or cultural functions. Thus, the metropolitan area is a coherent functionally large-city arrangement of many settlement units and areas with a high degree of urbanisation. Under Polish legislation, the concept of metropolis appeared in the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development and in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 239 of 13 December 2011 on the adoption of the 2030 spatial development concept. According to the assumptions set out in this document, metropolitan criteria would meet about 8 and 10 urban centres in Poland. However, the Genesis of this document was different from the present proposal to create metropolitan unions. On the other hand, the European Research Programme for Spatial Development of Europe ESPON only identifies Warsaw and possibly Silesia as potential European metropolises according to its criteria. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of metropolitan areas was attempted by the Civic Platform and PSL Government Act of 9 October 2015 on metropolitan unions. The idea of establishing a Silesian metropolitan union appeared in the debate on this document just before the parliamentary elections in autumn 2015. It was for the need of this potential metropolis that the law on metropolitan relationships was adopted, understood as an association of all local government units located in the Silesian area. At this point I would like to point out that the present bill submitted by the club assumes the repeal of the metropolitan union law of October 2015. Modern proposes the introduction of a metropolitan law dedicated to Poznań and its surroundings. The Law and Justice Club is filing a motion for the Marshal to reject this bill at first reading. The solutions proposed in the draft law duplicate the irrational solutions already adopted in the 2015 metropolitan union law. As of today, there are no reasonable grounds for adopting the bill submitted. In any event, the drafters of the law have not presented any arguments in support of the establishment of the Poznań metropolis. The only reason for the creation of this metropolitan area would be to obtain PLN 140 million from the state budget on the basis of Article. 51a Act on the income of local government units by these local authorities. I would like to point out that, on the basis of both the applicable law on local government units and the law on the income of local government units - local governments, which voluntarily join larger entities, can obtain such funds. As of today, Poznań and its surroundings do not meet such conditions, it is an area inhabited by only 600 thousand. persons. There are several differences in the proposed provisions of the Modern Law in relation to the metropolitan union law of 2015, which still applies today. One of these differences is the proposal of the Modern, that as a proxy for the creation of a metropolitan union, one of the local authorities should be designated to create a potential relationship. In the current law, such a person is entitled to coordinate the work related to the creation of the metropolis, and is an employee under the voivodeship. When we analyze the scope of the metropolitan union's operation, in the Modern project, the catalogue of tasks enshrined in the metropolitan union law was supplemented by the possibility for the metropolitan union to perform the role of a service centre common to local governments. At present, local government is fashionable to create such solutions, but they have one common flaw - they are moving more and more away from citizens in solving people's problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I said, the Law and Justice Club is applying for the rejection of the project at first reading, bearing in mind the government's announcement of a comprehensive review of the country's spatial policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to express my opinion on the draft metropolitan law concerning Poznań and neighbouring local governments, submitted by the Modern Club. A few critical words on this issue - about the Poznań Metropolitan Union - I must speak at the very beginning. Firstly, it is wrong that such a specific, single project appears in a situation in which the law laid down by the Act of the previous year, dated October 2015 - the previous one, which has already passed. This is because it must be made clear that the law in force today - despite the absence of implementing acts due to the current rulers, which is also a breach of certain legislative and legal principles by the current government - is the Act of October 2015 adopted by the Government, proposed in Parliament at the time of the Platform and PSL government. That's one thing. Therefore, it should be considered that such a separate project is premature in relation to the suspension situation, the transitional legal situation as regards the law on the creation of metropolitan relationships, which is in fact in force. Secondly, this draft law was created, contrary to the applicant's assurances, without appropriate and appropriate public consultation. I would just like to draw attention to this, looking at the factography, that after the withdrawal of this project at the beginning of February from the agenda of the High Chamber, on 13 February, letters were sent by representatives of the Modern Party to Poznań County and other local governments asking for the first comments concerning the draft law, and the bill was filed much earlier, because already in October Ub. was presented at a press conference in Poznań. So, in fact, it was conducted without proper consultation, which unfortunately brings applicants closer to the thinking of the Law and Justice in these matters, which, to put it mildly, concerns me. The question of decisions arbitraryly enshrined in this law, in such a way as that 40% The votes in this metropolitan union are held by the city and the municipality of Poznań, without establishing this with all local authorities, is one example of political action, hastily, without proper agreement, without discussing this with the Association of Metropolitan Poznań, which has been operating for many years, as well as with individual local authorities, except for the individual case of Swarzędza and Lubonia. It is also a matter of some other problem, namely that in a slightly, I would say, ill-considered club The modern one reported this project during the frontal attack of Law and Justice against Warsaw by means of a law that clearly shows what the current authority wants to use ideas about metropolitan unions, namely to replace its kind of voluntary association, because this voluntaryity is enshrined in the law that Mrs Joanna Schmidt has reported, voluntary creation of metropolitan unions from the top in fact the creation of metropolitan units. So PiS dreams of creating top-down metropolitan units instead of metropolitan unions and finally, as I understand it, the government with the party voivode determines who will manage this union. It is also a question of the fact that there are no clear additional objectives for the creation of this metropolitan union, because all the objectives set out in the Act are implemented today by the Association of Metropolitan Poznań, thus also by the metropolitan railway, and a common ticket, and joint investments, of course also carried out within the framework of the so-called investments. ZIT. So a prematurely complex project, which unfortunately abolishes the Civic Platform Act on metropolitan relationships, gives, in fact, a field for the exercise of Law and Justice, which is in this sense thoughtless, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, by abolishing our law, the creation of the remaining six possible metropolitan relationships, because in this field only the Poznań metropolitan zone would remain, but I as a cognizant do not fully correspond. However, I would prefer there to be a universal law to keep it alive, to remain valid, and then metropolitan unions would form on the basis of the 2015 Act in a uniform and appropriate manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the assumptions of the Parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union. The presented project assumes the creation of the Poznań Metropolitan Union in the area of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, which would form an association of municipalities and powiats located in the said voivodship. It also assumes that local government units will have autonomy in deciding to join the established union. The metropolitan union law requires a minimum population of 500,000, with the exception of Silesia - there is this level of 2 million, the project refers to 600 000. According to the project's assumptions, 5% the income tax collected on the territory of the union is to remain in its budget, i.e. according to the estimates of the projectors it will be about PLN 140 million, which may be allocated to the development of the municipalities which have decided to create this union. In addition, the project contains detailed regulations concerning the formation of the union, the choice of its authorities, the property of the union and the finances. The solutions proposed in the project are in principle in line with the provisions of the metropolitan union law. According to this proposal, the union body will be created by representatives of the municipalities: in the body constituting, or assembly, one representative of the executive body of each unit, a board composed of five persons elected by the assembly, which cannot simultaneously be members of the body of the individual, i.e. the mayor, the mayor, the president, etc. However, this project does not fully regulate the requirements which should be met by those in charge of this position, either with regard to specific qualifications or experience. As intended, the creation of a union is intended to improve the performance of tasks, e.g. in the field of public transport, promotion, coordination of processes related to spatial planning, development and acquisition of investors, so as we understand more or less the tasks of metropolitan unions. It provides that the assembly's resolutions are to be adopted by a double majority. The majority shall be obtained if, in favour of the resolution, the majority of the statutory composition of the assembly and the number of delegates representing the municipalities that the inhabitants of these municipalities are the majority of the population resident in the area of the union, with the delegate of the city of Poznań to be 40%. Voices. This is a certain doubt whether this should be regulated and appropriate in such a way, but this is a matter for discussion. The Union shall be created theoretically by the Council of Ministers by means of a regulation at the request of the competent Minister for Public Administration or at the request of the Municipality Council. It should be pointed out here that, in principle, there is already a metropolitan law, which was notified in 2015, but in practice it is not possible to establish this metropolitan union because of the fact that no implementing acts were issued for this law, as I said in 2015. That is why we believe that this must be resolved in some way, because waiting for these implementing acts can be waiting for actually centuries-old, because if there is no will to publish these acts, this law will not work. In addition, it is worth mentioning that a similar project is located in the Seym. It is a draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship, which will in principle be passed any day - from what we heard yesterday, probably still at this meeting of the Sejm. Let us remember that there was also an attempt by the party to make an application by the party governing such a metropolitan relationship with respect to m.st. Warsaw, so notabene in that formula quite curiosal, also without consulting any local authorities. The processed project basically repeats a large part of the solutions of the metropolitan union law, while transferring tasks to a higher administrative level. And here we have some doubts, because it's not like there's an increase in the role of democratic choice. The influence of citizens on the choice of union authorities is only indirect. They may continue to choose the mayors, mayors, councillors, but only from among them, according to the proposed rules, will delegations be elected to the union authorities. In the proposed version, the choice of the board of directors of the union is in principle no longer affected, although solutions could be proposed which would lead to a direct selection of such a union, for example by linking it to different types of local elections. Thus, the proposed solutions do not give us a guarantee of participation and civil control in the activities of the Union. Several other debatable elements of this project could be mentioned here, but it seems that the further blocking of metropolitan formation due to legislative shortcomings, precisely these shortcomings in the implementation of implementing acts, is very, very negative. These arrangements for the creation of unions should enter into force, as these relationships are created in a reasonable manner and operate on a principled basis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Economic viability offers a chance to promote the development of different types of municipalities. In conclusion, despite the reservations, Kukiz15 supports the referral of the project to further legislative work, during which we will be able to clarify the details, possibly to eliminate these shortcomings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u287	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My colleague, Joanna Schmidt, spoke in detail about the principles of the bill. In my speech, I wanted to focus on the main tasks of the Poznań Metropolitan Union. I'm getting some symptoms here... Maybe schizophrenia is too much to say, but on the one hand, the representative of the PiS Club speaks of our idea as incompatible, when the draft law on the Silesian Union is actually identical, very similar, and on the other hand the representative of the Civic Platform may rightly be offended, because we have used certain patterns of the Civic Platform. But why not use good patterns? Therefore, I do not know why this idea criticizes. So when Modern comes along, it's PO, the PiS are starting to attack. There is no doubt that the solutions proposed by us will promote the development of public transport. The creation of a single entity in the Poznań metropolitan area, which will be responsible for this task, will increase efficiency in management, facilitate the introduction of a single communication ticket, will better adapt it to the needs of residents. This will bring us closer to the goal from which integration processes began, i.e. one public transport for all. The creation of a union would undoubtedly facilitate the further expansion of the metropolitan railway and its integration into municipal public transport. The union, being the manager of municipal public transport in the metropolitan area, would be a key partner for the development of the Poznań Metropolitan Railway. The role of the union will be to cooperate in determining the course of national and voivodship roads in the area of the union. The creation of a relationship would also allow for even greater integration of spatial policy throughout the metropolitan area. The main objective of the common spatial policy would be to reduce the phenomenon of chaotic spreading of low intensity buildings. It causes irrational increase in the cost of spatial development through inter alia. excessive extension of technical infrastructure networks and access roads. Another very important task, which could be carried out by the Poznań Metropolitan Union, is the external promotion of the Poznań Metropolis and the acquisition of investors. It is undoubtedly more appropriate to promote a million-dollar metropolitan area with many investment areas than the offers of individual municipalities. We believe, however, that our proposal will go to the deliberations of the relevant Parliamentary Committee so that we can talk more about the proposals of our club. Let's give this project a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u289	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made his statement in writing. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union. In the current state of law, there is no possibility of creating a metropolitan union covering the Poznań metropolitan area. Projectors considered that Poznan and neighbouring municipalities needed this connection. Although accession to the Poznań Metropolitan Union will be voluntary, the creation of the union itself is conditional on a minimum population of 600 000. Despite the voluntary nature of joining the union, it should be noted that there may be pressure on the uninterested if there is insufficient number of municipalities that will want to create a metropolitan area. The projector hopes that the creation of a relationship will enable the implementation of tasks, among others. It is about public transport or the acquisition of investors in situations beyond the administrative boundaries of municipalities. The association will also allow individual municipalities to set up a common service centre, which will increase the competence of teams while reducing costs. Positive for local governments the consequences of the formation of the metropolitan area due to the accession of the city of Poznań, the municipalities of Poznań County and the district itself are the acquisition of PLN 140 million from the state budget. Consideration should be given to whether the deterioration of the state budget and the resulting adverse effects will be offset by the benefits of the local government. In its opinion on the draft law, errors were noted in its records, which should be corrected during further work on the bill. Moreover, in my opinion, there was a lack of a comprehensive voice of those interested - the communes of Poznań. The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the law be further examined pending a broader context of its legitimacy and objective financial implications for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u291	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed law shows that the influence of citizens on the choice of union authorities is indirect or none. The tasks are shifted to a higher level. Unfortunately, this transfer is not followed by the spirit of local democracy. Why can the elections for the union assembly not be combined with the elections for the communal council and the elections for the communes? Why are there no guarantees of participation and of civil control in relation to the union's activities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! The ruling party does not create us particularly many opportunities to have a good conversation about local government and its development, so of course we must put forward very good and thoughtful projects as opposition. Your project is likely not to break the record of the PSL parliamentary project on the Soviet Councils and the Councils, which lived all three hours from the moment of the first reading to the rejection. Your project is supposed to last six hours. And now, what's important here. We need to look for added value in the submitted projects primarily because we need to go beyond Chapter 7 of the Municipal Government Act to look for opportunities that are not in the law. Unfortunately, your project does not create this possibility, and when it comes to handing out gifts, every relationship, every area around a large voivodship city would really like to get big money, but not this way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we're going to create solutions, they should be for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u295	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u296	Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, today you can create a relationship without a special law that could perform at least some of the metropolitan functions, but of course it would require goodwill. [[Exactly.]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] As you know, in the past several years there has been no such will on the part of local government units in the area of the Poznań agglomeration. So the simple question is: What is the point in the proposed law of making the creation of a relationship dependent on the will of the authorities of the local government, since we know from experience that it will not be? Is there any incentive here to obtain additional resources, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the proposed law? I doubt it myself. The bill has a number of flaws, but I'm just gonna ask you one more question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Namely about the sense of creating a metropolitan unit in fact to perform only two tasks: organising spatial governance and communication order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jan Grabc, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Act is very interesting, modelled on the law drawn up by Members of the Civic Platform, adopted in October 2015, but where it deviates from the provisions of the Act drawn up by the Platform, unfortunately defective. I'm just gonna talk about one article, Art. 52, which contains as many as two serious defects. First of all, it prevents the formation of metropolitan relationships anywhere else outside Wielkopolska, which seems absurd. Why can citizens of Cracow, Szczecin, Gdańsk or Warsaw not create metropolitan unions? What was the purpose of the Members of the Modern Economy by submitting such a discriminatory project to the residents of the remaining agglomerations? The second flaw, even more important, is the issue of financing. In this article. 52 You are receiving funding from the Poznań Union, because the income law of the JST providing for a 5% bonus for metropolitan unions was introduced by this law. Since you're repealing the metropolitan union law, you're also repealing the union funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poznan. This could, of course, be improved in committee, but this is a serious mistake that makes you not give a penny for metropolitan tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u299	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this paradox, namely giving and taking, is evident. If the project is good, why spoil it? If you wanted to create a relationship on the basis of the law today - and I thank Mr Grabc, because we worked together in the Ministry in 2015 on the adoption of a universal law for the needs of the whole country, and Mr Dziuba, because he appreciated its completeness - there is only a lack of good will, in short, no government regulations to create a metropolitan relationship with unlimited funding, as with the income union, as Mr Grabiec said, over a period of 5 years, only a permanent source of funding in the form of 5%. PIT. You're typing the 5%. Except today you're already losing that money because you don't have a relationship, you don't have an application. Don't create an artificial bill. I'm not against it, I'm not in favour of throwing it in the trash, because maybe it's better to work on a project like this, because the metropolis should be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] organize, bind and function, but do not do anything worse, inconsistent when a good bill is on the table. Today, create a union already based on local governments, and Mr Błaszczak, please encourage why he does not issue a regulation for specific funding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u302	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the first question for the authors of the project. Has this project been consulted with any local government? Do you have any opinions? Do you know that these local governments want to benefit from this project? If you have not been consulted, you are taking the dangerous path proposed by the Law and Justice for M.S. Warsaw. If we say that self-government is the basis for appealing to the inhabitants, then let's appeal to these residents, let's ask them. If I am speaking, thank you very much, Mr Dziuba, for what he has said, but I have a warm request. Mr Sasin, please go to Mr Sasin and tell him what you said, because maybe then the Law and Justice will withdraw from the idiotic ideas about m.s. Warsaw. This is an excellent criticism of what you, Mr Sasin and President Kaczyński, have also spoken on this issue, you are proposing. Mr President, more courage at the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] [[All ahead full!]] Please say it courageously when all the Members of the Law and Justice will be able to hear it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u303	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Dziuba. [[Me?]] [[Yes, Mr. Member, Mr. Member.]] [[Everything's clear. You don't have to straighten anything out.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u304	Thank you, Marshal. It's just not clear, maybe I've hidden my intention too deeply. My intention, the intention of my criticism, was that large units of local self-government, metropolises, should be made a sovereign decision, which does not mean not to consult and not to develop a field of goodwill. On the other hand, if we rely solely on the principle of good will to organize such units of local government, they will never arise in Poland. [[There were no applause anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Tonight, the Metropolitan Act will cease to exist, gentlemen of the Platform. [[I'm afraid so.]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Because there will be a law on the Silesian Metropolis, and we already know for today that there will be laws dedicated. [[For everyone else, sir.]] The law for Wielkopolska is already a pattern and an attempt to dedicate it to a particular region. And here is my question to the Minister and to all political forces: Will it be my will to start working on dedicated laws from the next few days? We are talking about about about about 8 such potential laws. Will it be our will to sit down and lean over every metropolis of the Wielkopolska type? Then there'll be a Tricity and so on. And isn't it just betting who once did what he said and was right, or was he right? In short, are we ready for a political consensus, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to act wisely in this direction together? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u307	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While in previous terms it was very difficult to make any progress on the creation of metropolitan unions or metropolitan areas, i.e. some common management in the area of many municipalities, many powiats, but one transport agglomeration, one spatial agglomeration, we now have some excavation of metropolitan laws. Unfortunately, they assume the deletion of the framework law, which, however, was adopted during the previous term of office. That's too bad. However, I think that they could somehow move forward if they were indeed laws which, firstly, are adopted with the consent of all municipalities, at least the consent of all municipalities, the consent of the districts, obtained by consensus, taking into account also the making of financial calculations and the determination of how the tasks that will be carried out in such a metropolis will be financed. Therefore, I have a question for the authors, namely, have you considered financing the Poznań metropolis, how they will flow, so to speak, financial resources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Except that you're hoping to get more money from the national pool. Were these simulations done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u309	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mr Sebastian Chwałek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government has not yet prepared a position for this project, work is currently underway on its preparation, perhaps at the next Council of Ministers meeting, but I can possibly present the comments that the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration wishes to include in the position for this project. Firstly, the bill on the Poznań Metropolitan Union is largely based on the solutions submitted in the government draft law on the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, thus not entirely reflecting its specific characteristics. The solutions that were prepared for Silesia were adapted to the specifics of this area, to the polycentric character of this metropolis and to the specifics of the area in terms of common tasks already performed at the moment. In Silesia, Upper Silesia there are at the moment at least four entities that deal with joint transport, collective transport in this area. Unfortunately, in Poznań, in Poznań and its surroundings, there is no such solution so far, so these proposals of writing do not exactly reflect the situation. The main task of the Poznań Metropolitan Union is to be public transport, but the functional area around Poznań is different from the Silesian conurbation. It's a monocentric potential area, so it's not here. so many large cities on the rights of the county especially, because there we are actually dealing with a rather complicated situation in terms of the possibility of organising common transport and movement of residents between these areas. Unfortunately, in Poznań and its surroundings we are dealing, as I said, with only one inter-city relationship involving the city of Poznań. This association deals only with waste management in the area of the agglomeration, for example. not transport. So it's clear that so far the local governments have not intended to take this cooperation at all... [[They're cooperating, there's an association.]] ...they didn't want to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the regulations at the moment. Moreover, it does not participate in any other relationship which would have the task of taking over at least part of the collective transport tasks. The analysis of this project, its justifications indicate that the project does not fully meet the expectations and needs of local authorities, which already fell out of the mouth of club representatives today during club speeches. And that's what we should agree on. I don't think local governments are fully prepared to start this kind of cooperation. Silesian conurbation is one of the most developed metropolitan areas, and there is also a strong willingness to cooperate with local governments there. We had the opportunity to observe it yesterday, indeed, the city presidents have already actually agreed on what shape the metropolis is supposed to be, and in fact they are only waiting for the conclusion of the legislative work. The situation is slightly different in Poznan. Solutions for further smaller functional areas around cities should take into account the experience of implementation and validity of, at least, this already expected Silesian law, which I hope will be passed this week. These observations will be able to emerge in the implementation of further solutions which would be the basis for cooperation in smaller units. This parliamentary project is at least premature. In summary, the Parliamentary bill on the Poznań Metropolitan Union should be assessed negatively at this stage. The lack of this cooperation, not quite appropriate solutions that do not correspond to the specifics of the area, and yet not quite the visible willingness of the local authorities to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u311	Thank you very much. I would ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go back to the questions I just heard. Let me start with Mr Kukiz's question15. In October the Act on the Poznań Metropolitan Union was presented, that was 4 months before the PiS attack in Warsaw, 4 months before the Silesian Act. In October, this bill was made public. Modern Members organized a conference at which the provisions of the Act were presented, assumptions. We provided the address of the website, asking for feedback, and we received such comments. I stress all the time that we are open to some of these comments. "Gazeta Wyborcza" wrote about our law, "Głos Wielkopolski" - these are the main media in Poznań. Here's another thing. There was a question about the consultation whether the consultations were also conducted with residents. Yeah, they were. Mr Grupiński recalled the fact that we started this consultation on 13 February. The consultations were held between October and December with the inhabitants of Swarzędz, in Lubon. [[It's not with local governments. You sent correspondence to local governments, there were no meetings.]] Local governments - between October and December, and the law, as I said earlier, were made public in October and from October we received our first comments. Also from the Civic Platform - I am sorry, I do not remember now which of you - points out that there is no need to introduce or proceed this law because the current legal situation indicates that the Civic Platform Act of 2015 is in force. Perhaps today the Silesian Act will be passed. This is why we think it is even more appropriate to introduce a law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union dedicated to Poznań and its municipalities. I was reporting which municipalities sent us comments that sent us information that they didn't have any comments. These notes are written down. As far as some comments are concerned, we are open to continue to proceed in committee work, hence our request to refer the project to committee. There was also a question about the elections, why people have such a small influence on the choice of authorities of the metropolitan union. I think it was Mr Kukiz15 who asked this question. It is by a resolution of the commune council that the authorities are elected, the resolution of the commune council decides to join the metropolitan union, the commune council, i.e. the authorities of the commune legally elected in the general election. We might as well ask why. The Goap does not elect for the board of directors in the general election. There were also reservations about functions, basic functions, transport, their implementation. We mention the integration of the metropolitan union, so that, of course, spatial policy, spatial governance, common transport policy, promotion and investor acquisition are jointly implemented. We are also talking about the centre of common services, which would first of all bring savings, about the implementation of these specialist functions: legal, IT for individual municipalities, i.e. here the economies of scale would be achieved. I stress that in the current situation there is a great need, a good chance that we will work on this law for Poznan. For 8 years, however, the Civic Platform has not implemented, in addition to the 2015 Act, at the end of its term of office, any steps to speed up the integration that has already been taking place for 10 years within the Poznań agglomeration. In my speech I gave examples of metropolises just in Europe, metropolises very well functioning, which have a population of 1 million, although there are individual cities, such as Helsinki, which have 400 thousand. residents. There was a reservation here about the size of the metropolis. I think you pointed that out to the Undersecretary at the Ministry. This is not a good counter-argument, because it is the millions of metropolises that are developing very well, we have very good examples of such European metropolises. Currently, in our bill we refer - there were questions about financing - to the Income Act. Our proposal, our self-correction... During the committee work we will put in our bill that 5% the value of the PIT tax will remain in the relationship. We have a ready-made self-correction in this area, only this depends on good will, above all political will, because there is no such law for Poznań that does not arise. It is the will of residents, local government, the result of the already ongoing integration of Poznań and the surrounding municipalities. I therefore request that this law be referred back to the committee for further work to take into account all expectations, all comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u313	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on the Parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. This project assumes that the Poznan Metropolitan Union could be established in the area of Wielkopolska Voivodship. It would constitute an association of municipalities and powiats located in this voivodship (with mandatory participation of the city on the rights of the Poznań district), covering a spatially coherent area of impact of Poznań, characterised by strong functional links, inhabited by at least 600,000 inhabitants. As in the case of other associations, the association would be provided with legal personality, its system would be governed by the statutes (concluded with the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for public administration) and its independence would be subject to judicial protection. The Union would perform public tasks on its own behalf and on its own responsibility. His organs would be the assembly and the board. The establishment of this form of association, as well as the establishment and modification of its borders by identifying the participating municipalities, would take place by means of regulations of the Council of Ministers. Regulations would be issued at the request of the Minister responsible for administration or council of the municipality whose area would be within the limits of the union (through the Wielkopolska Voivodeship). In the case of a regulation on the revision of borders, it would be mandatory to obtain the opinion of the assembly of the metropolitan union. Existing inter-gminal relationships, with the consent of the Poznań Metropolitan Union (expressed by the resolution of the union assembly), could decide, by means of a resolution of their own assembly, to transfer their rights and obligations to the metropolitan union (if the subject matter of the inter-gminal relationship would be related to the performance of the tasks of the Poznan Metropolitan Union). The project also indicated that the association would carry out public tasks for municipalities - members of the inter-governmental union - transferring their rights and obligations, not forming part of the metropolitan union within a period of 3 months, starting with the acquisition of rights and obligations. After this period, it is possible to carry out tasks for these municipalities on the basis of an agreement. The metropolitan union could carry out public tasks in the area of: public collective transport in the area of the union, shaping spatial governance, development of the union area, cooperation in determining the course of national and voivodship roads in the area of the union, promoting the union and its area and acting as a centre of services common to local governments and their units. On the basis of agreements concluded with the local government unit, the association could carry out public tasks falling within the scope of the operation of the municipality, district or local government or coordinate the implementation of these tasks. They should apply the provisions of the Municipal Government Act accordingly. Furthermore, on the basis of agreements concluded with the government administration, the relationship could carry out the tasks contracted. The President of the Council of Ministers and the voivode, and in financial matters, the Regional Audit Chamber, would supervise the activities of the metropolitan union. The provisions governing its implementation are limited to a minimum by reference to the proper application of the provisions of the Regional Government Act. High Izbo! The creation of the Poznań Metropolitan Union with a budget of PLN 140 million can significantly improve the functioning of the entire Poznań agglomeration. Importantly, this 140 million PLN would not in any way reduce the budgets of local governments, but would come from the 5% income tax paid by residents of municipalities in the association. Collective transport, development of spatial governance or the determination of roads of extra-local importance are all tasks that go beyond the horizon of one municipality. A new instrument is therefore needed to improve the joint performance of these tasks. Unlike the government draft law on the Upper Silesian agglomeration, the Poznań project does not impose anything on the municipalities. It doesn't even involve creating a new union under the law. Everything is based on a voluntary principle, i.e. respect for the subjectivity of local communities. The fact that the authors did not establish a rigid geographical framework and did not restrict access to the metropolitan union to municipalities located further away from Poznań should also be taken as a plus. However, we cannot overlook the critical voices that have recently appeared in Poznań. First of all, local government officials ask why you did not consult with them on this project. The lack of local authorities' opinions is not a good indication of the preparation of such a project for them. The comments submitted by the Poznań magistrate are also correct. The project involves artificially limiting Poznań's voice in the forum of the metropolis union to 40%, while the city actually accounts for more than half of the inhabitants of the metropolitan area. Let us also add that the project entails the need to prepare a number of amendments to the laws and other related documents and to draw up implementing acts. The absence of the latter at this stage hinders the comprehensive assessment of the draft law in terms of rights, obligations, benefits, risks that may affect both the individual members of the union and the entire union. The PSL Members' Club is in favour of referring the law to further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u315	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act (prints 1126 and 1222). I would like to ask Mr Michał Cieślak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report from the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation concerning the draft parliamentary law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act, print No 1126. The Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation recommends rejecting the parliamentary draft amendment to the Pharmaceutical Law Act, while arguing, seeing the need to include project assumptions in the ongoing work on a major revision of pharmaceutical law in the Ministry of Health. In the opinion of the committee, the project raises a wide range of controversy, mainly in the area of the impact of regulation on the wholesale and retail markets of medicines. The project in its shape can be anti-competitive and contribute to a significant increase in drug prices. The proposed rules aim at fragmentation of the market, which reduces freedom of competition. The Parliamentary draft law does not take into account the proposed regulations of the main and most important market participants, namely wholesalers, which play an important role in the pricing policy and the pharmacies system through various, not necessarily socially beneficial, commercial mechanisms. In addition, the project does not regulate the problem of the reverse drug distribution chain, i.e. export of medicines from Poland. Such a deep regulation concerning the part of the economy and the area of public life, such as health care, should be drawn up in accordance with the public and inter-ministerial consultation procedure and the proper and detailed development of the impact of the regulation, which is not possible by the parliamentary proposal. The draft law does not provide an adequate analysis of the impact of the proposed regulation on the economic interests of consumers, in particular on the prices of medicines. In the explanatory memorandum of the project, these issues should first and foremost be examined, subject to consideration. The proposed regulations allow the fear that in Poland a pharmacy will be open by a pharmacist, a citizen of another country, and will not be able to open a Polish entrepreneur pharmacy. In the light of so many doubts, the committee is not in favour of any of the parties to this market and asks for the rejection of the parliamentary bill, while recommending the inclusion of its assumptions in the work currently underway in the Ministry of Health on a major revision of the pharmaceutical law. I would just like to add that the committee recognises the urgent need for work on the revision of pharmaceutical law, in particular in the areas of: 1-percent market concentration, aggressive market operators' policy on the creation of new pharmacies, reverse distribution chain, namely export of medicines from Poland, supervision of clinics, the role of wholesalers in the trading system, the role of pharmacists in the market system. At the same time, the committee considers as an appropriate concept of ensuring the economic security of individual pharmacies in conflict with the current market model in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u317	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u318	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak at the point concerning the report of the committee on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law, in print no. 1126 and 1222. I must say that I am very surprised to find that I have referred this proposal to the opinion that it is rejected without debate, discussion, making certain changes to this project, which are perhaps right. I must also say that during these many years, because the four term of office in the Sejm, despite the procedure of various kinds of laws, we have never - and we have talked about various laws, very often very complicated, concerning the regulation of a large part of the market and large sums of money - I have not observed such strange moods, reactions and discussions about one or another act with an attempt to influence, of course legal, on Members, not to adopt, to adopt this law. What, then, is hidden in this particular point, a project which, as I stressed at the beginning, is not to be discussed at all, not to be subject to possible changes, but simply to be immediately rejected? This process is called, ladies and gentlemen, a certain distinction and a certain balance. Do we want to have only pharmacies in Poland, or do we want to keep the status quo with some kind of - this also needs to be made clear, because this is also the result of this project - a tilt for pharmacies? Because if new drugstores cannot be created in a given area, because there are enough drugstores, there is enough density, then - let's not have any illusions - patients, people using pharmacies that will be eliminated due to too much competition, rather they will sail away to those network pharmacies that will certainly be stronger in the area. But it wasn't enough, at least for some. It is about what I personally observe in the next hundreds of applications submitted in instant mode, so as to still make time before this law, and these applications concern only representatives of the network, or about what I observe in front of my parliamentary office, where the historic, oldest pharmacy in my city ceased to exist, because right next door to the door, a network pharmacy has grown. Let's think, ladies and gentlemen - because this is what's called - what's important to the patient. I'm sure both are important to the patient. Let these network drugstores operate, which are currently on the market, but let these individual drugstores also function, which are at the moment, because this determines some differentiation, as well as some competition, healthy competition. If the market is dominated by two, three or even several players, there will be no competition, ladies and gentlemen. Only then will there be a monopoly dictation. That's where I think... This is my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, so that this motion for this bill to return to the committee, unless it is the will of the marshal, the will of the High House and the rules of procedure to allow another committee to do so too, e.g. The Health Committee. But anyway, we are in favour of not rejecting this project at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that it continues to be processed. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u319	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Joanna Mucha, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club on the revision of the Pharmaceutical Law Act 1126 and 1222. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my great surprise - I think I am a representative of the entire club here - caused by this two-voiced voice that we have just watched, Members who, on the one hand, criticize this project in a way, I would say, absolutely overwhelming, and on the other hand express an opinion, say to work on the project. So I don't know how to... [[On behalf of the club...]] ... Your work on this project will look good. The list of objections raised by experts, by various institutions, by the social side on this project is very long. These are reservations concerning non-constitutionality and infringement of Union law or competition standards. However, the most important charge in my opinion is that this law does not in any way counteract the problems of the pharmacy market. Its introduction would, on the other hand, preserve all the shortcomings of this market in its current form. It is worth mentioning here the most important restrictions that already exist in Polish law, the fact that according to the applicable law, the pharmacy manager can only be a pharmacist, the concentration rate of 1% pharmacies in voivodship - I mention only the most important restrictions. We are aware that the problem is the bankruptcy of private, independent pharmacies in Poland as a result of the networking of this market. We are aware that we are dealing with unfair practices, unfair competition in this market. We know about the export of drugs abroad, about the unsustainable distribution of pharmacies and consequently their low availability to many patients, but this project, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve any of these problems, while, we fear, creates new ones. The assumption that a pharmacy would only be owned by a pharmacist, restricts the access of pharmacists to capital, to investors, creates huge problems for pharmacists if they temporarily had to suspend running their company, makes it impossible to inherit a pharmacy, except in exceptional circumstances. The problem would even be a situation in which a pharmacy would be terminated by a lease agreement because new geographical constraints, demographic restrictions, would probably make it unlikely that it could reopen its business. Such solutions are also corrupt. Applicants propose that the pharmacist may have up to four pharmacys. One might ask why not three, why not five, and why on this market we would create such restrictions at such a low level. How does this apply to Mr Morawiecki's plan? Finally, I would like to mention the dramatically opaque way of working on this law, about the fact that it was submitted by the parliamentary team, presented at the first meeting of the committee by a Member, who, it is important to say, had such an impression, did not know the principles of this law. Many questions are also raised by Mr Morawiecki's talks with representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, investors from outside Poland. I have not yet received an answer to the interpellation concerning these talks, because I have addressed such an interpellation to the Prime Minister. The project was brought to the first meeting of the committee and followed by the votes of the PiS Members, with the same votes rejected at the second meeting of the committee, and now we find that it is to be procedated. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ask who, for what purpose and in what interest. [[We'll answer that.]] That's a really good question here. I have the impression that this law is another example of your application of the principle that complex problems can be solved by fighting. You can't do that. You will create only more problems for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish patients, and these will be problems that will be really difficult to solve if this solution is to function, because these solutions preserve bad practices that exist in this market. We all want Polish patients to have safe medicines so that they can have good access to the pharmacy. We also care about the success of Polish entrepreneurs in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So if you propose a project that guarantees all these things, we will, of course, be in favour. On the other hand, with regard to this particular project, the Civic Platform Club will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u321	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years Poland has been torn apart by numerous interest groups, interest groups who lobby for certain favourable regulations, interest groups for which there is very much money. And I have the impression that once again we are dealing with an input of certain interest groups who want to make money at the expense of lower drug prices, at the expense of citizens' freedom, at the expense of freedom of economic activity. Mrs Mucha was afraid to say what business groups it was about. I'm not gonna be afraid to tell you, and I'm just gonna tell you who's gonna benefit from this project. [[You.]] Because there's only one business that's gonna benefit from it, and it's gonna cost citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, all the arguments put forward here, in the plenary room, which were quoted in the committee for this bill, are false, they are to be overthrown in one sentence. The pharmacists who came to the committee meeting unanimously overturned these arguments. Of course, I am not talking about those lobbying for this law who have links with interest groups in which these regulations are of interest. You're threatening foreign capital. 96% pharmacies in Poland - I am based here on data from the report of the Republican Foundation related to Law and Justice - are pharmacies in the hands of Polish capital. So what kind of threat are we talking about on the part of foreign capital? Ladies and gentlemen, please indicate to me the second such area of the economy so highly socialised. It's only five pharmacies. Of course there is lobbying from Israel, Canada, etc., but we have much bigger lobbying here, and it is not from pharmacies, but from corporations, pharmaceutical wholesalers. It is these companies that aim to make the pharmacy market as fragmented as possible. It is the pharmaceutical wholesalers who want to impose as much as possible on us as possible on the prices of medicines and it is in their interest that they have the total advantage of negotiating over small pharmacies, destroying Polish pharmacy networks so that small pharmacies can impose as much as possible and that customers pay more for drugs. And if, under the influence of this huge lobbying, you insist on lobbying - and I know that there are phone calls to the parliamentary offices, the ladies who say they have a 30-year-old pharmacy, as I ask, where is this pharmacy located, you are unable to answer - then you will be responsible for the increased price of medicines. These are really huge companies - a few billion turnover per year, 30% of the pharmaceutical market. And what are we talking about here? A few small pharmacy networks? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the best proof that this law should be rejected is that it was sent to the deregulation committee, the committee which, in the appointing resolution, had it written that this committee was to deal with deregulation of the economy, facilitating business activity in Poland, not regulating, not creating some caste, not creating some medieval professional traits with limited access. Like a pharmacy student who's gonna graduate from school, like a person who's gonna open a pharmacy, if we determine that it's not gonna be possible to open a pharmacy a kilometer away from an existing pharmacy, that it won't be possible to open a pharmacy when there's already one pharmacy out of 3,000. The residents? This is a clear violation of the freedoms of economic activity guaranteed to us by the Constitution. We must not allow this House to enslave our society in this way. Indeed, all the arguments that you make here have been overturned in committee and I am able to deal with these arguments. Think about it. If anyone is interested, I will be happy to provide information on who, how lobbying for this law is financially linked to companies that will benefit from this law. The total fragmentation of the pharmacy market will only lead to young pharmacists not being able to assume that this department will be completely ossified and drug prices will increase. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, let's deregulate, make life easier for people, and let's not get manipulated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the huge lobbyists' interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Act amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act, in print No 1126, and the report of the committee, in print No 1222. From the beginning of the process of this law we had huge reservations about this project, to prepare this project, which in our opinion was created outside the Sejm. The press release clearly confirmed that this project was prepared by the lawyers of the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber and, as it should be stressed, that indeed the institution most interested in these solutions was the Supreme Bar Council. [[Pharmacy.]] We were surprised that when the Ministry of Health plans to prepare a new draft pharmaceutical law, a large law, a group of Members announces a project that goes to the Sejm in a very strange way, namely by a deregulation committee, assuming that both the Health Committee and the economic committee are not in the hands of the PiS, because the chairman is of opposition. It was very strange. There is no doubt that the pharmacy market should be regulated, but we cannot agree - and we will not agree - to do so at the expense of stakeholders. We are in favour of defining rules that will ensure first and foremost better access to medicines and such measures as to make them the cheapest. However, in all the studies that have been presented to us, we have not seen this argument and clear reasons to actually do so. And to be honest, this bill doesn't guarantee better access to drugs and lower costs. It is worth asking ourselves whether family pharmacies, small Polish networks on this bill gain anything. The answer is no. The biggest beneficiary of this bill will be the largest pharmaceutical wholesaler with 30%. The market, which does not have its pharmacies - this should also be emphasised - which, through merchant loans, loyalty programs and lending to pharmacies will bind single pharmacies and impose high prices on them, which will result in their low competitiveness and financial difficulties, and we are currently dealing with this action. It is also not without significance that since the arrival of this project, the stock of this wholesaler has gone up and is currently worth 1/4 more. It also questions the activity of one of the associations, which is very lobbying for the proposed solutions. It so happens that the people on his board are connected to the company mentioned earlier. And so under the jacket of fighting networks, taking care of the family pharmacy, some group wants to make an amendment at all costs. I am also surprised that the very negative position of the Ministry of Development has basically been classified, which has been completely ignored. If the Chief Pharmacy Council really wanted to help small family pharmacies and small Polish networks, it would create a purchasing group of several thousand pharmacies, and I assure you that they would achieve much lower drug rates than they are currently on those networks you are trying to fight. And this is the way to improve the situation of these little pharmacies, not what you're doing. You promote a lobbyist bill at all costs. Once you backed out of it, voting against the committee, someone pressed the right button again and you changed your mind. Think about it because it's right for the CBA to decide who's behind it. And it's the right thing to do. [[Applause]] [[It's definitely CBA.]] High Izbo! Recently, the Member called the law on tree cutting a lobbying law. This one seems lobbying squared. The Modern Club will be in favour of rejecting the law at first reading and I appeal to the PiS Members for a similar vote, as they did at the committee meeting. This is not a weekly from my fairy tale, read an article about this bill in the weekly Network. This is shocking, and all the information in there is true, because this weekly would not be exposed to legal proceedings. I recommend reading to you. You'll find something about yourselves there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Will Mr Kobylinski be...? Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u326	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our opinion, our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. The bill we're talking about right now will name a whole series of unexpected, strange actions and surprising phrases. High Izbo, we are talking about a very important law regulating or - perhaps better to say so - interfering in a large market, in a market worth about 35 billion PLN and operated by about 15 thousand PLN. entities. What seems very important to us, or perhaps most importantly, is not the usual product in this market - we are talking about medicines, we are talking about health, and often about the life of a patient, this client. The first of a series of strange actions is that Members, a group of Members, are the applicants. We know it's a big challenge, and that's why it's a surprise, because the bill actually covers a whole range of regulations. And the committee addressed to this project - deregulation, and with all due respect, the matter of the bill is regulatory, not deregulation, as the name of the committee and the rules of this committee would indicate. Another surprise, my surprise, concerns the course of the discussion during the so-called. first reading, as well as whole volumes of opinions and hyperactivity, so it is called, lobbying, including entities, representation of foreign countries. That's what happened. And of course, all of the extremely different opposite positions present opinions about the need for access to pharmacies, about the cost of drugs. Everyone leans over rural areas above all else. As I speak of strange behaviours, it is also impossible not to qualify one of the Members for rejection. To my surprise, PiS Members, who had defended the provisions of the Act as independence a few weeks earlier, raised their hands in favour of a motion for rejection. As a representative of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I did not support this proposal. After analysis at the club, I would like to state that we will vote against rejection. We believe that this is a very important and necessary law. Without waiting for a comprehensive regulation of pharmaceutical law, on which work may take months, we want to work on this project. We want to respond to the opinion of the government that Minister Krzysztof Łanda gave on this committee, with which we agree in many respects. It is hard not to agree that over the past few years there has been an evolution of the fact that on one side there is a pharmacy as a health care facility and on the other there is a pharmacy as a regular shop. This negative evolution is also manifested by the fact that on one side there is an apothecary who takes care of pharmaceuticals, and on the other hand there is an ordinary seller who simply spends the goods. Unfortunately, there is a trend in bringing a pharmacist into the role of seller, shopkeeper, of course, without insulting anyone. And finally, the most important thing. This project only applies to newly created pharmacies. What about demographic-geographical criteria? Can't you see that today's drugstores are on traffic lines, on transport hubs, where there are customer routes? Many, many of the sick in these rural environments, over which some lean, no longer have access or access to drugs. You have to stop these bad tendencies. We are ready to work on the project submitted. This observed trend of degradation of the pharmaceutical profession, and we are all aware of the difficulties in completing this type of course studies, must be stopped. We must also be aware of the announcement of changes in the health system. After all, they, let's tell each other the truth, will dismiss medical care, so maybe it's worth considering changing the character of the pharmacy as the store I was talking about, e.g. to the pharmaceutical office extending the offer by far-reaching assistance to the patient. In our view, these are expected changes in the pharmaceutical market and the sooner we introduce them, the better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I would like to say once again that we are in favour of continuing to work on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u327	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Margaret Zwierzan made a statement in writing. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law reflects the dilemma whether to promote deregulation or to introduce strict regulation of the pharmaceutical market. In my opinion, the proposals are going in the right direction. In recent years the number of online pharmacies has increased dramatically, and traditional Polish individual pharmacies disappear from the market. From 2014 up to 78% all closed pharmacies in Poland are such pharmacies. The proposals are designed to slow down adverse trends and freeze the current state of affairs. My questions related to this: Will the regulations put in place improve the availability of medicines and pharmaceutical services, especially in rural areas and small-town environments? Will they restore the role of a pharmacy as a health care facility, not a store that is purely profit-oriented, or will they deepen this phenomenon? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they reduce pathology, e.g. related to the decision by pharmaceutical wholesalers to supply certain drugs with only selected pharmacies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u329	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u330	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, we do not have an effective right, a sealed mechanism, which would protect the Polish pharmacy market from monopolization, and protect it from foreign capital acquisitions. However, it should be stressed that many good things have been done in recent years. An example of this is the actions taken by Minister Bartosz Arłukowicz and the previous parliament. In particular, it is about the adoption of an anti-export law, a refund bill, a ban on advertising pharmacies or anti-concentration laws. There is therefore a need for appropriate regulation, and this seems necessary, but some of the provisions that are proposed and the procedure at the level of the deregulation committee raise doubts. And questions. Is it true that most European Union countries specifically protect the retail market for medicines, as shown, among other things. the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau? Is it true that foreign pharmacy networks have been violating anti-concentration records for years? Is it true that the ambassadors of Israel, Canada, Lithuania and the United States put pressure on the Polish government not to adopt this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] May I finish this, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u331	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u332	Is it true that today's draft law was supported by: the General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, the General Chamber of Medicine, the Polish Pharmaceutical Society, the local government of pharmacy students, the scientific community of medical universities and finally Polish drug producers? And last question: Is it true that the turnover of the pharmacies network for the last year amounted to more than 80 billion PLN, i.e. 70% the value of the market, and the revenue to the state budget from CIT tax - only 30 million? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u333	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the new pharmaceutical law, pharmacies with an important permit will be allowed to continue on the old basis. The new law is intended to apply to new pharmaceutical operators. Here is a very important issue from the point of view of doing business in the marketing of pharmaceuticals related to the expiry of the authorisation. Now, the permit for running a pharmacy expires, among other things. in the event of termination of the activity. And at this point, it is not known how this will work if the authorised entity wishes to sell the pharmacy to another entity. Will it be possible to transfer the existing authorisation to a new entity? In my view, it is necessary to clarify the provisions of the new law in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u335	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with the question. Minister, will you agree with me that the pharmacy market in Poland is one big pathology? There are 20 pharmacies in a 50-thousand-dollar city like Starogard. Three drugstores are within a 20-m radius, wall to wall, getting ready for four. What's the threat? Of course, it is not a discovery that this threatens total monopolization in a short time, the elimination of small pharmacies, the degradation of the importance of the pharmaceutical profession, which is really a great harm to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are the only country in Europe where there is no regulation in this area. She's a free American. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At present, 60% of the capital is in the hands of the network, contrary to the number of operators in terms of setting up family pharmacies in relation to the network. Most of the capital is on the net side right now. Pharmacy is a health care facility, it cannot be treated in a similar way as a shop, like any other point. That's what we need to keep in mind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a brief question for the rapporteur. I'm not going to discuss pathology that exists in the pharmaceutical market because it's been repeated many times, so it's a waste of time. Turns out we all want to fix it, only recipes are different. After all, the bill we proposed, which is commonly called a pharmacy for a pharmacist, does not even regulate these pathologies. She deals with new pharmacies, she freezes the current situation, she's kind of a moratorium. I have a question for the rapporteur: What would happen if we really rejected this law? What would be the impact on the pharmaceutical market, for patients, if we rejected this law, when we know that proceding and preparing a large pharmaceutical law It's almost a year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u339	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u340	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Do applicants, following the weekly in the Network, have knowledge of whether there are personal links between the chief pharmacy council and members of the supervisory board of one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in Poland? Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for proceding this law really raises a lot of doubts. It can't be that it goes to the deregulation committee in a strange way, where there are no leaders from the ruling party. It's weird lobbying, isn't it? I see some pretty weird coalitions here about this bill. Once you say one thing, then you say another. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this address is: Ujazdowskie 9 Avenue? This is Central Corruption Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. I hope it takes care of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish pharmacy market certainly requires changes, reforms. The amendment proposed by the applicants has such a very nice name: pharmacy for pharmacists. And I would suggest that you may think, a pharmacy for patients. It's so much more convincing to me. [[That's your name, not ours.]] [[There's a plumber's pharmacy here...]] Talk about plumbing, and I'll tell you, you're going that way, you can't defend what you want to do. Tell me: How did you calculate the distance? What are the arguments to bring this up? Why 1 km, not 500 m, maybe 600 m, maybe 30 m? Explain that. How can the mechanism work when reducing supply is expected to lower prices? It's irrational. That's not how the economy works. I'm not teaching you. Maybe I could teach you plumbing here because I can do a little bit, but the economy is harder. You can't reach it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] lower prices when reducing supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, it is good for the CBA to take care of this matter - I have no doubt about it - as little as possible. It is worth looking at the lobbying that was taking place around this case. But it's also worthwhile to clarify some things. And that's what I wanted to ask the Minister. Because yes: some say, Minister, that there will be a kind of armageddon if it is in accordance with this law de facto freeze, maintain the status quo and, of course, the possibility of opening pharmacies in other new places, such as the newly formed settlements. Then why isn't this armageddon here right now? Because all these horrible things should be happening right now, today, at this hour, prices should be rising, all these bad things should be happening. Why isn't this happening? And then you have to ask what it's like in other countries because someone asked about these distances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It may be useful to inform Members who simply do not see it and who speak, as is the case in the countries that we respect today - today a decision will be taken on who is to guide the European Commission - Germany, France and many other countries. It is worth saying what it is like for such Germans or Frenchmen, and finally how it happened in those countries where unfortunately the networks dominated the market and eliminated individual pharmacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you for the opportunity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The fact that you have to do something about pharmacies is obvious, because today they look like everything, just not pharmacies. This is some weird mix of drugstores, sex shops, drugstores, bookstores, God knows what else. You really have to do something about it. But what you have prepared is indeed appropriate, as some Members have said, to the CBA. I have two questions. One question is to the authors of this law, i.e. to the persons who signed the bill. Who specifically, specifically, the names, was the author of this bill, because you all didn't write it at the same time? Who specifically was the author of this bill? And I have a question for the Minister. You're in charge of a year and a half, and pharmaceutical law is a setback. Nobody's really working on it? When can we expect concrete solutions on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u347	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and answer these questions. I'll start with the last question. Of course we are working on pharmaceutical law, a major amendment of pharmaceutical law and de facto the bill is ready. Only, ladies and gentlemen, a very important point is that the process of this project will probably take at least 6, 9, and perhaps more months. There are very sensitive records in the pharmacies market. This armageddon does not exist. The draft parliamentary law de facto should be called the draft of a new pharmacy for a pharmacist, because it does not really apply to this market, which today is extensive and which is functioning today, so it is difficult for this law to create some radical changes in this market. However, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, if we do not have a cover law which, as it were, freezes the status quo during the long process of pharmaceutical law, there will be many irregularities in this market. And now the obvious solution... Here the parliamentary project was fully accepted by the Minister of Health. This project is part of our plans, which are included in the proposal for a major revision of pharmaceutical law. As Mr Jan Łopata said here, it is indeed in the plans of the Ministry of Health to maintain the status quo, i.e. We don't want domination on the market or individual pharmacies. It seems to us that this breakdown is 30% to the network pharmacies vs. 60/70% in favour of individual pharmacies is a healthy solution, because, firstly, the network does not have a dictation here, secondly, the existence of a network causes that there is no corporateity in this respect. It's healthy, I think, balance. In addition, please definitely remember who dominates here, in other words who is the victim here and who is the dominant. Ladies and gentlemen, if anybody asks - such voices were - that poor networks would have some extremely poor conditions, then, ladies and gentlemen, let's note that, with the current almost really present, network pharmacies are gaining a dominant position. As someone here rightly mentioned, this is about 60% of the capital on the market. Recently, gentlemen, since this parliamentary project has been being examined, there are already 130 applications only under appeal in the GIF. On the other hand, we see the incredible activity of the pharmacies network when it comes to applying for new pharmacies. Ladies and gentlemen, why are there appeals? Because the applicant immediately suspends the proceedings, waiting for the decision to be taken. Such irregularities will be immense if we begin to proceed with a proposal for pharmaceutical law, a major amendment, without a cover bill, which would be this parliamentary project. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of a very important thing. Someone mentioned the position of Minister of Development. I'll tell you what the post is later, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. It is clear. The project is fully supported by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, with the exception of one provision concerning a pharmacy for a pharmacist, a new pharmacy for a pharmacist. So the economic committee agreed to all the provisions concerning geographical and demographic criteria, personal companies and other records, apart from the one relating to the fact that the owner of the new pharmacy could also be a non-pharmaceutical, and I would point out that the Minister of Health is also behind the fact that the new pharmacy is for the pharmacist. Of course, there is no government position on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, here were the economics issues mentioned. Economics and health economics, but I have to say, they're a little different. The drug isn't just a commodity, and the pharmacist isn't just a shopkeeper. If you see what's going on, what irregularities are happening in the unfunded assortment, you'll also see what the game is about, which is aimed at hitting this project. There is no irregularity regarding the most important drugs in pharmacies, there is no problem because the prices of these medicines are negotiated at the Ministry of Health, and these are the most important medicines for Poles, those which are refunded. There the prices are rigid, the price cannot be different in any pharmacy in Poland. However, irregularities occur in the non-refundable segment. Often they are not really the main problem of drugs in general, i.e. medicinal products, most often this happens, please, in the case of Poles abused dietary supplements and other preparations and online pharmacies. I understand that a large maybe more, and I would understand the difference, let's say, 5 zł between the product that has a network pharmacy, and the one that has an individual pharmacy, but if the network pharmacy starts selling drugs at dumped prices, below the cost of manufacturing and distribution, then nobody will. She won't tell me it's a healthy competition, because she's not healthy at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the health benefit market must be a regulated market, it has always been, is and will be a regulated market. Let's just hope these regulations are right. Current regulations do not work. We have designed these regulations, a really big bill that this market will regulate better, but we have to have some cover bill, otherwise, as I say, something bad happened. As far as similar regulations are concerned, i.e. geographical and demographic criteria, the High House should know that they operate in many countries, e.g. in Austria, Croatia, France, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Malta. In Germany, too, this market is highly regulated. Where'd you get 1,000 meters? Ladies and gentlemen, this came from the UOKiK report: the transition of 500 m from one point should not be a problem for the patient. As for the new pharmacy for the pharmacist, because that is what I think this project should be called, I will first remind you of the second password mentioned here: the pharmacy for the patient. This slogan, which I spoke about in the committee, will lead to a major revision of the pharmaceutical law. I am pleased that the Member has remembered this password. Indeed, this market is very bad, there is a lot of pathology, and I think we must finally step in on this market, but as I say, we need a cover bill. To answer another question: yes, there were pressures from the embassies of Lithuania, the United States and Israel. The capital of these countries is represented in networks. Indeed, with regard to individual pharmacys, they pay taxes here, in Poland, while compared to the huge capital invested in the network, taxes paid in Poland remain, I would say, in a huge imbalance. The next thing you know, it's about... I cannot agree, ladies and gentlemen, with the fact that young pharmacists will not be able to put on a pharmacy - on the contrary. On the other hand, as regards the availability of pharmacies, here too, the fact that the geographical and demographic criteria cause de facto expansion of this network, the existing pharmacies infrastructure, is going to be closer to the patient. Today pharmacies are located on large traffic lines, by roads, at very important communication points, which is of course an easy trip. In fact, drugstores are actually concentrated one by one. In fact, there is an unfair game: next to the pharmacy that existed there for 20 or 30 years, one or two pharmacies open up, they lower prices, as I say, in this non-refundable segment, finish the pharmacy that has been there so far, functioned, and gain... Then, of course, they raise prices. That's the kind of signal we've tested, and that's the immensity. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not regulate the export of refunded medicines, of course illegal exports, and was not intended to regulate this. I do not think that this was the intention of Members to regulate drug exports, but we have legislation in pharmaceutical law and a major revision of pharmaceutical law, and we also had in the Act on Rescue Access to Drug Technologies, which in fact eliminated the cause of illegal export of medicines refunded. So these are the rules that just don't apply to this project. The role of a pharmacist. Ladies and gentlemen, we want the apothecary not to be brought into the role... Since the state is putting a huge amount of money into the education of pharmacists, we don't want them to become ordinary salesmen who have to make some standards, push their patients into drugs, not having time for pharmaceutical care at all, advice. In a major revision of pharmaceutical law we will introduce pharmaceutical care in a completely new way, in my opinion. Again: this project does not concern this scope. Let me repeat: a pharmacist cannot be brought into the role of an ordinary seller, since the state puts so much on his education, and as I say, we have a shortage of doctors on the market. I guess that's it. Thank you very much. If there are any questions, of course I'm available. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u349	Thank you very much. Will the applicant's representative, Mr Waldemar Buda, want to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. And yet, I don't know if you know, but Donald Tusk has been elected for his next term. [[Voice from the room: Already?]] That's right, the information just came out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u350	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said here about the project presented, but let us ask ourselves the basic question: Who is on one side and who is on the other side? And who's gonna charge who with lobbying in this case? On one side we have large, very rich pharmacy networks, on the other side we have individual, small drugstores that are fighting for survival today. Today you can call people of false awareness of all those who come out here and say that the project is bad and at the same time accuse lobbying those who want to help these small, small, individual, fragmented pharmacists. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not let ourselves believe that we in Poland can do less. Italy could, Austria could, France could, a whole crowd of countries could. We cannot regulate the pharmaceutical market, we cannot defend it against foreign capital and from entities, huge entities that are about to be taken over, even if they are Polish today, they will be taken over by foreign capital in a moment. And we can learn about this not from the Polish press, because in the Polish press people who submitted this project are being slandered, but in the Israeli press one can read that foreign networks have plans to invade the Polish market and have plans to take over 300 and 400 pharmacies a year, have plans to take over pharmacies capital in Poland. These are the true intentions of those who defend them today. Mr Meysztowicz stands in a row with those who at the embassy call for this bill not to be supported. In Germany, only a pharmacist can run a pharmacy? Maybe. Was there the same beating on the alarm? Is that where it is thought that these rules should be abandoned? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get crazy. We gave up the grocery market, we gave up the drugstore market, and today it turns out that in the great transport entity of the German Polish product it is not possible to sell that Polish cream is repacked in a shop abroad, in Germany, to bring it here and call it German cream. And that's what we're gonna do with the pharmaceutical retail sale. Soon the Polish replacement will not be able to be bought because it will be a foreign network that will dictate what will be on the shelves. Ladies and gentlemen, let us regulate this market so that there is a balance between the large ones already functioning today and the small ones who are immersed in 1,5 m underwater and ask them to survive and function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Will the committee rapporteur want to speak? I don't see your MP. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act. The procedural history of the project discussed today is quite turbulent, and certainly in many it arouses great emotions, which has been expressed many times during previous work in committees. However, in my speech I will focus more on the meritory of this amendment, because at this stage I consider it more important for the process and for the citizens to refer to concrete solutions proposed. Among them are the possibility of having pharmacies only to pharmacists entitled to pursue their profession, the limitation of the number of pharmacies owned or co-owned to four and the geographical and demographic regulation of the distribution of newly created pharmacies. The fact that the proposed regulations apply only to newly issued authorisations and not to authorisations already issued and in force needs to be highlighted. The opponents of this project are of the opinion that today's revision, the solutions contained in it restrict freedom of business and violate the principle of competitiveness. They point to current regulations in this area, such as the requirement to hire a pharmacist as a pharmacy manager and the need to increase enforcement of the provision on maximum 1-percent concentration of pharmacies in the voivodship. However, as the applicants point out - and as we can all conclude from the observation of the current state of our pharmacy market - these are not completely solving problems in this area. Contrary to the regulations banning concentration on this market, there are places where the main object of this novel is on every corner, while we can hardly see it on the outskirts of cities. Such uneven deployment limits access to pharmacies and thus access to medicines, to those citizens for whom mobility is difficult and who live precisely in those underdeveloped areas. In my opinion, it is also necessary to openly acknowledge what has also been raised many times during the work so far. The pharmacological market is not a completely free market. Due to its specific characteristics, tasks and role, it is necessary to introduce rules to maximise the protection of public health. However, I do not agree with applicants who claim that one such mechanism is a change allowing only pharmacists who have the right to pursue their profession to be allowed to open a pharmacy, although I find it absurd to inherit the pharmacy. In my opinion, the pharmaceutical owner's philanthropic education, despite the assurances of the designers, does not guarantee that the motivations he will pursue in business will be in line with the principles of professional ethics and that it will not be a priority for him to make a profit. In view of the support expressed by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers for this novel and the assurance during the work of the committee that it is part of the concept of changes in the health department, near Free and Solidarni proposes that it be directed to further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u353	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints no. 1333 and 1354). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Głogowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u354	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs to present information on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, contained in print no. 1333. I will say right away that this printing contains changes in two areas of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, not the most important areas, and these are changes, as has been shown by the uncontroversial work on them so far. These changes stem from two laws: the Act on the making available of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and the Act on the amendment of the Law on freedom of business, and implement the provisions of these laws in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The first group of amendments shall specify the mode of making environmental information available and its protection, which, in accordance with the Act on the Sejm and the Senate, must be specified in the Rules of Procedure of those Chambers of Parliament. These amendments state that such information will be provided at the written request of the person concerned - of course, such a request may be made through the Sejm Information System. They shall also determine when, in certain cases, the Head of the Sejm Office may refuse to provide such information, as well as the procedure for appealing or requesting that the person concerned reconsiders such a case. As regards the second area of change, this is a requirement to assess the expected impact of a draft law or regulation on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. According to the draft resolution, such an assessment will have to be a separate part of the justification for the draft law or regulation in the case of those documents which concern the property rights and obligations of traders or the rights and obligations of traders vis-à-vis public administrations. According to the provision of the resolution, this assessment will have to be a separate part of the justification, an assessment of the project's expected impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, and the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to return the draft law to the applicant if the justification does not meet this requirement. The resolution introduces transitional provisions which say that the existing rules will apply to projects that have already been submitted, on which Parliament has already started work. The proposal for this draft resolution is submitted by the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee, which has taken this resolution initiative as a result of suggestions made by Mr Marshal. At the committee meeting yesterday, this draft was unanimously supported and on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Edward Sulphur, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of my club, club of Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the committee draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, contained in print no. 1333. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure are intended to implement the provisions of laws already discussed in the Sejm. The first amendment, which is linked to the revision of the Sejm's rules, concerns a large package by the Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, refers to micro-enterprises and to everything related to entrepreneurial activities, namely, we propose that the Sejm's rules state that all those who submit draft laws affecting the activities of enterprises will be required in a justification, in a special part of this justification, to state what impact the legislative arrangements will have on entrepreneurial activities. It is very important if we really want Mr Morawiecki's package to be implemented. This is an important solution and therefore the committee and my club support this solution so that there is a special provision in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in Article. 34 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm requiring all those who submit new projects for micro-enterprises to attach such justification to draft laws. The second solution, which is related to the extension of the provisions of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, refers to the solutions adopted in the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. According to the provisions of this law, state authorities, in this case This is the Sejm, the Senate, as well as others, the President's Office, tribunals and other institutions, are obliged to provide public information on the environment in a way that is accessible to the public. These are, in the case of the Sejm, various documents which are the subject of the work of the High Chamber, both those, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which receive a statutory form, as well as various types of opinions or other materials relating to the environment. The Law and Justice Club supports the amendments to the Rules of Procedure proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u357	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u358	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, to present a position on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm submitted by the Rules of Procedure, the Polish Parliament and the Immunity Commission provides for the alignment of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the new information obligations imposed by the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, as well as the obligation to assess the scope of the new regulations imposed by the Law on the amendment of the Law on freedom of business. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection instructs the High House to lay down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm rules on the making available of environmental information and its protection and the proposed draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure fully and well meets this obligation. Similarly, in the case of the Law amending the Law on the Freedom of Business, which requires the assessment of the impact of new legislation on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendment proposed by the High Commission sanctiones these provisions by requiring an assessment of the effects of the regulations to be made in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic. Given the technical nature of the proposed amendments, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the draft resolution submitted. Mrs. Marshal! If you don't mind, just when I'm talking about how technical these changes are, I just wanted to make a point. For several months there have been two parliamentary drafts for amending the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, which are much more concerned with the efficiency of the Sejm's operation, clarity and transparency in making certain decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the resolution on the amendment of the resolution concerning the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The institutions whose responsibilities it is to make environmental information available and protect it are the Polish Sejm. The procedure for providing this information has not yet been regulated, and this is unfortunately another example, because such an obligation has already been since 2008, ordering the state after the governments of the previous coalition. The proposed regulation also provides the possibility for the competent body of the Sejm to not make such information available in certain cases. However, in such a case, a procedure for appeal against such a decision shall be provided for. An important part of the project submitted is to take into account the regulations resulting from the adoption by the Sejm in January this year. Law on the freedom of economic activity. This is an assessment of the expected impact of draft laws or regulations on the activities of small businesses. This is a very good solution in terms of the competitiveness of the various operators' business activities and the protection of the interests of small, often family businesses. In view of the above circumstances, as well as the technical nature of the proposed amendment, the Kukiz club15 is in favour of the resolution submitted by the Sejm amending the rules of operation of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The modern one supports the changes contained in the above mentioned above. a resolution. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u363	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. None of you wanted to ask a question. The discussion is closed. We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates (Prints No 1325 and 1344). I would very much like to ask Mr Paweł Kobylinski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on printing 1325. Five amendments were adopted at yesterday's meeting, the first two being editorial. All amendments were accepted by the acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u365	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates. There has already been a third reading here in the Seym. There was a Senate resolution proposing five amendments. On 8 March, a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development was held which recommended the adoption of these amendments. The bill goes in the right direction, it's about giving up minimum rates. The Law and Justice Club supports the proposed amendments tabled at the time of the Senate Act. We will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u368	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The High Senate, with great insight, as usual, analyzed the law adopted by the Sejm concerning the amendment of the Law on Patent Ombudsmen. As a result of this work, he adopted five amendments of a linguistic nature concerning compliance with legislative techniques, harmonised the terminology of the law, clarified the principle of transitional provisions and clarified the rules for applying minimum rates in the existing legislation until the entry into force of the law. Recognising the need for amendments made by the High Senate, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u369	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law amending the Law on Patent Advocates, the main purpose of which was to regulate the application of minimum rates by patent Advocates and, above all, to waive the minimum rates levied by patent Advocates in contractual relations between the Advocate and the Customer, is supported by the Modern Club. The essence of the amendment to the Act was to take into account the comments made in the opinion of the European Commission to the Republic of Poland of 25 February 2016 on the minimum rates for patent attorneys laid down in Polish laws which, in their previous form, restricted the freedom of establishment and the cross-border provision of services by patent Advocates established in other Member States of the Union. In practice, we have observed a situation where, as a result of the existence of rigid minimum rates for patent services and the resulting lack of competition between patent attorneys, patent procedures were difficult to access, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals. After the amendment of the Act, which will remove the basic barrier to patent costs, it is expected that the interest of companies and individuals in patent protection of intellectual property will increase. For the amended act, the amendments proposed by the Senate aimed at eliminating grammatical errors, internal contradictions and interpretation doubts are also valuable, while at the same time seeking to ensure full consistency within the articles of the amended law, especially as regards articles laying down transitional provisions. In view of the above, we believe that the Law amending the Law on Patent Advocates - taking into account the recommendations made in the opinion of the Venice Commission - constitutes a serious convenience in relations between the Ombudsman and the customers. Taking into account the amendments proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, it welcomes the support of the Modern Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u371	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u372	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports the amendments tabled by the Senate. They raised no doubt during the committee's work, which is why we are in favour and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. As no one submitted a question, the list of Members voted in was exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the Senate's work on the draft law on patent attorneys, it was considered necessary to make five amendments to it. Among the amendments proposed by the senators is the withdrawal of the draft provision temporarily maintained by the Regulation adopted on the basis of the amended Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 as contrary to the rules of legislative technique. As a result of this procedure, the Minister of Justice will be required to step up the work on the new regulation, which should enter into force within the same time limit as the bill under review, so that we avoid creating a legal gap. The validity of this amendment does not raise my concerns. Other proposed amendments concern the improvement of the transitional provisions so that there is no doubt that the law complies with the principles of legislation. They are also intended to harmonise the terminology used in the draft law and to resolve possible interpretation doubts. These are positive amendments worth supporting. I must stress that, among the proposed changes and modifications, there are no such ones that could distort the principles of the law. Resignation from the regulation of minimum rates charged by patent agents is absolutely right. It will contribute to the competitiveness and cross-borderity of the services provided by the Ombudspersons and additionally takes into account the comments made in the European Commission's Opinion of 25 February 2016 on the minimum rates for ombudspersons laid down in Polish legislation. Therefore, the Free and Solidarnia wheel supports all the amendments of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u375	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I just wanted to thank you very much because we're behind schedule. [[What? Didn't I say enough?]] Unfortunately, as in life, we must announce a five-minute break, we must wait for the rapporteur. And we were doing so well. But thank you very much. [[Wait a minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen, maybe we can do the next point, because there are Members, so that they do not wait. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries (Prints No 1327 and 1345). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting yesterday, amendments to the Tax Information Exchange Act were discussed with other countries. Seven amendments were tabled to the Act. These amendments have been discussed in detail. Amendments 1 and 2 as well as amendments 3 to 7 were considered together. The amendments tabled after hearing the information of the representative of the government were accepted without objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u378	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee in Parliamentary Printing No 1327 on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 24 February 2017 on the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries. The amendments of Senate 1 and 3 indicate the Head of National Tax Administration as the recipient of tax information. Amendment 2 corrects the reference to the provisions concerning the modification of the expiry declaration or the repeal of an individual interpretation. Amendments 4 to 7 seek to repeal the provisions on information on interest payments and to ensure consistency of the Act insofar as the law introduces provisions on automatic exchange of information on reported accounts with a later date of entry into force. Amendments 4 to 7 provide for an extension of the catalogue of provisions foreseen for subsequent entry into force, Article. 89 and Article 89 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 91 to the extent that they refer to Article 91 of the Act. 89. This will prevent a situation in which, within an essential period of time, 7 days from the date of publication of the law, the provisions on fines for non-compliance with the obligations laid down in the heading enter into force This section would enter into force at a later date, i.e. on 1 May 2017. The indication of a separate date of entry into force of the provisions relating to information on interest payments shall include an extension of the catalogue of provisions foreseen for the separate entry into force of the transitional provisions of Article. 106 and Article 106 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L Those provisions, in so far as they refer to the wording of the Natural Persons Income Tax Act, should take account of the fact that the latter are repealed by the Act considered by the Senate, not within the essential time limit for its entry into force, i.e. 7 days from the date of its publication, but within the time limit indicated in the article. Point 110, point 1, i.e. as from 30 April 2017. The amendments of the Senate of the Republic of Poland align and order the rules, ensure the consistency of the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries, therefore Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports all 7 amendments of the Senate introduced in this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u379	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Law on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries, print No 1327. The Senate amendments, first of all, harmonise the provisions and prejudge that the addressee of the information indicated is the head of the National Tax Administration, second, correct the incorrect reference and, third, which is particularly important, ensure the consistency of the law, in particular the provisions with a later date of entry into force, concerning the automatic exchange of information on reported accounts. The Senate amendments are justified and the Civic Platform Club supports them in their entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u381	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długo is not here. And is Mr Michał Jaros? There isn't any either. This is the Member, please. I understand that the position of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to declare that our club will support the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u383	Thank you very much, sir. Since none of you have requested a question, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u384	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present a statement on the report of the Senate's committee on the Law on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries, in print No 1327 and 1345. The Act deals with the standardization of rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information with other countries, the obligations of financial institutions in the automatic exchange of tax information and the control of their execution, and the obligations for the automatic exchange of information derived from information on entities forming part of a group of entities. On 24 February this year. The Senate has introduced seven amendments to the bill. The addressee of information provided by entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland by a foreign establishment has been changed. In the government project it was originally the Minister for Public Finance, but the Senate replaced it with the head of the National Court Administration. An amendment was also made on the rules on fines. They are to be applied from 1 May 2017 in order to avoid the situation that the rules on penalties would enter into force faster than the section in which those penalties would be specified. The Modern Club believes that the amendments adopted by the Senate are a step in the right direction. Our comments have been taken into account regarding the fact that the law cannot act backwards and the obligation to identify and report for the period before the entry into force of the new law is unacceptable. The Modern Club - as in the vote in favour of the law after the third reading - will vote in favour of the amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u385	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. Once again, I am forced to announce a recess, but I would like to say that we are doing all the points now in due course, so it would be good for us to respect our time and time of colleagues and the time of representatives of the Ministry. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 25 hrs. 17 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Road Transport Monitoring System (Prints No 1329 and 1338). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u386	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting yesterday considered the Senate resolution, in which the Senate presented 11 amendments to the Act on the monitoring system for road freight transport. These amendments clarify and clarify the provisions. Amendment 1 e.g. specify the definition of the consignor by taking into account cases where the goods are moved after the goods have been transported. Amendment 2 makes it clear that the monitoring will not cover all consignments of goods below 500 kg weight or 500 l volume, as well as consignments of selected materials in small individual packages, even if the total weight of those consignments exceeds the set limit. These amendments also contain an amendment which clarifies what the necessary data are, which should be included in the documents confirming the inter-stock transfer of these goods. In addition, the amendments also clarify the relevant provisions that define the responsibility of the administration. These frames also provide for an extension of the scope of the exclusion of goods from the monitoring system. Several amendments are correctional errors of reference. One amendment deletes the provisions allowing the imposition of a security charge and the storage of a means of transport, the amount of which is determined not by common rules but by an agreement concluded between the tax authority and the designated private operator. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I ask the High House to vote on these amendments in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u387	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the club's position on the Road Freight Monitoring System Act. The Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution on 3 March 2017, proposing 11 amendments in total. In principle, they are defined in order or corrective in relation to the original project. The club takes the view that 10 of the 11 amendments should be considered justified. We recommend that only Amendment 7 be rejected. It concerns the principle of rounding up the maximum rate of fees for removal, storage and guarding of means of transport or goods. The Senate has proposed that it should result from a substantive provision addressed to the general addressees of the law, which applies the law to tax administrations and traders, rather than from a provision authorising the issue of a non-normative value but merely an informational notice by the competent minister. The club does not share the doubts that the Senate raised in Amendment 7. The parliamentary club, as I have already pointed out at first reading, is still in the position that we must fight the grey and black zone and the pathology of economic life and the tax collection system. Therefore, on behalf of the club, we will recommend, as I mentioned, the adoption of 10 of the 11 amendments proposed by the Senate, excluding Amendment 7. We are very pleased that the date of entry into force of this law has also been postponed, in line with the club's original recommendation, which is on 1 May, which goes against the concerns of entrepreneurs that they will not be able to adapt to the introduction of the new rules. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u389	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the Senate resolution introducing amendments to the Act on Road Freight Transport Monitoring System adopted by the Sejm, in print No 1329, and to the joint report of the Commission: Public Finance and Infrastructure in this case, in print No 1338. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During both the first and second readings, Members of the opposition strongly pointed out the need for a thorough work of this bill due to its serious shortcomings. We have applied for an emergency subcommittee with declarations of sound and rapid work, because we are convinced of the need to regulate the monitoring of the transport of sensitive goods beyond political divisions. Unfortunately, all the proposals and proposals for amendments were in vain. The stubbornness of the representative of the Minister of Finance and the undisputed government majority led to the adoption of a law in the form of a submission in accordance with the standard adopted in this term of office of the Sejm: Wednesday - first reading, Thursday - second reading, Friday - third reading and passed law. I would add that, at first reading, the social side drew attention to the specific shortcomings of the bill. Fortunately, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, when introducing amendments, significantly improved the passed law, but it needed for this work a certain time, that time, which unintelligibly wanted to spare the government's majority of the parliament. In addition, in correcting the bill passed, the Senate was forced to go beyond the form of the submission, which consequently exposes the bill to the charge of non-constitutionality after the legislative process and after the President's signature, which is why I do not agree with the rapporteur and the Member of the Law and Justice that these amendments are of a sequencing nature. These are very substantive amendments that really fix this bill and even go beyond the form of the proposal. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of the amendments as recommended by the joint committees. High Seym! In view of the quality of the law in the future and taking into account the experience of working on the law, I ask Members of the Government's majority: open yourselves to Members of the opposition for the sake of the law in question, for the quality of the laws adopted. I'm asking for basic trust. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Open yourselves up to the sovereign you so often refer to, because it is for the sovereign that we are the law here. Open up, just like Europe opened up to Donald Tusk today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u391	Mr Sylvester Khrushcz, the Kukiz club15, is absent. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the modern club, also absent. Therefore, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. [[There he is!]] Here you go, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u392	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments according to the submission and position of the committee. It is very important, as we stressed during the legislative process, to civilise this area so that it is in the right legal framework so that the amounts due can be enforced, which should feed the state budget. It is good that the Senate has examined the bill adopted by the High House so thoroughly. It is good that he has introduced these amendments which create and complement the areas which have been omitted in our House during the process. It is important that we can adopt the proper working mode after a year and a half of our operation, apply the appropriate requirements, procedures, take attention and want to work together. Let's not be afraid. No club, no Member who has come here, taking responsible choice and responsibilities, certainly does not want to be a bad law. Let us draw conclusions from this, let us be open, let us work together, after all, this cooperation in your exposé was encouraged by the Prime Minister. Let's respect our authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u393	Thank you very much. On the list of Members who wanted to ask questions, no one signed up. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Zuba, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank all the Members who have been actively working on this law very warmly. The bill was processed at the speed expected by Members. Each Member could comment, provided that he was involved in the work of the Committee on Public Finance, he could make his amendments, he did not have to wait for the amendments tabled by the Senate, although the Senate is specifically called for the underdeveloped rules, if they are, to correct, and it is not unusual. However, today, as you say, the bill is very much needed and you are declaring a vote regardless of which political side you are on, and I thank you very much for that too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u395	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 after the report of the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. The Act provides for the monitoring of the carriage by road of liquid fuels, contaminated alcohol and tobacco drought, i.e. goods often subject to irregularities in the settlement of VAT and excise duties and resulting in significant tax losses. The carriage of these goods is to be recorded and electronically supervised by satellite systems. He welcomes the fact that a number of things he spoke about were taken into account in the course of his work on the Law. Club Kukiz.15. It is good that the date of entry into force of the law is being modified. Rules introducing administrative liability, fines and criminal liability - fine - are to enter into force at a later date than the other provisions of the Act. The way in which the date of entry into force of the Act was differentiated was in breach of its consistency. The previous situation could have caused transport companies not to have sufficient time to prepare for new legal requirements, such as those related to them. with the need to equip the vehicle with the appropriate on-board equipment or driver training. It is pleased that the excessive rigour of the law has been reduced and it has been assumed that sensitive goods transported in small prepackages will not be covered by the monitoring system. Previous regulations threatened that transport companies would stop carrying oil because of their safety. There's a lot of small businesses like that. These companies send their goods to their customers by commercial couriers. Usually these businesses are too small to have their cars and deliver goods around the country. On the other hand, courier companies would, for obvious reasons, stop transporting goods included in the project, as they do not have time to pass on documents relating to the transport of one or two canisters. In the end, this would create a very difficult situation for the smallest, often family, companies. That is why this change is encouraging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u397	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds (prints 1326 and 1367). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u398	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, prints 1326 and 1367. The Senate proposed one amendment, which was welcomed and recommended by the Health Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u399	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u400	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The case is basically purely cosmetic. It is a question of matching deadlines and giving opportunities to better adapt information systems. Hence this amendment of the Senate, such a specific blowing to the cold, to certainly make time with everything, so that there is no slip and later need to amend the law. Hence the conclusion. I think that's the most important thing. With regard to the issue of this law, in its speech during the debate broadly I argued how important and necessary this law is. I don't want to repeat those arguments anymore. Thank you very much and on behalf of the Club Law and Justice to support the Senate amendment. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u401	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr. Rajmund Miller will perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, print No 1326. The Senate resolution introduces one amendment to the Act, which concerns the amendment to Article. 4 and extends the period of vacathio legis until 1 July 2017. The amended amendment allows the time for adapting the health system to the application of the new provisions and the need to meet the constitutional deadlines for legislative proceedings. The oncology package, which has been in operation for over a year, has received a positive opinion from both patient and expert groups, has shortened the waiting time for diagnostics and oncology treatment. Unfortunately, the Senate's resolution has not changed our critical attitude towards the following assumptions of the amendment, which may have negative consequences for patients. This applies to a record that makes it possible to waive the medical consilies currently made compulsory for patients at the beginning of the treatment process, i.e. from a team of specialists such as oncologists, surgeons, radio- and chemo therapists. Such a record poses a real threat to the proper functioning of consilies. Then refrain from reporting when issuing the DiLO card to the National Cancer Register. Due to the fact that there is still a low early diagnosis of cancer in Poland, particular emphasis should be placed on the intensive development of medical records, which objectively demonstrate the effectiveness of therapeutic procedures. Nor do we agree to refrain from seeking to improve quality indicators in the diagnosis process. We also have reservations about the technical part. The introduction of the DiLO card only in electronic form may make it difficult for the patient and medical staff to present the DiLO card at subsequent stages of diagnosis and treatment. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, because of the above objections to the provisions of the Act, maintains its negative assessment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds, prints No 1326 and 1367. The Senate was forced, i.e. He introduced a change that introduces vacathio legis, because the government did not foresee a quite simple law, that it would take time to implement it. I have no doubt that this is a good amendment and we will certainly support it, because this is a very important law, which should at least theoretically speed up the detection of cancers. But I'm concerned. If, with such a simple law, the government cannot predict that it needs time to implement it, then what will be the expected consequences of the so-called law. Hospital networks? It's a lot more complicated than that. She, too, needs to anticipate the effects of her actions, so I hope that, given this otherwise quite unpleasant to the government, for the ministry a statement when proceeding with the hospital network law, the government will take into account the effects of its records. But Kukiz15 will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u405	Modern Club, Mr Marek Ruciński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds. The debate on the project to improve the oncology package was very substantive. I am pleased that, ladies and gentlemen, when presenting their positions, they have drawn attention to the possible consequences of the changes made. One of the main charges There were provisions that would allow the consilium not to be called into force on the ongoing project that has been repeated. Therefore, I am surprised that during the work of the Seym, a record has been pushed over, which allows for skipping the consilium stage, the diagnosis of a patient who is suspected of having cancer. I would like to stress here the great importance of the consylium in the treatment of cancer patients and to address you directly: How would you feel if the decision on how you are being treated was taken in such a dramatic one-man situation, without, as has been the case so far, seeking an opinion, for example. Radiologists or radiotherapists? Would you feel properly treated? The amendments introduced by the Senate only delay the implementation of most of the good changes contained in this project at the time. Pending the best possible treatment conditions for patients, I will pay attention to the need to maintain the legal obligation to call a consilium until appropriate habits have been developed in oncology specialists. Therefore, I propose, at the time of the vacathio legis of the procedated law, which according to the amendment should last until 1 July, to develop a project enabling doctors to participate remotely in the consilium using accessible, widely used information systems. Modern technology will provide both convenience for doctors, who can use e.g. from electronic signatures, as well as the safety of patients who are not guaranteed by the current project. So-called. telemedicine is a natural stage of development in the healthcare system, and we should therefore support and promote its development, not base legislation on archaic methods of managing time and resources. If the government ensures that we are working on the proposed solutions, we are able to support the current project. However, I would like to stress that only a project with the changes proposed by us protects the interests of patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u407	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz made his statement in writing. Ms Margaret Zwierzan also made a statement in writing on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Poselsk Circle. Three members have entered the list of members of the vote... [[Four.]] Four, right? ...four people. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. Then I'm shutting her down. Please, Mr Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. Mr... [[They're talking to the MP.]] If you do not want, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I had the impression that the work in the Polish Senate would go towards these very substantive proposals that all parliamentary clubs submitted during the debate on the revision of the oncology package. What today was emphasized by all representatives, the attempt to exempt hospitals from the appointment of medical consilies is the biggest mistake in this amendment of the law. Consylia, as has been said many times here today, is the kind of gremia that could create a treatment plan for patients, especially in those centres where access to the highest quality medical services or diagnostics is limited. The abolition of these consilies will cause greater difficulties for patients, a greater problem of recovery and practically exempt some hospitals from calling consilies which, according to the designers of this change, are necessary. Reporting to the National Register Cancers will also cause a reluctance to report, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will also affect quality, because only control of cancer in the form of the National Cancer Register can improve this situation. Therefore, as was the suggestion made by Dr Ruciński's representative, if the applicants ensure that by July you will accept some attempt to amend this law, we are able to speak seriously about the amendments of the Senate that you have tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u409	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who appreciate the importance of this necessary law and, therefore, thank you to all those who look at it above divisions, give constructive proposals, just like those we have just heard about today - thank you - on each side, and I will be in favour of supporting it positively. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u411	Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I see that I must return to some of the elements that I had in my speech during the debate and which I have now left out. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this law is indeed very important, very much needed, and I thank Mr Zembala for this vote. On the other hand, I would also like to ask the Minister one thing. Is it not so, or is it not true, that it will only be in some selected situations, in particular situations there will be no consilium, and the standard will be that this consilium will be called together? Of course, telemedicine can also be used, as Mr Ruciński said, anything is possible. At the same time, it is important to emphasise the simplifications, the facilitations that are for patients and doctors, so that this therapeutic and therapeutic process can proceed more quickly, more efficiently. If we're talking about these consills in some specific cases, when they're not, it's only when we all know and we all know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as doctors and Members, we agree that there are situations where there is simply no point in using consilies. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u413	Thank you very much. And the last question is Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u414	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about DiLO cards. If they are to be in the electronic system, I would like to ask how the patient will have access to them at different stages of treatment in different places. Is there any way he can get a printout, some other card, some document that can help him get his own business done faster at different points? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u415	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u416	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the question of Mr Latos and here Mr Consillas, I would like to clarify that we do not eliminate the Consillas. Consilies are regulated in the so-called. a basket regulation, and we only assume the possibility that in certain areas of medicine type hematology You don't need a surgeon and doctors meeting other specialties. Therefore, we leave the consilla as mandatory, while the regulation wants to regulate those areas where there is no need for consilies, as is the case. just in the case of haematology, where a surgeon is not needed to detect cancer. However, there was a meeting with oncology consultants, all doctors in the field of oncology. The professors, the medical community, are supposed to tell us, because this possibility of disabling certain areas...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u417	Minister, unfortunately, I must stop you because I have to declare a recess and go to the Convention. If you don't mind, you'll finish your speech in ten minutes. So, thank you very much, I am sorry, unfortunately I must attend the Convention. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 56 hours 18 min 08]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 19 of the agenda. I ask the Minister to speak and continue to answer the questions asked. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I ended up with the fact that this change in consilies and quitting in certain areas from consilies was a proposal for an oncology environment. The oncology environment will propose a diagnosis by the end of March for which consilies can be abandoned, but, as I said, we do not give up consilies. As far as the DiLO card is concerned, it is a document attached to the medical records. If you want to have an insight into the DiLO penalty, you may have access to the DiLO card at any stage of the treatment process. The DiLO card in the documentation confirms that the patient requires a rapid oncology path. Therefore, this DiLO card is in the medical records. That's all. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Tomasz Latos, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u418	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to thank you for actually having a substantive discussion on this law. We didn't agree on everything, but we can't refuse that the discussion was really smart, if I can put it that way. I allow myself to thank, on my behalf and on behalf of the previous rapporteur, I believe, who is absent from this meeting of the Sejm, hence this change. I am thinking of Mr Pavlovicz. Thank you, and I'll see you in the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u419	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds, prints No 1326 and 1367. The project to which the Senate has tabled one amendment concerns the oncology package introduced for the previous coalition. In this case, we are dealing with a continuation of the policy of the former Minister of Health and it is good that it follows. The Senate amendment, which received a positive recommendation from the Health Committee, concerns Article. 4 Act amending and extending the period of vacathio legis for new regulations. This is an amendment of 1 March to 1 July 2017. There has been an incomprehensible situation from the point of view of the principles of correct legislation. The Sejm passed the bill on February 10th. By the way, it should be noted that the Polish People's Party also voted in favour of the draft amendment. However, the adoption of the Law on 10 February with the date of entry into force on 1 March raises serious doubts. It should be borne in mind that the law-making process is complex and cannot be made in a hurry without proper analysis of changes in the field of health that is so important from the point of view of each Pole. The majority left the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland 18 days to complete the legislative process. That's definitely not enough. The entry into force of the Act must be preceded by an adaptation of the existing health system. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of amending the Senate in accordance with the recommendation of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate after considering the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds to the Senate, modifying the regulation of the so-called. The oncology package proposed a single amendment. According to the senators, it is necessary to move from 1 March to 1 July this year. the date of entry into force of the solutions contained in the amendment so that they can be implemented in a comprehensive and sufficient manner in the current health system. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, without reservations about the arguments put forward by the Senators for the amendment and the amendment itself, will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u422	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws (Prints No 1330 and 1346). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to printing 1330 on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, I would like to say that the main works were, of course, concentrated in the work of the subcommittee. The Commission has adopted most of the recommendations and findings of the subcommittee. On the other hand, with regard to the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 3 March, it made only three amendments. Two amendments were actually legislative, it was a proper reference, i.e. not to provisions that have already been repealed. Following the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market, it was necessary to amend the Law of 16 November 2000 on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing and the relevant terminology. Amendment 3 concerned this issue. That is actually, you can say the whole problem: two purely technical amendments and one amendment related to the amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mrs Iwona Michalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the submitted government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. As a result of the changes made over the last several years in the rules on the functioning of the national capital market, the differences in the functioning of the stock market and the over-the-counter market have actually been overcome. The purpose of the bill is to abolish the unjustified division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market at present. Regulation will result in the inclusion of these types of markets in the same regulatory market concept. The consequences of the proposed changes are also the need to equip the supervisory authority with effective supervisory tools to ensure effective supervision of the safety and regularity of secondary trading of financial instruments, in particular in order to determine the scope of investments carried out by non-business entities in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which are parties to stock exchange transactions and which are not required under the regulations in force in Poland to record transactions concluded on derivatives on any accounts. The project also assumes that the interpretation doubts identified in the administrative procedures carried out so far for the authorisation of the stock exchange will be eliminated. As a consequence of the proposed amendments, the authorisation authority will become the Financial Supervision Authority. This authority will at the same time be competent to withdraw such authorisation and to prohibit the exercise of a regulated market. The draft assumes that the existing provisions will apply to the pending and unfinished proceedings concerning the application for authorisation. The Senate dealt with the Act of 10 February 2017 and introduced three amendments and the Finance Commission adopted it on 8 March. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the law on amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws together with the Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u426	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Grzegorz Długo, Kukiz.15. Therefore, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u427	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, prints No 991, 1192, 1330 and 1346. The amendment provides for three fundamental changes. The first concerns the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and over-the-counter market. Another is the introduction of regulations on the institution and the derivatives account. It involves obtaining new powers by the Financial Supervision Authority. The third change envisaged by the project's authors is the change of the authority issuing the authorisation to operate the regulated market. This amendment takes away the law of the Finance Minister and, at the same time, imposes an obligation on the Financial Supervision Authority. The Senate Resolution of 3 March 2017 introduces three amendments to the draft. The first one adds a point that the committee shall forward annually to the European Securities and Markets Authority information on cases of application in the previous calendar year of sanctions, with the exception of withdrawal of the authorisation to conduct brokerage activities. The second amendment also adds a point concerning who prevents or impedes the conduct of the acts referred to in the Act from being punishable by imprisonment, restriction of liberty or fine. The last amendment concerns the addition of an article to the draft law, according to which the concept of a company operating a regulated market is added to the Act of 16 November 2000 on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The Committee on Public Finance addressed the amendments introduced by the Senate yesterday and proposes that they be adopted. The Modern Club agrees with the amendments made by the Senate and with the position of the Committee on Public Finance. The amendments are more corrective and their implementation is necessary for the proper functioning of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u428	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and on certain other laws. The Senate has tabled three amendments to this proposal. In general, it can be said that they are of an ordering, legislative nature. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour, as recommended by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u430	Thank you very much. As regards the speeches on behalf of the Civic Platform and the Free and Solidarni wheels, these speeches were made in writing. No Member has signed up for the question. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u431	High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I present an opinion on the report of the committee on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The Senate has introduced three amendments into the text of the Act. Amendment 1 relates to Article. Point 1 of the 50th amendment proposing the repeal of the Article. 166 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. As a consequence of this amendment, the Senate amended Article. 169b paragraph. 1 containing a reference to the repealed Article. 166. Amendment 2 is, in turn, the result of the repeal, on the basis of Article. Point 25 of the preamble, Article. 37 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. The Senators accepted the amendment to the article. Paragraph 184. 1 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, which contained a reference to the repealed article. 37. Following the abolition of the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market, it was also necessary to amend the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act of 16 November 2000. 2 in point 1 in point (a) v uses the terminology used so far (amendment 3). The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club welcomes the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The three amendments proposed by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws do not change the original and main purpose of this amendment, which is to abolish the division of the regulated market into the stock market and the OTC market. The amendments introduced are only of a regular and complementary nature and therefore fully supported by the Free and Solidarnia wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u433	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. The Energy and Treasury Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law (Prints No 1328 and 1355). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of law, print No 1328. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 7 March 2017 the above draft resolution to the Legislative Commission for consideration. The Legislative Commission considered this proposal yesterday, i.e. on 8 March 2017. The Legislative Commission asks the High Sejm to accept all amendments of the Senate, i.e. amendments 1 to 9. The amendments mostly concern technical matters. As far as substantive issues are concerned, there has been a change in the location of the Secretaries of State. They will not be assigned to the Ministry of Justice. In addition, the resolution concerns limitation of claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u435	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u436	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the amendments of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law. High Izbo! Note what has so far been characteristic of the 8 years of government of PO-PSL, the theoretical state, which was largely based on philosophy. It is impossible for the Warsaw government to act effectively, in accordance with the law, and to prevent a reprivatization incident. And we are changing this philosophy of thinking about the institutions of the state. We believe that we will be able to give a chance to set up a verification committee, which will be an ideal complement to independent action by the judicial authorities on the issue of reprivatisation. In our opinion, the verification committee is an opportunity to solve many mysteries, ambiguities concerning the often passiveness of the Warsaw Town Hall, lack of action, passiveness by President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, which led to the rise of the reprivatization scandal. This is a law on special rules, because we are dealing with a particular issue, and I have the impression that Members who contest this law either do it in a naive way or do not want to explain the reprivatization scandal. These are special rules that are designed to stop theft and to stop the ineffective operation of the Warsaw City Hall. We're glad we're on the last line. I hope that today the Sejm will accept the Senate's amendments and we will be able to give an opportunity to work effectively on the part of the verification committee, which in our assessment will restore a fundamental sense of justice and restore confidence in the institutions of the state and the Warsaw government. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of all Senate amendments. These are editorial, legislative, substantive amendments, which are some improvements to the law adopted by the Sejm. I hope that Members over political divisions will decide to give a chance to work as a review committee [[♪ The bell ♪]] And explain the reprivatization scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u437	Thank you, sir. I would like to speak with Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would prefer that the Member who spoke before me say something about the amendments, instead of making his speech this evening, talk about some fairy tales and his desire, and here really is not the Chamber of Wishing, but the Chamber of Lawmaking. And the law must be good, clear and effective. Unfortunately, this law is not, because this law - even though you may wish to do well - will not serve to clarify irregularities or solve reprivatisation problems, because it will only aggravate confusion, because all decisions will go to administrative courts and administrative courts will have to take decisions again in these matters. It's important to us, too... These amendments you have made, of course, are a step in the right direction. We will support these amendments, because they are somehow cleaning up this law, but do not remove the fundamental doubts that we have said many times, that it is entering into the powers of the judiciary, that it will extend the decision-making process, that there will be refunds - rightly - that they will be paid compensation and redress, but that they will be paid from the budget of Warsaw and not from the budget of the Treasury. And remember one thing that really wanting isn't enough to make a good law. You may wish to do such stories in rallies, not in committees or in the Sejm, where good rules must be made, which will be understandable to everyone and later to the courts, because please remember that the courts will have to apply these rules later - first the committee and then the courts. And telling a story about great scandals is nothing compared to what you're doing, because one big affair will be the establishment of a bad law, and that is very harmful. For this reason, we believe that the project itself is bad and harmful, but these amendments are making it a bit simpler and we will therefore support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u439	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15, will speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the report of the Legislative Commission on the Senate's application for the Act on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates issued in violation of the law. Original print no. 1328. As a result of his legislative work, the Senate asked for nine amendments, and the amendments from 4 to 7 can actually be voted... are identical, so they can be voted en block. And the Legislative Commission decided at its meeting on 8 March to support the adoption of all these Senate amendments. These amendments, as has been said here, are, in principle, purely order, possibly minor verbal changes, while there are one or two amendments that also clarify this whole issue, which powers will be given to those on the committee, what the scope of the actions will be and how they will function. On the other hand, we maintain our opinion, which we have expressed here many times. These amendments do not change the essential element that we had reservations about, i.e. that this law, however, in some way, is quite important in breach of a certain legal order which is currently operating in Poland, and gives the new body, which is so far unknown on Polish grounds, the possibility to enter also those fields which were reserved for the judicial authority. It's not like it's here that the people who contest this bill or who point to her mistakes are those who are against punishing the guilty of this wild reprivatization or basically stealing, because it's hard to say here about reprivatization, or in some way they act infantile, or they don't know what they're saying. Ladies and gentlemen, in implementing this law, you are making a breach which will later result in you giving people hope, and the common courts of this hope, which you want to give them, will not divide, and may then be all those judgments or all these decisions of the committee touched. We don't want to agree to that, because we think these people have suffered enough already. This committee, if it's effective, I'm gonna applaud with all my heart, and I'm gonna be happy about it. On the other hand, I have great doubts as to whether it is established in accordance with the whole legal system. One more thing. As for the fact that the situation is exceptional, ladies and gentlemen, there are many exceptional situations, but does this mean that in any exceptional situation we will be able to violate the law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] change that law? If so, where is the limit of this kind of thing? We as a club will, of course, support the Senate's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u441	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Pudłowski will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u442	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have received nine amendments that actually put this law in order, but unfortunately they do not change its key elements in any way. It remains illegal and unconstitutional. Unfortunately, the only parliamentary analysis available to Members is very negative in relation to this project. As Mr Krajewski has just said, this matter needs clarification. This case is a huge drama of $40,000. Poles, and some even... Not only for those who have lost their homes but also for those who have lost their lives. There's a good chance that's how these cases were handled. Modern is the view that justice in this matter is necessary. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do justice with lawlessness. Lawlessness conquer, not a verification committee, which is a wild committee trying to uphold the law, denying it. We are trying very hard to help you by creating a draft committee of inquiry - it is ready and you can use it. Of course, it has no competence such as the verification committee you have proposed, and we are aware of that. But it's fixed in the law. I agree with my previous speaker, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, that we cannot support this. We go further: we cannot support the amendments that come from the Senate either. So how do you work on something that's illegal? Come to your senses. Do justice, but in a legal way. Lawless rule win. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Eugeniusz Krópotek, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There is no doubt that the amendments that we received from the Senate do not resolve our doubts, also of a constitutional nature, but we continue to uphold this statement, which I have already stated, that we are giving the green light to this law, because the scale of the problem is so huge that perhaps in a normal legal procedure it would not have been possible and perhaps even impossible to resolve this issue within a reasonable period of time. We certainly walk on the lines when we adopt this law, but we think it is worth risking and trying, and we will also support the amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u445	Mr Ireneusz's statement of profit from the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle was made in writing. Nobody signed up. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, prints No 1328 and 1355. The subject matter of this draft law is an extremely important problem from the point of view of the public interest and fundamental principles of justice related to the so-called. wild reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. The introduction of a special procedure for dealing with the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions issued in violation of the law, concerning Warsaw real estate, is in fact the only possible solution, taking into account many years of omissions and at least the silent consent of the Warsaw authorities, headed by the president of the city, regarding the shameful conduct of the so-called. wild reprivatisation. It is a real scandal that those with social trust, those who run the local government, who should be taking the utmost care of public affairs, the affairs of the local local government community, the public property, have allowed this property to be stolen. Stealing, otherwise it is impossible to name the mechanisms used in this operation, and the links of those involved are similar to the mafia structure. The method for curator or fictitious reactivation of companies could not exist without legal gaps, which apparently someone took care of. In addition, it should be noted that in Warsaw there was a good climate for wild reprivatization. Example of reprivatization of real estate at ul. Noakowskiego 16 in Warsaw was an incentive for others, including criminals who did not go back even before the murder of Mrs. Jolanta Brzeska. The Free and Solidarni Circle condemns the reprivatization carried out in this way. In this situation, given that the scale of fraud can be enormous, emergency action is needed. Such an action shall be the establishment of the verification commission referred to in the Act in question. We hope that the law, after its entry into force, will enable the settlement of the effects of wildlife reprivatisation and the repair of the damage caused. On 10 February 2017, the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted nine amendments at its meeting on 3 March 2017. These amendments include: for the purpose of systematic positioning of the Secretaries of State as members of the Verification Commission, determining the source of financing for the whole of the committee's activities, and eliminating editorial errors in the text of the Act. It is also worth noting amendment 9, according to which the Senate considered that the law should provide for the possibility to apply for the reopening of proceedings also in the event of the adoption and the validity of the decision of the committee declaring the adoption of a reprivatisation decision in breach of the law and indicating the circumstances for which that decision cannot be repealed. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle welcome and vote in favour of the amendments adopted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u447	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Individual Income Tax and the Tax Code (Prints No. 1331 and 1347). I ask Mr Marcin Porzucki to submit a report to the committee... Marcin Porzuck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Tax Code Act. After considering the law adopted by the Sejm, the Senate introduced two amendments to its text. The Commission recommends adopting both amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u449	Thank you, Mr Marcin Porzuck. We move on to the next part. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please take the floor of Mr Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Senate's amendments to the bill, which, as we have already discussed in this House several times, is intended to help several million taxpayers create a proper tax return by the tax authorities. In fact, there are two major amendments in the course of the Senate's work. The first is, in fact, that statements are only made available on the tax portal. There was a discrepancy there. This is the right amendment, the right technical amendment to this law. The second amendment was already in progress during this discussion. We had doubts about that. This is the issue of banks and cooperative savings and credit banks, the question of how these statements can be made free of charge through the IT systems of these institutions. The Senate proposed a return to this government idea, and the government presented additional justifications in this regard. Finally, there is a record here that we have requested that both banks and SKOKs should not be able to process this data. This is at this point a record that would get a statutory rank. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u451	Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform Club, absent. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15, also absent. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, also absent. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party, also absent. None of the Members have entered the query list. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern consistently proposes and supports simplification of procedures. We want a simple tax system, we want a functioning state for citizens. We are not, as some say, a total opposition - when we see solutions going in the right direction, we support them. In the case of this project from the beginning we said that facilitating the settlement of PIT is a good and long-awaited idea that the transfer of 1% the tax on public benefit organisations should be as simple as possible. Today, with the right to decide on 1% less than half of the taxpayers benefit from the tax. Ridiculous procedures make this right in the dead part. Thanks to the proposed changes, this can soon change. The citizens' right to bring real help where the greatest need is seen will come true. But we will also not stop following: it is not enough to make laws. Solutions must be thoughtful and well prepared, and haste is the worst advisor here. The Senate amendments correct errors that cannot be avoided at this rate of work. We hope that these solutions will now be effectively implemented. The Modern Club will vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of my club, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I declare that we accept the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Tax Code Act. And our position is in line with the report of the Committee on Public Finance, print No 1347. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u454	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining (Prints No 1364 and 1368). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the meeting of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, a discussion was held on the draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining brought to the session of the Sejm by a group of Members in print No 1364. The applicants justify the need to adopt a draft law in view of the need to allow for the completion necessary for the State's interest of restructuring operations in hard coal mining. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Act of 7 September 2007 will enable the disposal, in this case, of agricultural real estate by a mining company for the Treasury, a state legal person or a mining company. In addition, the project provides for the granting of mining leave rights to workers who, due to their age and the combined traineeship during the period of union selection in the union organisation, have no more than 4 years to acquire the right to a pension. Turning to the report, which has already been published in print No 1368, I would like to inform you that following the discussion and vote, the members of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury accepted two amendments from the applicant concerning paragraph. 2 and 3 8 (e) as amended 1. 1. In the committee's vote, however, the proposal for an amendment by the representative of the Poselski Club to delete the amendment 2 in Article was lost. 1. This is currently the subject of a minority request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u456	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Marek Suski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice about the parliamentary bill amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining, print no. 1364. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Malik, as rapporteur, discussed this project in detail. The project contains only three articles and two of them are relevant for a good cause. One will allow the transfer of property rights after the restructuring of mining companies, and the other is talking about the possibility of a certain transfer within the restructuring fund of payments to mining pensions, which will also enable the payment of mining pensions to trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen! The project is needed and is extremely urgent because without the adoption of this project, the payment to miners from a fund that has already been adopted and notified to the European Union will be at risk. I am talking about this because there have been doubts during the work, but the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has resolved these doubts as to whether we can accept this proposal in its entirety with the amendments already discussed. And I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that it is actually very simple, you need a bill, only that, as usual, at a record rate presented to us. Today at the hour. 10 was the proposal that we discuss this on the committee. The committee meeting was moved to an hour. 13. Of course, we agree that there are some important points that need to be met. However, I wanted to say one thing that this law, it would seem, innocently written, gives a completely different impression in the final record and not only - effects. It is incomprehensible why, if we have agricultural land in the mining site, the mining company, it could not have been deflected. It could also be done quickly, it would not have had other legal effects - it could be done and there would be no problem. Of course, it was clear that the idea was to create a bit of confusion, that it was like an industrial area, and that, as the President said, various other mineral waste is actually stored in these agricultural areas. This is against the law on the use of agricultural land. One more thing. In the second point, legislators point out that this is part of unagreed state aid, giving 4 years of mining leave to trade union activists. The Minister was also causing confusion here because he said that there were 2 million for this, and it turned out that there were 10,000. per person, and about 50 people are supposed to use this money for 4 years, so they don't have $2 million. That's 24 million or more. To be honest, I do not know where, in which company, holiday is paid in Poland, not free of charge, but a holiday which is due to the fact that someone is a unionist and that he is an activist. I think we're giving some kind of weird record that could make other companies argue for the same thing. After all, trade unionists from other companies will also insist on giving them four years before retirement and paying them for those four years. I believe that we are doing a breach in this case, which will result in far-reaching consequences for our budget. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that there was no discussion about why such violent movements were really being carried out, why we had to introduce them so quickly, there were different responses from the Minister, we were constantly threatened that this was needed immediately, because otherwise everything in these mines is simply collapsing, we believe that we cannot allow the procedure to take place either after midnight or 2 hours before the Sejm receives it. We believe that this is incorrect, and we should not allow for a situation that is beginning to be born as a widespread phenomenon. The legislators stressed that public aid could also be provided with a 20% reserve, but they also stressed that it would not be possible for the European Commission to express itself in this respect. Wouldn't it be better to hold off on such decisions and wait for the committee to take a stand? We have to come up with a proposal right now, which, as it may turn out, the committee won't accept because we're breaking into a group of unionists? I think it's incorrect. The Civic Platform will not support such a project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u460	Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining, print No. 1364. I would like to refer to this in short mining words. The point introducing the disposal of coal companies, namely Katowice Holding Węglowy and the Polish Górnicza Group, to the mining company by the mining company, mining plant or its designated part, which includes agricultural real estate, applies to the merger of coal companies, namely Katowice Holding Węglowy with Poland's Górnicza Group. Given the current legal conditions for agricultural land trading, this would hinder the merger process. This would result in the fact that the process of connecting KHW with PGG itself would be stopped and thus 13 thousand. people in the mining industry would be deprived of their livelihoods next month. That's why it's necessary. The agricultural lands that I've heard about. Why doesn't the government farm land that is owned by mining plants, why doesn't it? I have a question about why this hasn't been done in the last few years, not even a few decades. [[Applause]] 'Cause it's really a big deal right now. So much for agricultural land. Wastes alone - what has been raised here - are not waste, they are stone dumps due to the production process in which there are burning rocks, coal, sometimes even 15% . And then the so-called. waste, in other words: mining heaps, are often, so to speak, a reason for obtaining by the State or an undertaking having such a heap mined in its own territory, the recovery of hard coal, the recovery of burning rock, the recovery of construction under the territory of future roads for the construction of shafts, so whatever it is - it is not waste, it is just that, so to speak, a resource that can be used for the benefit of the Polish state in the future. That's what the Czech Republic does, and that's what Poland does. There are a lot of companies that make a lot of money out of this kind of business. Another thing that's been raised before. There is talk of unionists leaving at the expense of, you know, all taxpayers for a fair, independent pension according to some Members. There's one fact to be said. First of all, hard coal mining in Poland accounts for about 9 billion annually - from 7 to 9 billion annually - taxes, and this covers many years. For many years these taxes did not go back to mining, only they were simply used for other purposes by the rulers earlier. Whether right or wrong, I will not discuss this, but one point needs to be raised. First of all, mining unions are mainly miners who, after some stage of work, after 20 years, sometimes after twenty years, were given trust, a social mandate by their colleagues and were chosen to be a trade unionist, in other words, the social side that they represent, these few people, are located in the workplaces. The mine, which loses its production activity due to the transition to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, employs miners, and by necessity also representatives of miners, in other words: trade unionists. And these unionists at this point would be, so to speak, victims of the fact that they have undertaken to hold seats in the name of their colleagues to represent them in the industry. Here, the human side of this solution is, however, to treat these mining unions, who often defend the mining industry densely - and that is why they are still so strong at the moment - that they are not, so to speak, out of parentheses of all miners using mining clearances in connection with the transfer to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. It's about 55 people we're talking about. We were talking about 10,000. payments. That's not true. That's 10,000. gross, except that one thing has to be taken into account: this is 75% of the gross salary for a trade unionist who worked at the bottom of the mine - 75% Of 10,000. - for 4 years and also 75% , except for 3 years, in the case of a trade unionist representing the workers of mine processing plants. The final balance is not 24 million, but less than 20 million and with public aid measures for the restructuring of coal mining of PLN 7900 million, it is likely to be an acceptable margin to secure [[♪ The bell ♪]] the interests of these workers. The Kukiz Club15, in my opinion, supports the current project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u462	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will present the position of Modern about the bill amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another novel of this law, another amendment which is being made in the restructuring programme for coal mining. This time it is two small issues - seemingly small, but symptomatic, because they show how the government is working on this project, how there is no specific strategic thought here, how there is no concrete idea of how to carry out this process. Here, please, in the case of the first regulation on arable land, it has turned out that it is not possible to carry out restructuring, in particular this controversial idea of merging two mining companies, so that from one weaker and the other slightly better to create anything that in the future will have a chance for normal operation. It turns out that the law on the shaping of the agricultural system which Parliament adopted last year has caused such a situation that this connection will not be possible. This will be the case in many different sectors of the economy. This shows that our words, when we talked about the fact that restricting land trading is an attempt on fundamental property rights, the right to be owned by businesses, farmers, economic operators... It was a misunderstanding. So today you're trying to do it this way, a little bit around, sort it out. She - once again - will also appear in other situations, in other sectors, in other projects, whether restructuring or economic. The second issue, which is regulated here, concerns the leave of the miners, in fact, only union workers. If it was about the miners, we wouldn't have any doubts. She only deals with union activists. Moreover, the Minister of Energy present at the committee meeting was indeed unable to give the precise effects of this regulation. At the beginning he said that in his assessment it would amount to about PLN 2 million. We as the opposition counted it exactly: this amount is more than ten times higher. I hope that the Minister will add up to that 20 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to keep an eye on taxpayers' money. 20 million is not a very small amount, and this only applies - let me remind you - holidays for 50 people. As regards this point, the compatibility of this regulation with EU state aid rules was contested. Indeed, there can be very serious doubts as to whether this is in line with the notified programme notified to the European Commission. In our opinion, the risk is too great here. We have tabled a minority request in this regard. I hope that it will be supported, and only on this support are we making the entire bill's support conditional. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u464	Thank you very much. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u465	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Proceding mode over this bill - fatal. I am sorry that after yesterday, when I was able to praise the government and support the projects presented, today, I am going to say clearly, the way in which the solutions were conducted and the solutions presented are unacceptable. They're unacceptable because... The predecessors have already spoken here. How many hours was that? Yesterday there was a print, today three times the committee's session was moved, suddenly, in express mode... [[Let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Okay, it's not moving at all, sir, okay, but I found out 15 minutes before. Each of us has responsibilities, each of us works. He works, he has different committees, he follows things. I'm working too. There was no time to read it and examine it carefully. But, ladies and gentlemen, well, history is bowing down here. Draft Agricultural Land Protection Act, 14 November 2016. At the time, we made it clear that this law would limit economic activity. Nobody listened to that. You could listen to this, you could sometimes listen to the opposition, not the total opposition, but the normal opposition, which means well. This will reduce economic activity, make it more difficult. I'm already overlooking the fact that farmers are making life more difficult because they have virtually no influence on the marketing of their land. And today we face the fact that we have to change the bill in one day. And I ask myself, if a farmer wants to set up an economic activity on his own, what, shouldn't he also be included here? What if there's another landowner? Why are miners better than farmers? Why don't you explain it to me? Well, if we're gonna get the story straight, we should've done it comprehensively. You should have calmly examined the bill, given the time to do it right. How can you, how can you? Miners. And the farmers? The agricultural land, we are talking about agricultural land, sir. [[No, these are heaps.]] We have agricultural land. I'm talking about farmers who want to start a business. Yes? [[Except it's not the bill.]] What if it wasn't the bill? The protection of agricultural land. Mr President, you have introduced such rules. Ladies and gentlemen... [[This one's about restructuring mining.]] ...you can't proceed and make laws because this law is going to be very bad, very harmful, antagonistic. You're doing the wrong thing by introducing a project like this. If you wanted to, you should have done it sooner. Because yes: the government has prepared, in the committee it turned out that it is not known what is really going on, Members accept it, do not know what is in the bill, and such reflections. I'm not hiding that it's necessary. This is needed, but, Mr President, the method of proceding and such selective treatment... Why are we selective about this? Second thing, that money for restructuring. You can spend money on the left and on the right. We asked when this restructuring reserve was created, almost PLN 8 billion, for which this money will be earmarked. Then no one answered us. And now so slowly, we're slowly using these resources. The question should be asked how many more of these measures are left, how many more of them are left. And that's such a [[It was Jan Bury's mattress.]] Every now and then, we find out about a different amount. Every now and then we learn about a different amount, which varies by 1000%. 1000%. Mr President, we are talking about a specific law, we are talking about money, we are talking about 20 or 30 million PLN. You say it's a million. In particular, you have to answer. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will not support this proposal, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u466	Thank you very much. Two people were included in the list of Members. Is there anyone else? No? I'm closing the list. He begins with a question by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u467	I'm gonna ask the question, Marshal, Minister, because maybe I didn't exactly expose it in my speech. How many funds have already been used for this 8 billion PLN, less than 8 billion PLN, which we have spent on restructuring mines? And second question. How much really... Because all the time, when it comes to mining, it's wrapped in some kind of mystery, every time you ask about mining, there's a big mystery about how many resources. You have to restructure the mines, you have to spend money on it, but you have to tell people the truth. So I have a question: how much will the government budget cost to change this bill? Saying it's not budget money. That's budget money. There's no justification in the OSR for how much it's going to cost. He's not here. It's budget money. Saying it's a fund. It's from our budget, it's from our pockets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u468	Thank you very much. And Mr Marek Suski's second question, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no justification for these costs, because this cost law does not give rise. This is only a transfer within the already allocated budget for public aid, which has been accepted by the Union. I have a question for the Member, he is an applicant. How many years has agricultural land been used for mining? Has it been for decades, or has it been for the last eight years? Because this is where the Member alleged that if you want to move it, you have to land it. And since it bothers the Platform so much that on these agricultural land are stored at least stone from mines, I have a question about why you haven't done it in eight years. And I have a second question for the Member of the European Parliament about the transfer of 20% of these funds. whether this is permitted by the Union and whether the Minister has said that this amount will not exceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u470	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr. Michael Kurtyka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your questions and your speeches. I will address the questions and doubts raised during the discussion. Indeed, it is not possible to quickly deflect these land. We are dealing with agricultural property within the meaning of the Agricultural Land Protection Act, but unfortunately we are dealing with historical developments. Often these municipalities do not have current spatial planning plans. Recordings in land registers are often historical and therefore it is not possible to quickly carry out the retreat process. Meanwhile, the merger process of KHW and PGG is a dynamic process and should settle relatively quickly. One factor is a matter of time, the other - a question of feasibility. With regard to questions relating to the public aid granted, I would like to say that all the amendments under this law will take place within the framework of already notified public aid for mining, which also accepts mining leave. During the consultation with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, we have received confirmation that this is not illegal public aid and in no way requires us to change the existing notification. As regards the amounts - I answer Mr Kasprzak's question - it is indeed this law that entails costs related to salaries related to mining leave, and here the amount will certainly not exceed PLN 20 million, which in the scale of the programme does not raise any doubt that these amounts are in the already allocated amounts. We are not changing anything in the mining programme, only the number of PGG mines increases by four, as we have also informed the European Commission. We want to give a perspective to those mines that have the opportunity to make economic use of deposits. As it was said, indeed, the article on mining leave gives opportunities in some sense to compensate for the time spent to persons who were chosen to perform social functions, as a representation of the crew, only in a situation where a person decides to move with his branch or movement to the SRK. So this is treated rather in terms of compensation. With regard to the amount of quotas that have so far been spent in connection with the mining programme, this is a government of about PLN 2 billion. I would also like to point out that there is no interference in the economic turnover between private operators here. This law or this article on agricultural land only regulates turnover between entities of the State Treasury companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u472	Thank you very much. And a representative of the applicants, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question of when these agricultural land has been used by mining plants, mines, I will say: since its creation, i.e. since the 1970s. These things need to be organized today, for we are certainly dealing with situations that simply create enormous organizational problems. If today KHW is connected with PGG, there are administrative and organisational problems, so we try to clean these topics up to date. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u474	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I declare the meeting adjourned until 3 p.m. 7:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 08 h 19 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted an additional report on the draft Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. The application is printer 1365. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, also submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is 1366. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. Formal proposals have been made by Members. The first vote will be taken by Mr Ryszard Petru, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 formally request interruption, adjournment of the session [[Applause]] to the return of Prime Minister Beata Szydło from Brussels and to the resignation of the government. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] The scale of humiliation of the Polish government is dramatic. You're left without alliances. Even Kaczyński's closest ally... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Madera! To Madeira! To Madeira!]] [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're left without alliances. Even Mr. President's closest ally... [[Rysiek, was that your failure too?]] ...the president's closest ally Viktor Orbán left you alone. The only country that is satisfied with what Poland has done is Russia Putina. Because of its own complexes, [[Applause]] You wanted to block the Pole from the important position of the head of the European Council. There is a lot of speed in Europe before our eyes. Poles want to be among the leaders of Europe, and you turn on the reverse gear. It's a reverse gear. And this driving backwards will end with Polexit, which means you are moving Poland out of the Union. You lost 1:27. [[Applause]] We're without alliances right now. This is a no-hold-on ride. It was grotesque, embarrassment, humiliation of the Polish government. Finally, I would like to congratulate Donald Tusk on such a good result and I am glad that the Pole will have such an important position in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u476	It's a vote against. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński is against the vote. [[Moving in the hall, applause, ringing bell]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform get up, clap and chant: Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u477	Poland! Poland! [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform shows the sign "V" and clap and chant: Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk!]] [[Poland! Poland! Poland!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Back in the day... [[Moscow!]] ...a long time ago, but my generation... [[They're fairy tales.]] ...greatly remembers that, President de Gaulle used that term: the outside party. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] He said that about people who were stunned by the crazy and criminal idea... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Moscow! Moscow!]] ...but they believed in something. And you don't believe in anything... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Citizens' Platform chant: Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk!]] ...except for your business and your business. You are an outside party today, you are compromising Poland, you are against Poland, you are and you have always been. I'm against that conclusion. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, clap and chant: Poland! Poland! Poland!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform join the chanting: Poland! Poland! Poland!, they show the sign "V" and develop a scarf with the inscription: "Poland"]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u478	Thank you, sir. [[PiS traitors!]] [[A voice from the hall: You are a traitor!]] Another formal proposal is made by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u479	Thank you, Marshal. Yes, Poland today has an outstanding representative as President of the European Council. [[Touchdown, applause]] And that's why, marshal, based on art. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 please announce a break and convene the Convention of Seniors, to prepare formal congratulations from the Polish Parliament, the Polish Sejm for the long-term Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good!]] ...who was called for the second time... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform rise, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...as president of the most important body in the European Union. And since I'm afraid you may not announce this break, or this request will be made by a majority who doesn't accept this fact, which is unable to endure its failure... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[It's not easy, it's not easy.]] ...will not vote... On behalf of millions of Poles and also half of this House, I hereby congratulate... [[Yes, sir!]] ...a prominent Polish politician, a prominent European, Donald Tusk, in connection with today's historic decision of 27 Member States of the European Union entrusting the position of President of the Council once again to Donald Tusk. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: A good turn to your knees! Good turn on your knees! Good turn on your knees!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u480	Opposite motion, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Thank you, sir. The third formal application was submitted by Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two years ago, this whole House, including the President, congratulated Donald Tusk on taking the most important role in Europe. [[And it didn't work.]] I would like to congratulate the Polish Sejm today so that we can all together on behalf of the whole Poland to congratulate the Pole on taking up this honorable role. [[Voice from the hall: He is not a representative of Poland.]] A Pole who has the right to wear a white and red flag, just like you, Mr. Chairman, just like you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] A Pole who has defended the interests of Poland and the countries of our region for the last 2 years. The Polish Sejm should congratulate Donald Tusk on his choice and thank all European countries for their support. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But you are happy that he will not return to Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u482	Mr Ryszard Terlecki with the opposite proposal? [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] The motion against it, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2.5 years ago in this House, we applauded the Polish candidate for the role of President of the Council. During these two and a half years we have dealt with many activities that were contrary to the interests of Poland. [[How embarrassing are you?]] [[Lie!]] [[Room voice: 27 to 1.]] Today he was re-elected, but no longer with the voice of Poland. From now on, he is not a representative of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Our voice! Our voice! Our voice!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u484	The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15. [[Ad vocem I'd like.]] You can make a formal request. [[Is it okay to make a formal conclusion?]] It could be a formal conclusion. Formal proposal by Mr Grzegorz Schetyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! This is a big day for Poland. [[Applause]] We won, Mr. Kaczyński. Poland won. [[It's a big day for you.]] So don't embarrass yourselves because it's a shame. Marshal Terlecki, don't embarrass yourself. Poland won today, you lost, PiS lost. [[Yes, sir!]] And you have to live with it. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform rise, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[PiS on your knees!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Poland! Poland! Poland!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u486	Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. I take it it's a vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm gonna make the opposite of... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[But in what mode?]] [[Sit down!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Citizens' Platform chant: Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk!]] Mr. President, Mr. Marshal, congratulations. You won, but Poland lost. [[Applause]] [[Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u488	Actually, ladies and gentlemen, there have been two requests that I can count on formal applications, both for a break. We will hold a joint vote on the request for a break. [[Where's the Marshal of the Sejm?]] On behalf of the whole Sejm, I'm doing it. So I would like to inform you that there have been two formal requests for a break. I will put them to a total vote. [[Voice from the courtroom: Save the honor, Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 164 voted against - 257, with seven abstentions. The claims were rejected. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1304. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15. I'm setting the time for questioning... One minute is good enough for you? Enough, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Big emotions, big screams were just now. It is only a pity that these emotions are directly proportional to the divisions that you build in Poland. [[Applause]] That's a big problem because there were screams on both sides. [[27 to 1.]] Speaking specifically about this project, I would like to remind you, all of you in the Chamber, that the proposal to amend the CCPD. was a project that supported all parliamentary groups. So I hope that everyone will vote in favour of it and we will move on to normal, substantive work, not building our position only on emotions, sick emotions. Thank you. [[And divisions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u490	That wasn't a question, of course. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1304, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 434, 1 Member voted against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Individual Income Tax and the Tax Code. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. Both amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In the first amendment to Article. 45ca Senate proposes that the taxable person carry out the activities referred to in paragraph 45ca in the added paragraph. 6, through the tax portal. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 2 against - 435. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 45cb Senate in the added mouth. 2 and 4 introduce the possibility to submit applications through the IT systems of national banks and cooperative credit and savings banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u491	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This question is to make sure that the application of these provisions is appropriate, in line with the intention of the legislator, because the writing is very bad, but there was of course no time or opportunity as usual to change it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 we add an article. 16b to the Treasury Penal Code. This is, of course, a legislative error, as in the Criminal Code we consider to be guilty, we say: it does not commit a tax offence or a tax offence of a criminal offence if it cannot be attributed to him. It's an art. 1, and we say that he does not commit a crime, that is, he is not punished, the person who, as a result of misguided instruction, because of the wrong data, which was culpable by the office, failed to fill in the questionnaire. Therefore, it is not punishable by a person who has not committed a crime or offence. This is a bad record, a bad record, giving rise to interpretation that perhaps the legislator thought to treat [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those people are different. Therefore, for the sake of clarification, it must be stated that the court will not be able to find innocence in such a situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u492	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u493	It's an interpretation error, we just have to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u494	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u495	...that that wasn't the intention. The question is, was that the intention to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u496	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u497	...the taxpayer was considered innocent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u498	Thank you. Minister Leszek Skiba, Deputy Minister of Finance, will answer the Member's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This issue was discussed earlier, during the parliamentary work, during the work in the Sejm. Indeed, in the committee we discussed in such a way that this is a full analogy to the provisions of the other articles, i.e. the intention is indeed in line with what the Member was talking about. In general, it's about taking the opportunity to analyze the situation... To be clear: the taxpayer is not responsible for errors made by the tax office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u500	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 1 Member voted against - 433. This means that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1302-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Sejm at its meeting on 10 February this year. sent a draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie Voivodship to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The committees considered this project on February 21st. Then, yesterday, a second reading followed by a review of the amendments. High Seym! The joint committees request that amendments 1 to 10 be rejected and that amendment 11 be adopted. High Seym! I would like to stress that the government bill voted today in Parliament is a systemic legal solution for Silesian self-governments to improve the management of the area of a huge, although administratively distributed, agglomeration with more than 2 million inhabitants. I would like to stress the fact that the government's initiative by Prime Minister Beata Szydło is the subject of a broad consensus in the Silesian Voivodeship, which brings together local, academic and expert communities. The adoption by the High Sejm of the law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship will be significant, I do not hesitate to use this word, a historical event to measure not only this region. This project is a rational and expected response to the region's huge and specific problems. It is a good legal basis for shaping and decisively determining its future and, above all, it is an action for its reconstruction. I am sure, as rapporteur, that the community of cities forming the future metropolitan union will make good use of this historic opportunity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u502	There you go. As we have heard, the committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No. 1302. The committees present minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal, applicants propose that the title of the Act should be amended to read "Metropolitan Unions." This proposal brings together minority proposals from 2. to 8. We will vote on these proposals together. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 1. to 7. The question is raised by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In October 2015, the Sejm adopted the metropolitan union law. So why, instead of issuing regulations for this bill, did you prepare your own project after several months, which we delayed so expected in Silesia and so needed the creation of a metropolitan union? My second question: Why, in one of the provisions of this project, do you repeal this October 2015 law, which also deprives other agglomerations of the opportunity to benefit from the possibility of creating such a metropolitan union? Accept our minority proposals, not only Silesia, but also other Polish cities [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will have a chance to form such a relationship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u504	Member of the Committee's rapporteur? [[I don't know if the government...]] You'd like to speak, wouldn't you? There you go. Mr Jerzy Polakzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u505	I would like to answer the Member's question that the set of instruments contained in the metropolitan law in the Śląskie voivodship is mainly adapted to the particular urban and administrative situation of the entire Silesian conurbation, and therefore the expectation that these forms contained in the metropolitan union law adopted in the 2015 election campaign would serve in a coherent manner to other initiatives is a misunderstanding, because in the Śląskie voivodship we are dealing with a situation where there is no single central centre around which there are only smaller municipalities forming its facilities - it is a more extensive structure. By the way, I would like to remind you here that the representatives of the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk have announced the introduction of a bill on metropolitan unions 100 days after the elections, but in 2011. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u506	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 141, against 295. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment aims to reduce the minimum number of inhabitants who have to live in the metropolis from 2 million to 1 million. Even under Silesian conditions, it will be very difficult to reach 2 million inhabitants. This brings about two very serious problems in practice. The first will be the need to include cities in the metropolis that the authorities will not want to create together. The second threat is that, in order not to force cities into the metropolis, cities that are now on the outskirts of the agglomeration, cities that do not have common tasks and common goals in the centre of the metropolitan area will also be invited, and this will lead to a situation in which such an organism will in practice be very difficult to manage. The adoption of this amendment and the reduction of the population threshold from 2 million to 1 million will undoubtedly eliminate these threats and the metropolitan region in Silesia without any major problems under the proposed law. Therefore, I would like to ask the government whether the government intends to create a metropolis even by including in the metropolis those cities whose authorities will not want to belong to this metropolis. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u508	The Minister of Interior, Mariusz Błaszczak, will speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of 2 million inhabitants is not a random number. It is a number that occurs as a standard in Europe and in the world. [[That's not true! $500,000. It is.]] It is the criterion of 2 million that distinguishes the metropolis from other relationships. And as for Silesia, there is no problem. It is Silesia, these cities that will enter the metropolis that exceed the limit of 2 million inhabitants, so your concerns are completely unfounded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u510	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 200 Members voted against - 226, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendments 5 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is raised by Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u511	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Unfortunately, the government's draft law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship does not provide for the possibility of leaving the metropolitan area for those municipalities which take such a decision. It's so-called. One-way ticket. The amendments on which the High House is now leaning and on which it will vote will certainly allow the undecided municipalities, the authorities of these municipalities, among others. to my hometown of Jaworzno, convince the locals to enter this metropolis. I am asking Members of the Law and Justice here, especially from Silesia and the Zagłębia, whether they will support these amendments and make this metropolis possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u512	The question will be asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first is a request. If you want the Silesian metropolitan union to be formed, I suggest you vote in favour of this amendment... [[Don't tell me how to live my life.]] ...because in the light of what my previous speaker said, President Jaworzna also spoke about it, it will be difficult for you to collect dues and no way out of a 2 million-dollar relationship. Only 3% today. You exceed this number of inhabitants, and looking at the demography of Silesia, in a moment there will be no such number in these 25 municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! At the committee meeting, the minister compromised himself. When asked what you would do to get someone to leave the union, he said, "We're going to change the bill." That's not how you make the law. One question for Prime Minister Gowin. Did you hear Minister Błaszczak's speech? He said metropolises under 2 million wouldn't rise. After all, a few weeks ago in Krakow you announced that a law is also needed for the Krakow metropolis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that you, with a group of your own Members, will support the opposition proposal to form a metropolitan union in Krakow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u514	Mr Jerzy Polakzek, draftsman of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here I would like to dispel the doubts of Mr Małgorzata Mańki-Szulik on the canvas of yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee and make clear here the statement by Mrs Małgorzata Mańki-Szulik, President of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, and to the Vice-President Katowice, that there are already more than 2 million inhabitants who form the community of cities of the future metropolitan union, based on the consultations that have been conducted today. And, by the way, here, in particular, the first Member who asked the question, put in doubt the formula in which the metropolitan union itself is formed - I would like to make it clear that this is a systemic solution, which is preceded by a public consultation, that city councils are holding consultations on this issue, that they are adopting resolutions. President Katowice is an authorised representative to present a proposal to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation in this regard. By the way, we have adapted technical terms that provide a good basis for both the consultation and the establishment of a union in the state of organisation from 1 July 2017 and from 1 January 2018 to take over the whole scope. So, I'm asking you here on these issues that have been the subject of questions, colloquially speaking, not to doubt, because it's completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u516	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 5 to 7 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour, 202 against - 232. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The applicants propose to delete point 7. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question will be asked by Danuta Pietraszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 7 states that the proposal to establish a metropolitan union in Silesia will have to be accompanied by a revenue and expenditure plan for the future metropolitan area for the next 2 financial years. Question: "Why?" Does the government intend to control what kind of action the metropolitan area will take over these two years? The rule is incompatible with the applicable law because it grants the Council of Ministers the opportunity to control the purpose of the actions of the local government. Therefore, we propose to delete point 7. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u518	Thank you. Mr. Polack. That was a question for the government, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u519	Madame, this is a complete misunderstanding. Yesterday he explained it, among others. President Katowice, who is the organizer of the process of creating this metropolitan union under this law. The data you are talking about are estimates and have not questioned this provision, both the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, as an important participant and partner in the consultation process, as well as the President of the City of Katowice, who is responsible for the process of launching consultations and submitting an application through the Silesian Voivodeship to the President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u520	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 142 voted against - 235, with 59. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In amendments 8 and 9, Kukiz15 tries to add some added value in the form of extending the opportunities of the future metropolis to include sport, cultural and recreational activities. Here is my question to the rapporteur: What are the conclusions and arguments against such an amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u522	Question for Mr Polak. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This question was also asked by the Member of the Government yesterday, who commented on it. First of all, this is a new task that was not in the government's submission, which extends the scope of metropolitan tasks. The second point was that the purpose of this amendment was also questioned by representatives of local authorities, i.e. the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union and the President of the city of Katowice. So that I can say so much by commenting on the Member's question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u524	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 79 voted against - 355, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 16 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 47 votes against - 386 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 62. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u525	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This amendment concerns a very important article. 62. I congratulate the inhabitants of Silesia that they are gaining the chance to create a metropolis, but this article. 62 simultaneously deprives all other Poles of the chance for a better life, for better organisation of public transport, for organizing a metropolis. What are the worse ones - this is a question to Minister Błaszczak, to PiS Members who blocked the possibility of introducing amendments to this law during work in the committee - residents of Szczecin, the Tricity, Poznań, Warsaw, the Warsaw area, our family Legionov, the Krakow, Lublin and Wrocław agglomeration? What are they worse at? I understand that PiS MEPs, ministers crashed in limousines and are not interested in the fate of average Poles, but Poles take trams, take buses, drive trains and need better communication, and you take away this opportunity. They're gonna settle you at the municipal election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they'll settle you at the parliamentary elections. [[Don't get excited.]] We'll remember your names...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u526	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u527	...those who will vote against this amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u528	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u529	We'll remember that. [[Applause]] [[We'll remember your name.]] [[Way to go, Janek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u530	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 200 votes against - 236, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 63 applicants shall propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Consequently, in the 11th amendment to the article. 63 applicants propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication, I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Namely, whether it turns out that on the date of the entry into force of the Act the alienation of 100 thousand non-metropolitan towns will begin slowly - I am talking about Rybnik, Jastrzębie, Żorach, Raciborz, Bielsko-Biała, Częstochowa - at the expense of, so to speak, minimal and better... I wish the Katowice the best possible development, but will there not be such a threat as a result of this act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u532	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is obviously an amendment that simply shortens the vacathio legis to zero, it ceases to exist. Nonsense, nonsense, because there's no reason to suggest it. But this is an opportunity to remind Minister Błaszczak that if he is already referring to European standards today, which is quite symbolic today, it is worth knowing and it is worth learning that the standard and minimum threshold is 500,000. inhabitants, otherwise there would not be many European metropolises, but among others. in Poland there could not be a Tri-City, Krakow, not to mention Poznań or others. Anyway, we're planning on it, because you're planning it, too. Please learn, Minister, if you respond and inform the High House about European standards. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Andrew!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u534	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 12, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. But before that, the Members ask questions. Member Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we are voting on a historic act that will actually materialize in the middle of the year, and we will witness an uprising. really the first metropolis in Poland. And the question to the government side: Will there be political will to create more metropolises in Poland? There could be about seven-eight of these metropolises. It's not gonna be a two-million-dollar metropolis anymore, it's gonna be a million-dollar metropolis. The question is whether the government and parliamentary majority will have political will and will be open to such a metropolis to be established in Wielkopolska, Tricity and other regions of Poland. [[Warmia and Mazury.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u536	There you go. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u537	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regrets that you did not want to accept the good amendments that repaired this bill. You lost nearly a year and a half to create a metropolis in Silesia, you lost this country, copying only a bill, a good bill adopted in last term, and making bad amendments to it. It is unnecessary for you to cross over this law the universal solution for the whole of Poland. It was enough, my dear Minister, to issue regulations. If the Silesian Voivodeship had not passed 24 resolutions of the communal council on public consultation, a metropolis would have been in Silesia long ago. But this metropolis is so important to the inhabitants of Silesia that we hope that you will finally implement this law. Civic Platform Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] he will vote in favour of this bill, hoping that you will finally lead to what you have not been able to achieve for a year and a half. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: For 8 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u538	Thank you. It's for you... Another question, Madame, yes? Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't matter which party will file a bill that will pass this bill, because the Silesians have waited too long for it, in this term of office of one and a half years for you to copy, ladies and gentlemen, most of the provisions of the previous law. But we're happy. We are glad that this bill will be, the Silesians are happy about it, and we are waiting. We look forward to hearing about when in other parts of Poland metropolitan areas and other parts of the country will also be given a chance to develop, develop transport, services that will be performed over urban units only. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u540	There you go. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of Interior, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two metropolitan areas in Poland. This is Silesia, the Silesian conurbation, and this is the Warsaw metropolis. The project concerning the Warsaw Metropolis will be presented by the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Better not.]] [[Referendum.]] The other cities are agglomerations. In the agglomeration case, a bill will also be drawn up that will allow the agglomerations to function... [[Voice from the room: The system must be consistent.]] ...to support local authorities so that the development of Polish agglomerations can also take place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u542	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1302, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 432, against 1 Member, with 6 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm passed a law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1298. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1298, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted a resolution on honoring the memory of Professor Marian Raciborski on the 100th anniversary of his death. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1303. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1303, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. There were 409 votes against, 25 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the excise tax law. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Tax Order Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law, which you want to reject today at first reading, is the implementation of the 2012 TK judgment. The previous PO-PSL and PiS team did not prepare the execution of this judgment either, as you can see, there is no intention. We propose that you have 8 years to enforce taxes, but if it's not enough for the PiS, it means that you can't do Poland well for us. We know of cases where company controls lasted for many years, and yet companies were not charged. Such a situation, in which the company is controlled for several years, does not allow it to function normally. This needs to be clearly cut off. The victim of tax criminals is not only the Treasury, the victims of tax criminals are also ordinary citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] entrepreneurs who legally pay taxes. The State has a commitment to these entrepreneurs as well. It's a commitment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u544	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u545	...is speeding up control processes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u546	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thieves and tax frauds need to be chased, caught, and brought to light. The question is: Why do you and the PIS and the PO want only to chase, but not to catch? Finally, this draft law provides for the introduction of a period of effective limitation of tax obligations, on which there is doubt whether they have been correctly calculated or not. Today is the case that there is in fact no limitation period for tax obligations, because the State, on the basis of the rules, can extend this limitation period indefinitely. Moreover, the friendly Polish state can carry out tax checks indefinitely. The question is: In Poland today it is easy to start an economic activity, but why do you not want to make it also easy to run it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u548	Then who was the question to? I didn't understand who was the recipient of the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1247 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 226 Members voted against 209 and no one abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliament's Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016 supplemented on 18 April 2016 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patryk Jaki. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patrick Jaki. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patrick Jaki. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016 supplemented on 18 March 2016 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Patrick What kind of action as set out in this request would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. There were 176 Members voted against - 240, 14 Members abstained. [[Voices from the hall: Boo...]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Shame, Vaseline.]] [[Touchdown, applause]] I state that the Sejm, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Mr Patryk Jaki for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Robert Kropiwnicki of 7 March 2016, supplemented on 18 April 2016. We return to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1339-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u549	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development discussed today the amendments tabled to the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. The amendments were tabled by the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15. The Commission recommends rejecting all five amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u550	Please. I would remind you that the committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1339. In an additional report, the committees present amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose not to amend the law on collective redress. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the remaining amendments futile. We're going to ask questions. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Why do you want to amend the collective redress law when the law facilitates the recovery of claims? This is a law which, yes, regulates the recovery of claims, but it is so important, so extensive that it should be updated in a separate project, and not in one that is done by head, by mistake, quickly, also inaccurately, because we have tabled more of these amendments. The question is therefore: Why do you in this law also propose to amend the law on collective redress? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u552	Are you ready to answer the question, Minister? Minister Mariusz Haladyj, Deputy Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The enforcement of claims in group proceedings is about to speed up and facilitate the recovery of claims. This is also precisely due to the justification of the amendment: group proceedings facilitate and speed up the process of recovery of claims. [[Aren't you ashamed?]] So it's related to the purpose of this bill. [[Aren't you ashamed?]] As I said, in the justification for this amendment, Kukiz15 itself states that group proceedings improve the possibility of recovery of claims. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u554	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 37, against 397, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 2 to 5 were tabled in Article. 10 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on the recovery of claims in group proceedings. In the second amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 2 applicants propose to extend the scope of the Staff Cases Act in question. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that the Minister admits that the collective redress law makes it easier to pursue claims as a rule. Therefore, the question is: Why should we not add to the law on collective redress also labour claims if we are to amend this law in this draft law which we are proceeding today? After all, in Poland there are employers who employ more people, more than a few, such a number of people who justify the claim in group proceedings. Unfortunately, there are also employers who do not comply with the obligation to pay their employees' wages. This would make it very easy if, also under the collective redress law, employees could bring together claims owed to them by their employer. Therefore, the question to the Minister or the Member of the applicant: Why did the State not take such a change into account? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u556	Minister, Deputy Minister of Development Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Work cases, as we said in the subcommittee, are investigated in a separate procedure, which is simpler and makes it easier for employees. I will only say, for example, about a few: the employee may file a lawsuit or an oral appeal to the minutes; the proceedings are pending before a district court; the hearing takes place within 2 weeks of the application; there are no limitations on evidence; the court has the right to take account of other claims available to the employee, even those which are not the result of the lawsuit. Even if the application is made whether or not the employee withdraws his claims, the court has the right in his interest - although he has made such a request - if he considers that the application infringes the interests of the worker, the application for withdrawal of the claim shall not be accepted. Therefore, we will not make this easier for employees if we transfer them to the group redress procedure, because employee proceedings are much more convenient for employees. [[Aren't you ashamed?]] And a thing that is not a regulatory issue but also important: the sensitivity of labour courts to workers is greater than that of civil courts that deal with the broad catalogue of civil cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Aren't you ashamed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u558	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 167 voted against - 271, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 10 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 2 and do not add lips. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The following question. A certification decision shall first be issued in group proceedings, which shall mean that the court consents to group proceedings. But such a judgment can be challenged, which means that a group of persons applying for such proceedings may even be suspended, i.e. this procedure may be suspended by one or two years. We therefore propose that such a preliminary certification decision should not be challenged. If the court considers that group proceedings can be conducted, then let's just He's leading them. The question is: Why do you not want to accept the offer of the Kukiz club15? If the court decides that group proceedings can be conducted, then it should simply be carried out so that it is not so that later it will be possible to wrestle in court in the second instance, going to the Supreme Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u560	Only, sir, who are you referring to? To the rapporteur? [[Or to...]] Or - either. The minister's ready, right? Minister Mariusz Haladyj, Ministry of Development. [[Let's vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Just like we talked on the committee, I think the diagnosis is correct. Indeed, group action is taking too long today, but the solution of not being able to appeal will be too radical. We propose, in response to this problem, which you have also identified, firstly, that the Court of Second Instance should not be able to rule casatorily, so that it must settle the matter in substance, and secondly that this should take place in a secret meeting, not at a hearing, which saves months and sometimes years. In doing so, we propose a solution, which is not so radical, because a possible mistrial at first instance takes away, for example. applicants are entitled to claim rights in group proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Aren't you ashamed of the Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u562	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 36, against - 392, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 10a and Article 10a 10b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 29, against -401, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 1 applicants propose to amend their references. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 36 against - 297, with 94 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question will be raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. Minister, I am pleased that the Minister has admitted that, in fact, group proceedings are taking too long. Therefore, the question: Are you able to commit yourself to the Sejm, from this speaker, to say that in proceedings before the Senate you will support this change, which will actually make it possible to challenge this certification decision, but will not be conducted indefinitely, until the Supreme Court? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u564	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1339 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 405, 1 Member voted against, 30 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. We return to the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 Year of Care for Sobriety of the Nation. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1299. The question is raised by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I have no doubt that we are about to adopt a big, important resolution on the establishment of 2017 year of sobriety. I'd just like to point out... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Where are you going?]] Excuse me? Did it hurt? [[Voice from the hall: Look at you!]] You're asking me where I'm going? [[Member Sławomir Nitras shows a note bearing the inscription "27: 1]] You're asking me where I'm going? Are you asking me? Are you asking me? [[Applause]] [[But drugs, too?]] [[But how can we not ask you?]] You're asking me what I'm... Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is serious - the problem is serious. Since last year, in April last year, you blocked your bill as a PiS in the Parliamentary Committee... [[Voice from the hall: You're driving the freeway in reverse.]] ...by the Civic Platform at the request of Polish local governments. This project gave local governments the right to block 24-hour shops if citizens complain, impose penalties, if someone sells alcohol to minors, generally on all sellers who break the law. You promised then that you would prepare your own bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's not here tonight. Today's the anniversary. [[Voice from the room: you were 8 years old.]] For an anniversary instead of a bill, you're offering us a resolution to pray for sobriety.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u566	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u567	We are the Seym, we should be the law...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u568	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u569	...not to pray. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u570	We'll proceed with the vote. I would like to remind you that we are voting on a draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on increasing the concern for sobriety of the Nation. [[Did he understand his friend?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on increasing the concern for sobriety of the nation, in print no. 1299, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[It's not just about alcohol, it's about drugs.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The vote was 260, against - 39, with 108 abstentions. The Sejm has adopted a resolution on increasing the concern for the sobriety of the Nation. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Poznań Metropolitan Union. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, has sent this draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. [[Game in the O.R.]] The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question to the PiS club, the author of the motion to reject this project and the government. Are you aware of how many parliamentary opposition parties are living? The Act on the Sovereignty and the Chiefs lived 3 hours in this House: from first reading to rejection. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Yes, sir.]] This bill will live for six whole hours. Dear rulers, do you reserve a monopoly on changing local government in Poland? Are you denying us the right to talk about changing local government in Poland? I'll say it like that. [[You read the president's letters.]] Warsaw wanted to bring the case to a referendum. You've gagged it with the voivodeship's decision. [[Disgraceful!]] Do not gloat with your authority in a year of concern for the sobriety of the nation. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Don't read other people's correspondence.]] [[That's not the card, that's not the card you took.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u572	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. In the light of the repeal of the metropolitan union law of 2015 is it the only chance of the Poznań Metropolitan Union being established? And now I also have a question for the government. Mr. President! Your Lordship! [[Don't fool around.]] Please suggest to Minister Błaszczak that he refer the issue of metropolitan relations to the Minister of Development, because he does not know himself. [[Talk to your brother, will you?]] I would like to say to you: the strategy for responsible development adopted a month ago clearly describes what the agglomeration looks like. The agglomeration is a city and a municipality concentrated around large cities, where the population exceeds 200,000. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is described exactly between s. 90 and s. 120. The Minister was unprepared today when he talked about a 2 million-dollar agglomeration. [[Applause]] [[Not just today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u574	Thank you. Ms Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club, will speak on behalf of the applicants. [[Voices from the hall: To Madeira! To Madeira!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You will vote against this law at first reading. You know what's different from the Poles? [[Madeira!]] [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] The difference between you and Poles is that Poles love freedom and you hate freedom. Because it is this law that we give freedom to communities, freedom to choose whether they want to belong to a metropolitan union. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[How they behave, how rude!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u576	Quiet, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u577	You have shown your freedom by the Warsaw Act: by force, without consultation, and at the end you have cut off the possibility of holding a referendum in which the inhabitants could decide what the Warsaw Metropolis is going to look like. By rejecting the bill, you rob the Great Pole of PLN 140 million. What are you spending it on? [[Applause]] Do you think Prime Minister Szydło knows better how to spend this money? [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[At least he's not stealing.]] It's 140 million. It was the Great Poles who made the money. There's one more phenomenon I'm watching. I think you've been affected by schizophrenia. After all, our Poznań law is identical to that of Silesia. You're surprised. Who read it? Maybe hand up who read the Silesian and Poznań laws. They're twin-like. By rejecting this bill today, you are blocking the possibility of creating a metropolitan union for the public. You're talking about the definition of a metropolis. He must have 2 million inhabitants. What about metropolises that thrive in Europe, like Bologna, Helsinki, Hanover, Rotterdam? [[Madeira!]] These are cities of 500,000. residents. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The entire metropolis is one million inhabitants. I answer your question: yes, it is now the only chance for Poznan to have a metropolitan law. I look forward to your reflection and voting in favour of not rejecting this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[To Madeira!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u578	Gentlemen, please don't shout. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1196, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 228 votes against - 201 and three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. The Commission requests that the draft law contained in print No 1126 be rejected. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation for review, with a recommendation to consult the Health Committee. Members ask questions. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that by attacking Mrs Joanna Schmidt, you are giving yourselves an opinion, not the Member. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[She gave it to herself.]] I have a very simple question about this bill. Namely, I would like to ask you who wrote this law to you, because it was certainly not written by any of your fellow Members, as evidently demonstrated by the behaviour of the applicant, who... [[Sing, Minister.]] ...at the first meeting of the committee, he didn't even know its basic principles. Who wrote you this bill? Why did you, at the first meeting of the committee, like the lions, fight for this law, at the second, they were against this law and asked for its rejection, and now you are doing a 180-degree retreat again, and you want to work on it? I wanted to ask if it was before or after... [[It was a hit!]] ...a conversation between Prime Minister Morawiecki and the owners of the pharmacy networks... [[Voice from the hall: Who's behind this?]] ...in Poland, which was held outside Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Oh...]] The question is simple. Is this bill for lobbyists, for pharmaceutical wholesalers, perhaps for pharmacy networks? [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u580	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u581	Because it's certainly not for Polish patients. [[Bravo!]] [[For the canvass.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u582	Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Citizens need a pharmacy for a patient, while you have been subject to a law: a pharmacy for a wholesaler and a pharmaceutical company. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Bravo!]] I would like to ask the applicant whether he knows in whose interest this bill was written and by whom it was planted. I don't know. I have documents in this briefcase, [[Joy in the Chamber]] evidence of this, about the links of a given company, a huge group of interests, pharmaceutical wholesalers, multi-billion-dollar turnovers, with a huge market position - more than 30% in the drug trade... [[Yes, sir.]] ...about this group's financial ties to those lobbying for this bill. Therefore, I will submit a proposal, I will apply to the relevant services, to the CBA [[♪ The bell ♪]] to examine whether they were not used during the process of this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u584	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u585	... lobbyist methods [[Applause]] not provided for in the lobbying bill. Thank you very much. [[Bravo, bravo!]] [[Support is dropping.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u586	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without a doubt, my previous speaker described these actions well. You have already used us, Members of the Law and Justice, to see projects prepared by the government and later presented as parliamentary projects. Unfortunately, most of the time you're ruining these projects and they're useless. But this is the first case that you are carrying out here a bill that is prepared not in the government, but in an institution that cares about these solutions. This is unacceptable. [[Horrible.]] Mr. President, a few days ago you said that the law on tree cutting smells like lobbying. And this is lobbying squared. [[You have a bad smell.]] Today, at this meeting, I actually presented the information from a very right-wing weekly, really not from the Wyborcza Gazeta, which clearly shows the scenes of the proceedings over this law. And she's on the deregulation committee? She should go straight to CBA. Thank you. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u588	Thank you. Member Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this matter should be examined, I say in the context of the statement... [[Let's test it!]] [[Check it out. You've got the tools.]] ...missary, Members, but this lobbying unfortunately looks completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that for 12 years, as I am in this House, I have not met with such extraordinary speeches as at this moment. [[Because it hasn't happened yet.]] [[Shut up!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill freezes the situation that is currently in place. This bill freezes the situation that is at the moment, and this bill is very unfavorable to the pharmacies networks. And that's the fact. [[Patients.]] Perhaps you should look at this matter, not here... [[And who did Mr Buda get this bill from?]] ...do not perform strange... [[Shut up! Radziszewska, quiet!]] ...a rhetoricist, strange rhetorical forms and statements about everything that's going on. [[Mr President, look in the mirror in the morning.]] Who is behind your statements? This should be examined. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u590	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, as far as this pharmaceutical law project is concerned, we are actually dealing with the interbreeding of gigantic interests, and it is business at different levels, because on the one hand we have pharmacy networks, and on the other hand we have wholesalers which... [[Israel, Canada.]] ...delivering to these apothecary networks, and we have a powerful, powerful lobbying, including foreign lobbying. I have a question in this context about the visit of Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and the question of the pressures that Israel, Canada and other foreign governments would have on him to have their interests in this matter. Or will the Members of the applicant have a way of reacting to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u592	Thank you very much. All the Members who put themselves to the questions have spoken. The representative of the applicants shall be Mr Waldemar Buda. I ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Mr, shame, just shame.]] What a hypocrite you must be, Mr. Meysztowicz, to accuse anyone of lobbying in a situation where you are walking hand in hand with huge networks that have been... [[But about, about.]] ...years don't pay a penny of tax, big people who lobby, come to the office and say it's you who guarantees that this bill doesn't go through. [[Lie!]] And who are we defending? Look at the two sides of the argument. We're talking small, little, poor, diving today... [[You're destroying a Polish entrepreneur.]] ...pharmaceutons who can't do their own business, and the state defends corporations, big entities. [[Who are these fairy tales for, sir, who are these fairy tales for?]] This is hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen! Maintaining the state we have today is to tolerate pathology. It's today that there's an uncontrolled drug export, and today we have regulations... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...anti-concentrationals that don't work. Today, 1,500 pharmacies work, exceeding the current regulations. No one can react to that. [[Well, close it. Where are you? Why the UOKiK?]] It is today that there is unfair competition, where in front of the pharmacy, which has been operating for 30 years, opens three more, others, with dumped prices, just to close... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The state has tools.]] ...just to close this little pharmacy. I'm sure it won't be cheap later. Ladies and gentlemen! We've already lost to lobbying once. [[But stop lying!]] [[Shut up!]] [[Mrs Pavłowicz, you are acting.]] I will remind you that in 2001 similar rules were already introduced, but during vacathio legis lobbying won. Lobbing won, these laws were repealed, they didn't come into force. Today, you want to do the same. The Germans could have introduced such regulations, the French could have, the Italians could have. It's all working. [[Because there's lobbying and corruption.]] We can't. Poland may be less. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to vote against this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How can you imitate Germans?]] [[Who wrote the bill, Mr Bud? Who wrote the bill? You didn't answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u594	Jerzy Meysztowicz shall be reported as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is hypocrisy, what you're saying, because you're actually acting against small family drugstores. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] You act against small networks that have four, five, seven pharmacies. I'll tell you why. The problem isn't in 15 grand. pharmacies and not that 94% These are Polish companies... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...it's just that there are three wholesale operators. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] One of these wholesale operators is interested in making the largest fragmentation of pharmacies in Poland so that pharmacies do not connect to small networks. [[Applause]] Why? Because they are in a much worse negotiating position in terms of prices. There was no discussion in the committee about the availability of medicines, cheaper medicines. Because if these little drugstores are on the strip of this big network that ties them with a buyer loan that ties them with a loyalty program, then these drugstores will never get good prices for buying. And indeed then those networks that function will be in a privileged position. So you're working against these little companies. And do not be so hypocritical. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u596	I would ask, sir, that this proposal, so to speak, i.e. This correction was more of a correction. The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request on behalf of Kukiz15 for a break during which Members will be able to familiarise themselves with the data and documents that have been invoked here, which may indicate that behind this law, lobbying is behind this solution, there are companies that will benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen! We're making a very important decision. Let's not make that mistake that was made in the case of the gambling bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u598	There's a request for a recess, so before we vote... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But on behalf of the club.]] Request for a recess. [[But for the club!]] I'm gonna vote for a recess. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 199 votes against - 226 and 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Corrected yet.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the committee's motion to reject the draft law contained in print No 1126, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[But the motion for correction was!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 174 voted against - 242, 10 Members abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm rejected the application and therefore rejected it in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation for re-examination with a recommendation to consult the Health Committee. We return to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1354. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 1354, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 411 against - 6, with seven abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaiming of Independence of the Republic of Poland presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (prints 1093, 1272 and 1272-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After discussion, the Commission proposes to reject the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, to reject Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 6 and to accept Amendments 4 and 5. It is worth noting that the bill was supported by almost all members of the committee. The discussion took place, you can say, at such a very diplomatic and cultural rate, which is worth highlighting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u600	Please. I would like to remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No. 1272. In an additional report, the committee makes a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 12 votes against - 419, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose that the title of the Act should be read by the Committee of the National Covers of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recovery by the Republic of Poland. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 194 against - 237. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment of the applicant by adding point 5 in Article. 2 (2) 3 propose that the Committee, upon completion of its tasks, adopt a report on the Committee's activities. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 398 voted against - 35, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment by adding an article. 5a The applicant shall propose a provision concerning the membership of a committee of representatives of a political party or group. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - 30, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment of the applicant by adding Article. 12a propose that the fathers of independence recognize: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Wincent Witos, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Wojciech Korfantego. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For us it is obvious that Polish independence was created by many people, many groups, many political thoughts. They were: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Vincenty Witos, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Paderewski. If we want to celebrate this beautiful holiday next year, we should also distinguish these great characters. It should not be that, in justification, we see our history narrowly, just narrowing it down to one character. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u602	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 291 against 141. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Earlier, Members ask questions. Member Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to ask the question whether the President will agree to our request that it be as civic as possible, so that we do not share more Poles, because we know very well that today this Polish-Polish war is heated very strongly over the Vistula Vistula. And I would also like to appeal to some Members, because during previous readings I have heard such opinions that they will be different, such authoritarian celebrations, organised by the PiS state. Ladies and gentlemen, I have reviewed the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which you do not want to change so much, and in this constitution, our country is called the Polish Commonwealth, not the PIS. So that I ask very much that we do not call our country that and that we support this proposal so that our celebrations are common, bottom-up and as civic as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u604	Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u605	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence is undoubtedly our biggest national holiday. We, as Modern, want to celebrate this holiday together with you. It seems to us that the proposed formula is too baroque, and the celebrations are too long, but we want to be together. At times like today, however, it is worth asking ourselves whether Poland does not need a strong or strong person in the position of president who would think for herself... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...who would guard the Poles, all of us, because, ladies and gentlemen, independence was won by Poles, all Poles, not one block. Or from one district. Just as we're sitting here, notice how divided we are today and how much we need a president who will be an authority for all of us... [[Get to the point.]] ...who will guard Poland, especially Poland. [[Applause]] [[We've got one.]] Always, every day and every hour, not every 100 years. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u606	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project raises concerns about the idea itself. It's just that the celebrations aren't organized by law. That's what public institutions are for, to use their resources, to use their capabilities to organize these celebrations. Really, you don't need a special act for that. In my opinion, this is an over-inflatable form over the content. I hope that this special act will not make these celebrations, which in recent years have raised national environments to a special rank, because it was thanks to the march of independence on 11 November every year that this holiday really came back as an issue, as something important... On 11 November, I hope so, it will not be celebrated in 2018 as a cotillion feast, but we will actually consider what sovereignty is and what is threatening it in this day and age. [[Get off the podium!]] And that it wouldn't just be historical, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's kind of a commemorative celebration. That's what I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u608	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u609	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, thanks to Mr Khrushch for the amendment, for seeing other people who were fathers of Polish independence. I thank the House for adopting this amendment. [[Applause]] Secondly, thanks to Paweł Pudłowski for saying that we are looking for common denominators, that we are looking for a national community. It was President Duda who promised us in the election campaign, unfortunately, to this day it is not realized. It is a pity that today we did not take the opportunity to be proud of the choice of a Pole as head of the European Council in the national community. [[Applause]] We didn't. You didn't take it, but you still have a chance. A question for the marshal. Will you be able to present and propose to the High House by the anniversary of regaining independence [[♪ The bell ♪]] discussing the bill to wipe out the disgraceful sentence of the Brest court of Vincent Witos and other Polish heroes? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: It is true.]] If that doesn't happen, your costumes in the folk costume will once again prove false. You wanted to name yourselves folks, and you're not able to rehabilitate with us, true folks, Vincent Witos. [[You've been in charge for eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u610	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u611	It's not right. [[Applause]] [[Lefty.]] [[You could've done it for eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u612	Thank you, sir. I'll answer that question on time, following proper procedure. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1272, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 434 votes against, 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm passed the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Patent Advocates. In the first amendment to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes an editorial change. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 2, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. He voted 1, against - 436. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes legislative changes. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 3rd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 July 2017. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Four votes against - 330, 104 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1. to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 6 The Senate proposes to delete the words to Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 2. to Article. 76 (2) (a) (ii) and the Senate proposes a different text of the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 4 to 7. The Senate proposes inter alia. amendments to the date of entry into force of the law. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 4 to 7 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We would like to return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Road Transport Monitoring System. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The new wording of point 7 proposes that the definition of the consignor be clarified. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Nobody voted against 409, 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes among others. exclusion from the monitoring system of goods less than 500 kg or 500 l in volume. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted against, no 403, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 5 The Senate proposes to specify the necessary data to be included in the document confirming the inter-stock transfer. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 1 Member voted against - 407, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 7 In the introduction to the calculation, the Senate proposes to replace the word with the word used. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes a legislative amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments of Senate 4 and 5 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Nobody voted against - 406, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 20 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. No one voted against - 405, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and 6 The Senate proposes to clarify the maximum fees for removal, storage and guarding of means of transport or goods. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 374 Members voted against - 34, 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[He turned it down.]] Sorry, yeah. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes to clarify the rules of administrative responsibility by adding the words "or ex officio" to the Senate. This amendment is linked to the 9th Senate amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments of Senate 8 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. One Member voted against - 406, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218 Members. One Member voted against - 408, 26 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 39 The Senate proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the rules on administrative penalties and fines. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th Senate amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Two Members voted against - 401, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. In the first amendment to Article. 169b paragraph. The 1st Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 184. The 1st Senate proposes a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes that in the amending act add an article containing an amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 3rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of the law. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Senate proposes that the members of the committee referred to in this provision should have the rank of Secretary of State - and not as adopted by the Senate - of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u613	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You know our position on the whole of this proposal. We are in favour of bringing justice to all those who deserve it. 40,000. Those who have lost their homes must do so, but we believe that your project is unconstitutional and illegal, because despite the fact that this amendment is actually good, we will not vote for it. [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, it's a difficult choice if something's right, but it's a bad case at all. I have an appeal to all those of you for whom what you have in your name is not just a trivial slogan. For those whose law and justice mean something. Lawlessness, ladies and gentlemen, the right to win. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u614	I'd ask you to ask questions, not appeal at this point. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 32 Members voted against - 407, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The Senate in the new wording of paragraph 1. 5 proposes that the members of the committee in the performance of their duties as Secretaries of State carry out tasks solely related to the exercise of their duties in committee. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 29 votes against - 408, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes that the full funding of the committee should come from part of the state budget: Justice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 29 against 405, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 4 to 7. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 4 to 7 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 28 Members voted against - 407, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 35 The Senate proposes that the limitation period for the claims referred to in that provision should also apply to claims arising from the decision of the committee declaring a reprivatisation decision in breach of the law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 30 votes against - 407, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) 1 The Senate proposes that also the decision of the committee declaring the reprivatisation decision in breach of the law should be the basis for reopening proceedings for payment of compensation or for payment of remuneration. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 30 Members voted against - 404, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. That concludes the Senate resolution. We are returning to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1368. The Commission is also presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. In the minority proposal to Article. 11b of the amended law, the applicant proposes to maintain the wording of paragraph 11b. 1. The question is asked by Members. Member Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At this point in the minority request, a benefit is introduced for the group of trade union activists, for 50 trade union activists. This benefit raises serious doubts about the rules on state aid, it may jeopardise the functioning of the entire restructuring programme for coal mining. It is irresponsible for us to compromise, acting in the interest of a narrow group of people, the entire restructuring programme. As the Minister of Energy stated at today's meeting, this point does not affect the effectiveness of the connection between Katowice Holding and the Polish Mining Group, this task can be accomplished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we spend a public penny, we should watch it many times, we should watch it many times. Here we spend 20 million in the interest of a narrow group of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u616	Thank you. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that 4-year mining leave will apply to trade union workers and will be paid, as the Minister said, in the amount of about 10,000. For a month? What is the final amount to be paid to these unionists? How many of them will receive these payments because there have been different amounts thrown here, and there have also been different numbers of these unionists? Is this public aid that the government will have to agree with the European Commission? Why does PiS want to buy the support of mining unions as part of the mine restructuring? This cover fund was supposed to serve underground miners, not these union workers. And one more thing. Congratulations to Mr Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, for an effective fight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u618	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have one question, one specific question: aren't all these union workers miners with a social mandate, who have often worked for several decades? [[Applause]] Don't they just have the same mandate as all the Members in this House? That's the question. And the other thing. Is it social justice if the mining plant is liquidated and are entitled miners to move to the Mining Restructuring Company, who are less than 4 years old to retirement? Is it fair that miners appointed by them to represent the interests of the mining industry should be victimized in connection with the transition to the Mining Restructuring Company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u620	Please. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] Minister Tchórzewski is sitting in the Parliamentary bench. The rapporteur is Ms Ewa Malik, Mr Matusiak, on behalf of the applicants. Will someone speak? [[Voices from the Chamber: We vote.]] Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 162 voted against - 257, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Questions are submitted to the entire bill. Member Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill, which we are currently investigating, begins with the adoption of a bad law on earth trading, which we have passed here. Today, mines cannot pass land to each other, there can be no restructuring. So the question is, why, Your Majesty, make such a bill? We warned that this would reduce freedom of business. I address His Majesty. This will limit the freedom to exchange agricultural land. Your Majesty, I come to your country, to your country. [[Applause]] That's why I have a question. In this situation, when you can see the negative effects of this law, you would not need to look at the problem more widely and to cover the wider group. [[♪ The bell ♪]] are engaged in economic activities and, above all, farmers, because it was the law that struck them? They can't... Your Majesty, are you going to do something about this bill? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I address His Majesty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u622	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u623	I have a question: shouldn't you be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u624	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u625	...liberalize this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u626	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u627	Because you can see that the effects are very negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u628	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u629	Yes, sir? [[How's Janek Bure?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u630	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Yes, Your Majesty, a nation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a question of mining resources, which include agricultural property. These aren't grains, they're piles of flaming rock. Unfortunately, long-term omissions have not retrained this land from agricultural to industrial. It's not just about previous governments, it's about decades. If this regulation is not adopted, it will be practically impossible to connect the Polish Mining Group with Katowice Holding Węglowy, which will directly affect the lack of payment of miners. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And is it true that what I said has a direct impact... [[It's the truth.]] [[No, it's not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u632	I think we're clear. Yeah, I get it. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1368 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There have been 5 abstentions in favour, 261 against - 167. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (print No. 1249) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. And here's the question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, raises the question to this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill prepared by the Modern Club, which he wanted to help entrepreneurs. We believe that all activities which aim to facilitate the functioning of Polish companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, are important. Why doesn't the PiS state want to free the activity, the initiative of Poles, against the promises of Prime Minister Morawiecki? [[Voice from the room: Didn't you just hear that there isn't a Mr. and Mrs. PiS?]] This is the kind of activity that limits their ability to develop. Why do you not want to relieve Polish entrepreneurs, you do not want us to be able to reduce their tax burden together when it comes to the PIT rate, from 19% to 15% ? Studies show that such a reduction in tax often increases revenue to the budget. But you don't think there's anything like that at all that you know best about everything, that you're the smartest. Fortunately, today you showed that not in every area, because the result of 27: 1 indicates that you should learn a little. [[Applause]] I have one last question. Why... [[Don't ask that question anymore.]] But louder, Member, because you can't hear. [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u634	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u635	Even louder. [[Don't ask that question anymore.]] I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u636	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u637	Louder, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u638	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u639	Ladies and gentlemen, why Poles actively paying... [[Voices from the hall: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u640	Thank you very much, sir. We're coming...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u641	...taxes, pay the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u642	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u643	...for your election promises? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u644	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 1249, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 229 against - 204. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (print No 1365). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1365, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 404 against - 4, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1366). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on these proposals? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1366, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 4, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you would like to join us, go ahead. Isn't anybody checking in? That's it, that's it. I'll close the list in a minute. I'm running a two-minute break right now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min 49 hours 21 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed to the Members' statements. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Please, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. Mr Dariusz Bąk, the club... Mr Kurzepa is, isn't he? You're welcome. Madam, you must wait your turn. I've already read you, I've come to see Mr Jack Kurzepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u645	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here's another statement from me. In recent days, when holding a parliamentary mandate, I had the opportunity to visit the Police School in Katowice with the Board of Administration and Internal Affairs. I'd like to share a few impressions from this visit with you. I realize that many of you are seeing police work through a prism of greater or less annoyance about it, a quote that they're clinging to me, that I'm driving too fast, that I'm passing through a red light road or I'm drinking a beer under a cloud. I don't hide the fact that I also get this kind of annoyance sometimes and I forget or ignore the fact that police activity is justified by our transgressions and violations of the law. During my visit to the Police School in Katowice, I humbled and perhaps learned to see aspects of the service that are fundamental and worth talking about. First of all, training, training, training. No officer will go public until he is properly and substantively prepared, trained. So I had the opportunity to look at high-specialist road safety training. For example, an intriguing visit to the Gliwice Highway Police Station - not only has it raised respect for me, but also fear, respect for the equipment and efficiency of the highway traffic police, and fear that since they are so well equipped, I also have no chance of avoiding the consequences when I am guilty. Another episode is that I took part in a medical emergency training and exam, both with first aid and with the protection of victims of crime and accidents. It is not easy to go to an event and find a victim stabbed in the neck with a knife or a victim of an accident with cruelly injured limbs. It happens that you're only there with your partner in the service. Everyone else is either gone or staring or filming with their smartphones, and you have to act, make the right decision, make the right decision to save a man. We don't think much of it. We're excluding police officers from the field, but you just, officers, need to take this into account, act and save. There are many aspects to your professionalism and expertise. I express my gratitude to the training staff, officers, lecturers in all police schools and units of the Polish Police for your efforts to train and properly prepare officers for the service. Secondly, the ethos of the pro-state service in the Police and its cultivation and respect for the wonderful history of the State Police of the Second Republic together with the Gehenna and tragic death of hundreds of police officers murdered by German fascists as well as by the Soviets in Katyn, Miednoje, Bykownia or exported to remote Siberia. Given this aspect of the sensitivity of officers to the ethos of service and identity with uniform and formation, we must take into account the sufficient concern of the institutions of the state about them and about them. Such a concentration of efforts, both in the state as such and in local governments, to ensure that this common good, which is the Polish State Police, operates under the best conditions, is necessary and expected. On behalf of dozens of police officers, that's what I'm asking. At the same time, I express my gratitude and appreciation for what you are doing, the quality of your service, hoping that respect for the state expressed by citizens will be transferred to the police formation, which is one of the elements of the emanation of dignity and efficiency of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u646	Barbara Dziuk, please. Read it quickly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u647	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! February 23rd this year A letter came to my parliamentary office in Tarnowskie Góry with information. We read in it, among others.: In connection with the adoption of the Pension Retirement Act, we have decided to take action that may stop the urges of Members and Senators of the PiS. We have about 300 families of parliamentarians of Law and Justice to choose from. You can't protect everyone. This threat also came to the elected Members' Offices and the case is very serious. The authors of the letter clearly and clearly indicate what they will do and why they will do so. I stress, this is not a threat from a young politician or a political pensioner. This is information that should reach us all and cause a defensive reaction. Each of us has to look twice before it moves forward. There is a situation that requires our special vigilance, police vigilance and other services called upon to keep order. So far, no one has been hurt, but it must be made clear and clear that our families are at risk and our children are at risk. None of us or of our families has happened since February 23rd, but any accident resulting from an unfortunate coincidence and responsibility will be attributed to the authors of the letter directing the quoted letter to the address of the offices. After a few days, another letter of threats arrived, the next one, where it is emphasized, is articled that you will kill me. Encouraging hatred, calling for boycotting of the authorities in Warsaw, using very bad symbols, looking historically, from the period of World War II, should be punished, all the more so because Polish law clearly and explicitly prohibits such behaviour under threat of punishment. Anonymously, I am persuaded to ask the High House to put in place solutions that will stop the use of hate speech, deliberately misleading the public, which should be corrected in every respect. We can't fix the harm, but we can prevent some tragedies. Let legal financial penalties work so high that blasphemy, lying or hat doesn't pay off anybody, and effectively teach citizens not to call everyone to hate. In this way, we will improve the sense of safety of normal citizens who have no problem with decent behaviour in different situations and under all circumstances. High Izbo! I ask for respect for myself, for others, and for those we should protect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u648	Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u649	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! March 1 is the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. We celebrate this National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed by law for the seventh time. It made us proud when we went to pl. Józef Piłsudski in Warsaw The central authorities with the President, with the Prime Minister, with the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, with the Polish Army paid tribute and respect to the heroes of the greatest test, which were cursed soldiers, the steadfast soldiers. Cursed by the communist system and steadfast, for the memory of them was kept by families and patriotic part of society. Today the highest authorities and the Polish Army pay tribute to the soldiers cursed. That's the power we have, and that's what the whole nation's happy about. The nation is cleansing itself from the falsehood that the communist system has given us. This holiday is celebrated all over Poland. All over Poland there was a wave of commemoration of heroes. I want to share, High Sejm, the feelings that accompanied the inhabitants of Goszczyn. I was there, too. Goszczyn is a small village in the Grójecki district and has made a great tribute of courage and valor on the altar of his homeland. During the Second World War, there was a strong regional centre of the National Army in Głuszec, and during the communist enslavement in Poland, close management was recruited from the area of the commune of Goszczyn, as well as numerous troops of the nationwide conspiracy and independence organization of the Paramilitary Conspiracy Defense PSL, Poland Szturmówka Chłopska. This organization was recruited from rural youth working in the field and learning. In 1953. Sixty-two soldiers of this organization were sentenced to high prison sentences, and four executives received death sentences. One of the executives, Stefan Pietrusinski, nickname Rysiek, was executed in 1953 on Rakowiecka. Until now, his remains have not been found. The ceremonies took place with the participation of the Polish Army. There was an honorary salvo and a recall call. Numerously gathered people with the greatest respect and appreciation referred to the perfectly conducted military ceremony, and especially to the appeal of memory and honoring the honorary salvo of the heroes of the struggle for independence of Poland - enchanted soldiers. We also honored the memory of Michał Prussia, a soldier of the Home Army murdered by the UB Commandant in Goszczyna on 16 February 1945. Until now, his remains have not been found either. I would like to express my respect and thank you for promoting patriotism by honoring and honoring true heroes by the Polish Army. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u650	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u651	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days in Poland, in many larger and smaller towns - in the capital also, my previous speaker mentioned this - important patriotic events took place, during which hundreds, thousands of Poles commemorated, restored the memory of steadfast heroes from many, many years ago, directly postwar years, cursed soldiers. This restoration of memory in Poland, in our homeland has been taking place for several years, actually for several years. It's because of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, who first started restoring the memory of Polish soldiers fighting for independent and free Poland. It was on his initiative that the bill was drafted and in 2011 here in the High House we passed a law that established the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers on 1 March. Also in the Łódź voivodship, High Izbo, in many places we celebrated and restored this memory in various forms. But I'd like to say one thing. A group of several parliamentarians of Law and Justice from the Łódź Voivodeship, Senators and Members, appeared - not for the first time, because for the fourth time - with an initiative to organize in our voivodeship, Łódź Voivodeship, the contest The competition was aimed at the youth of upper secondary schools. At our appeal, we received a positive response from over 100 schools. We got to each of them individually, because every school that applied for the competition had school eliminations. It was a test. At every stage it was a test - knowledge about the soldiers cursed, about their resumes, about the events of those years. Later, the best qualified for regional finals, and the best from regional finals - to the voivodeship finals, which took place last Monday, 6 March, in Łódź. High Izbo! More than 2 thousand took part in this competition. Young Poles and Poles, young students for whom solid soldiers are cursed simply heroes. In the decision of the voivodship, in which I had the pleasure to participate, there were 347 participants, the best of the best. The test, which counted 50 questions, failed to solve four. The others didn't look any worse. This shows that the teachers who prepared these young people took their duty very seriously and the young people prepared excellently. We organizers are most glad that through such a form of history lessons, restoration of memory, this is the story we are spreading among the young generation of Poles. The best - because we managed to collect interesting prizes thanks to cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance and many public institutions, as well as private partners - thanks to Fr. Marian Kilichowski will go on a two-week pilgrimage to Fatima and for 5 days thanks to Mr Zbigniew Kuzmiuk - to Brussels. The others got good equipment, tablets, other gifts, books, honorary diplomas. But - that's what young participants said - the most important thing was for them in all this... The most important part was the participation and that thanks to this competition they could learn their knowledge that they could learn a lot of new about solid heroes from years ago. Thank you very much to all young Poles, students from our Łódź voivodship, who in this [[♪ The bell ♪]] The competition was attended by all teachers preparing young people for this competition...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u652	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-associated...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u653	...co-organizers and organizers of this competition. Thank you very much. Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak: ...a further statement, please. Hello and glory to the soldiers cursed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u654	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u655	...damaged heroes from years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u656	Mr President, we're done here. Five minutes is a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u657	Thank you. I'm done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u658	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The diplomatic disaster which Poland unfortunately experienced in Brussels is the result and consequence of this policy, which was chosen by the Law and Justice not only during this term of office of the Sejm, not only by this government. If the Law and Justice, together with President Lech Kaczyński, had not supported the Treaty of Lisbon a few years ago, they could have blocked Donald Tusk's election today because it was the Treaty of Lisbon that changed the rules for the election of the President of the European Council. Unfortunately, the lack of consistency and primacy in defending Polish sovereignty today took revenge on the rulers. Of course, it can be said, as Minister Waszczykowski said, that this shows where the European Union is evolving. Of course, the direction is the same, the direction has been the same since the beginning of the 1990s, since the creation of the European Union, the successive treaties, and this direction has always been supported by the Law and Justice. Nothing has changed in this regard. The European Union, from year to year, from Treaty to Treaty, every time a new law is imposed, becomes an increasingly centralised federation, a federal state. Law and Justice have supported this direction all the time, and today it gathers the bitter fruits of its unbiasedness, the lack of primacy in defence of Polish sovereignty. Let's face it, Law and Justice can be uncompromising. It could be uncompromising in this House about Mr Szczerba, it can be uncompromising about Donald Tusk, you can act uncompromising about Bartłomiej Misiewicz, defending him heroically in your positions. But this uncompromisingness is lacking in really important matters. It was missing from the Lisbon Treaty, the rejection of this fatal act, the absence of abortion, the lack of it on really important, civilizational issues. That's the truth, unfortunately. Today he showed and exposed some facts. Firstly, there is no idea for reform of the European Union by the Polish Government. This is fiction. Besides, the National Movement has been saying for a long time that the reform of the European Union is fiction. Today's behaviour and the whole series, which led to the catastrophe in Brussels, also testify that the government in Warsaw, that the political leadership of Law and Justice does not take these announcements about the reform of the Union seriously. Because you don't go against all the countries of the Union, if you're serious about reforming this institution, it's obvious. It simply follows that Jarosław Kaczyński treats international affairs completely secondary and subordinates all logic to the current internal gameplay. Secondly, it was not true that we have some influence in the Visegrad Group, in which Poland is the leader. The moment of rehearsal came, the moment when political loyalty had to be shown. And what suddenly turned out to be? That Poland is alone. Thirdly, in addition to paying for errors, for conscious elections, let us be honest, the Law and Justice supported the European army, supports the common foreign policy, supports the single market. It is not that suddenly today the voices rise that Beata Szydło defends Poland's sovereignty. No, it is not Tusk who depends on Poland's sovereignty, but on the Treaty of Lisbon and supporting German influence consistently. But finally, I wanted to talk about a constructive proposal for law and justice to learn from this disaster, from this foreign policy disaster, from this lack of foreign policy. Of course, Minister Waszczykowski, responsible for almost... He doesn't have weeks so there's no screw-up so there's no problem caused by him. But we also need to change the rules of foreign policy completely. And the National Movement here claims: first, national egoism as a value, second, border politics as an eastern policy instead of romantic messianic myths, thirdly finally, a multi-vector foreign policy towards powers, which we have included in the National Movement programme. This needs to be reviewed, because Polish foreign policy is simply nowhere today, and it threatens with very serious consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u659	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u660	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In 1927 the first international Chopin competition took place in the Warsaw Philharmonic. The inventor, initiator and actual creator of this competition was Professor Jerzy Żurawlew, who dreamed of popularizing Chopin's music in the world and giving our pianists a chance to interact with the international music world. This is how the idea of an international Chopin competition was born. However, the implementation of this fine project faced various difficulties, the main of which was a financial matter. The concert would not have taken place if it had not been for sensitivity, kindness and financial support of a friend of Professor Henryk Rewkiewicz, then the director of the State Monopoly of Match. Thanks to the selfless attitude of your director, the first international Chopin competition was held, gaining prestige and great popularity. Reality surpassed the dream of the designer. Today the competition attracts crowds of listeners to the philharmonic. The figure of the director of the State Monopoly of Matched Henryk Revkiewicz deserves the highest respect for posterity. His memory cannot be forgotten. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the first international Chopin competition, which obliges me as a Member of the Częstochowa Land, the place where the last witness of the pre-war State Monopol Zapalczany, namely Częstochowa Fabryka Zapalek, is located, to remind and popularize the anniversary of the competition and the character of the director Henryk Rewkiewicz. Greetings to all Chopin music lovers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u661	Thank you very much, Member. Today, Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club, will make a final statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u662	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 March 2011, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 Poland celebrated the National Day of Remembrance for the first time. Many Poles responded by surprise to this national holiday. For years heroes of anti-communist underground power called bandits, and this is because instead of idling with Soviet terror, they actively stood up to defend themselves, their families and to defend our homeland. Last week, celebrations were held to commemorate heroes throughout the country. This was also mentioned by my fellow Members. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Also in Gorlice on Sunday 26 February I had the privilege of organizing the National Day of Remembrance for the fourth time in cooperation with the Gorlicki Cultural Centre and the Department of the Institute of National Remembrance in Krakow. This year, under the honorary patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland, Dr. Andrzej Duda, the Soldiers of the Cursed One, were joined with the final concert of the 3rd Gorlicka Patriotic Song Competition. Our commemoration ceremony was preceded by the Holy Mass. in the intention of the country in the smaller basilica in Gorlice. After Mass we put flowers together in the hospital chapel, where there is a memory board of Fr. Władysław Gurgach, a chaplain of the Polish Underground Independence Army from the territory of the Court of Justice. For two years, Father Władysław Gurgacz was a chaplain at the Gorlice hospital, but he considered it his duty to provide pastoral care for partisans, to bring spiritual comfort to the forest. Communists for giving half Masses. and teaching life according to the commands of the Catholic faith sentenced him to death. The judgment was carried out in September 1949. In 2008 the President of the Republic of Poland, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, awarded postmortem Fr. Władysław Gurgacz with the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Our main celebrations of the National Day of Remembrance were held in the theatre hall of the Gorlicki Cultural Centre, which was filled to the full with residents of the Gorlicki district, the Sądecczyzna district and invited guests. In a special way, I would also like to thank the marshals of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland for their occasional addresses addressed to the organizers and participants. I'm grateful to you, sir. Dr Jarosław Szarkow - President of the Institute of National Remembrance, who came to Gorlice on that day and gave a special lecture. The Gorlice festivities featured the performances of the winners of the patriotic song competition organized by us, who performed patriotic works, reminding us that it is especially on young people that it is their duty to cultivate the memory of national history and heroes. The ceremony was culminated in a concert of the Border Guard's Representative Orchestra from Nowy Sącz under the baton of the chapelmaster, Major Leszek Mieczkowski. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The celebrations of the day of memory of the cursed soldiers throughout the country make those whose communist propaganda wanted to condemn and try to erase from national memory come back, reminding us of attitudes and values, thanks to which our homeland survived the most difficult moments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u663	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u664	Statement on the 195th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, exactly 10 March, we will celebrate the 195th anniversary of the death of Józef Wybicki - a Polish writer and politician, the author of the words of the Polish national anthem, Masurka Dąbrowskie. Józef Wybicki was born on 29 September 1747 in Bedomina near Kościerzyna in Kaszubach in a noble family. At the age of 18, he graduated from the Jesuit College in Old Scots near Gdansk and began his judicial practice. He participated in the election of King Stanisław August Poniatowski. In 1767 he was elected as a member of the Sejm and then began to make acquaintances with future members of the bar confederacy. At the Seym in 1768 he protested against the plans of Russian Member Mikołaj Repnin to bring about equality between dissidents and dissidents. He was also in favour of approving cardinal rights. However, his veto was not approved, the Sejm was suspended, and Wybicki had to leave Warsaw for threatening a Russian Member. Soon he joined the bar confederation to defend his country against Russia, as he claimed. As part of the Confederacy he was sent on many foreign missions, among others. Austria or the Netherlands. During Kościuszko's insurrection Wybicki was a major general of the Pomeranian militia. He participated in the defence of Warsaw against the Prussian-Russian assault. After his third dissection, he went to Paris for exile. Then he joined Napoleon's army and joined the political life of the Duchy of Warsaw. Four years later, he received the title of a French baron. Wybicki was also a poet. In his literary works he addressed issues related to politics and social life. He did not think very highly of his poetic talent, but he wrote a poem that knows every Pole - Mazurek Dąbrowskie. The present anthem of Poland was founded in Reggio, Italy in July 1797 especially for the farewell of General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski going to meet Napoleon. He was sung to the tune of an old mazurka. In time, the words of the poem have undergone a number of modifications to its content to the changing historical circumstances. Originally it was a military song, then a national song, performed during patriotic celebrations. Since the Battle of Grochow in 1831, during the November Uprising, it began to be regarded as a national anthem. During the period of Poland's loss of independence, Dąbrowski's Mazurek belonged to the most popular patriotic songs. In 1926 he was declared an official national anthem. Wybicki died on 10 March 1822 in Mannies near Śrem, he was buried in Brodnica near Śrem, where his empty grave is now located. In 1923, the remains were moved to Poznań, to the crypt at St. Wojciech, where the well-deserved Great Poles lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u665	They, fighting, thought of us. We, living, remember them. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 March 2017, we celebrated once again the national holiday established on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, restoring to the Pantheon the Heroes of the Narodowy soldiers cursed - Poles who challenged communist dictatorship in defence of the highest values. By Act of 3 February 2011 (announced on 15 February 2011), the Sejm of the Republic of Poland established on 1 March the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. This festival is an expression of tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for their testimony of bravery, unbreakable patriotic attitude and attachment to patriotic traditions, for the blood shed in defence of their homeland. The National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers is also an expression of homage to numerous local communities whose patriotism and constant willingness of victims for the independence idea allowed the continuation of resistance for many years. It is an expression of gratitude for the fight against the sovietization of the country of soldiers who have never received any reward - for decades, branded by the name of the bandits and surrounded by contempt, they have lived only in the memory of their closest and faithful comrades in arms. The National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers is a modest reparation and payment of moral debt to the most steadfast. Now they're back on history cards, although their names and aliases were to be erased forever. They were given a shameful death, and they were deprived of graves, so that they would not become a model for the generations to follow. As a member of the Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers, I would like to thank teachers and educators of children and young people, heads of schools and cultural institutions, representatives of various backgrounds for the organisation of the National Day of Remembrance, for their special attention in the first days of March to commemorate the heroes of the anti-communist underground. I would like to express my special thanks to the director Remigiusz Koźminski and the teachers of the Municipal School Complex in Radziejow for the wonderful and moving verbal and musical assembly - a beautiful spectacle presented at the Diocesan Museum in Włocławek. I thank the young people who showed patriotism - a beautiful attitude of love for their homeland, setting an example for their peers. I would also like to express my thanks to the representatives of the National School of Education and Higher Education in Włocławek for this valuable initiative to commemorate the heroes of the anti-communist underground from the region.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u666	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is worth mentioning today an important anniversary. On 9 March 1983, she was interned after a forced strike in Gdańsk Shipyard, accused of continuing union activities under martial law, and was brought before a court in Grudziądz Anna Valentynowicz. She was sentenced to a year and a half incarcerated. In 1983, on the radio station of Polish Radio Free Europe, journalist Wacław Pomorski said: "Military authorities are bringing Anna Valentynowicz to justice, accusing her of the greatest crime in the eyes of Communists - continuing union activity after 13 December 1981. In other words, she was accused of being active in defending workers' rights at a time when she needed extraordinary courage and fearless attitude to say out loud what she thought. Anna Valentynowicz was characterized by a steadfast attitude. After she got out of prison, she said: "I'm not doing anything wrong, I'm just helping others survive. And I'm gonna do it, you gotta do it. We must help one another without harming anyone, on the contrary, we must correct evil. At the moment, I believe that I should help people who are imprisoned, and that is my task - said Anna Valentynowicz immediately after she was released from prison in 1984. In communist times, when the majority of those involved in the opposition went through moments of test of character, when some were allowed to break or voluntarily cooperate with the SB, reporting to their colleagues for money, they were asleep. Anna Valentinovich witnessed true heroism. Not all of them, including those who consider themselves leaders of Solidarity, were able to afford it. In July 2006, the Gdańsk Institute of National Remembrance revealed that Anna Valentynowicz had been monitoring over 100 officers and secret security officers, and in 1981 she was planned to be killed by drug poisoning. Let's remember today about this unbreakable hero. Let's remember Anna Solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u667	Declaration on the correct marking and technical state of the roads within railway crossings. Dear Marshal, According to the data of the Railway Transport Office, 223 accidents occurred in 2016. As a result, 53 people were killed and 34 were badly injured. The situation is also similar in such places as the so-called. wild crossings, i.e. those in which railway tracks are not permitted. In these cases 142 people died and 50 were badly injured. It happens that accidents that occur in these places are attributed to the railways, while the irregularities that led them are not always on their side. Attention should be paid to irregularities such as incorrect location of vehicles, difficulties in obtaining information from road managers by the railway infrastructure manager, e.g. the results of the measurement of traffic intensity, and the lack of cooperation and mutual information of railway infrastructure managers, police and road managers on the checks carried out. The Railway Transport Office proposes that the road infrastructure manager should also inform the relevant railway infrastructure manager or the President of the UTK after indicating the irregularity at the crossing. I think it is also worth considering this occasion in the case of the protection of the youngest, the idea of the President of the UTK, who proposed to the Minister of National Education to include in every stage the education of children and young people information provided to students in the framework of the office's ABC Rail Campaign. On the other hand, I call on the High House to draw attention to this and to analyse the phenomenon and the problem in depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u668	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Next Saturday, March 11th, we celebrate the Day of the Sołtys, an annual Polish holiday which is an expression of gratitude and respect for the chiefs for their work, and at the same time a good opportunity to draw the attention of society to the role of the soultys in the Polish village. The institution of the Council has been known in Poland since the Middle Ages. The centuries-old tradition and the ever-important position of the head of the rural community indicate that this function is extremely needed. Importantly, the council elects the villagers, which is the result of which most often becomes a person who shows outstanding knowledge of local affairs. Today, the duties of the chiefs, apart from representing the council outside, include: convening rural meetings, implementing the resolutions of the municipality council, as well as collecting agricultural and forestry taxes. On the eve of this year's celebrations, I would like to express my sincere thanks and wishes to the villagers of all the regions of our country, and in particular to the Opolskie Voivodeship Councils, which I am a representative of. As a former self-government officer, I am convinced that every councilman is a unique person. You have been given special trust by the people of your towns. The fulfilment of social functions is a difficult task, which in this case requires additional and specific personality characteristics, because this country, among all local authorities, is closest to your local communities. Every day you deal directly with all the problems of the people of your community, often these are not easy meetings. Acting as a tax collector is a difficult and responsible task, which can often cause negative associations. It is also important that the Council must have mediation capacity in order to respond and take the right stance in conflict cases. However, thanks to your resourcefulness and your diligence, you are able to cope with all of this. At this point I would like to remind you of the important achievement of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, i.e. the adoption of a new regulation on the functioning of the Social Fund. Separation from the municipal budget of the measures guaranteed for the implementation of projects to improve the lives of villagers with an increase of 15% the number of municipalities in which the fund operates has strengthened the position of the local authorities. The amendment was made by virtue of the Law of 21 February 2014 on the Social Fund. I would like to point out that, according to this law, the Sołecki Fund was allocated PLN 129 million from the state budget in 2016, and in 2017 this amount is already at PLN 132 million. At this point it is impossible to ignore the fact that on 27 January this year. At first reading, the Parliament's draft law on the Councils and the Soviet Councils was rejected by the votes of the Members of the Law and Justice. The project envisaged strengthening the system of settlements as supporting bodies in rural communities. According to the project, the powers of the local authorities were to be re-established. At the same time, the project sought to strengthen the position of the Chief of Staff, which thanks to the new competences was to obtain the powers of a public officer, and assumed to grant, regardless of the diet and reimbursement of the travel expenses, remuneration relating to the functions performed. Unfortunately, the project was rejected. To conclude, I would like to sincerely thank all the Councils for their efforts, work and dedication. I wish you perseverance, success, satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. Let the feeling of a well-fulfilled duty to the villagers be the source of your satisfaction and joy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u669	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Bielsko-Bialski Aero Club is a highly rated branch of Polish Aero Club. It has titled members, professional instructors, modern equipment and rich infrastructure. He runs an aircraft, glider and parachute section. It has e.g. Airport in Aleksandrowice. In the near vicinity, in Międzybrodzie Żywiecki, there is a Górska Szybowcowa School, which is one of the main centres of glider training in Poland. The school has a perfectly located airport on Mount Żar in Beskid Mały. All of this constitutes an excellent training base for possible use by the emerging troops of the Territorial Defence Forces. One such branch is to be established in Bielsko-Biała by 2020. Among the tasks facing soldiers of territorial defence are among others. carrying out military activities in cooperation with operational forces, civil and property protection, search actions or cooperation with elements of the state's defence system. From this point of view, I would like to point out that the Ministry of National Defence should take into account the involvement of the potential of the Bielsko-Bialski Aeroclub and the Mountain Stool School for pro-defence training. The directions for possible cooperation should be discussed in detail with the Aeroclub and school authorities by a well-targeted team of the Military Territorial Defence and Air Force Command. It will also be useful to invite the Civil Aviation Office and other entities from so-called. a third sector whose participation in the project would be justified. The agreement drawn up should take into account both the defence needs of the Republic of Poland and the interests of the Aero Club and the school, which will certainly be willing to share their experience, infrastructure and equipment under appropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-09-sejm-37-2.u670	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 10 March 2017, by 3 p.m. 11. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 22]]
