ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws. He's an ombudsperson. Do you, Mr. Ombudsman, wish to speak? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u2	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak in the Senate on the Act on the National Judicial Council. The Ombudsman participates in the debate on judicial reform because I believe that both the Law on the National Judicial Council and the Law on the Supreme Court, as well as the previously adopted law on the system of universal courts, are of fundamental importance for the implementation of the constitutional right to a court as set out in Article. 45 Constitutions and Art. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, I would like to stress that the concerns expressed by numerous NGOs, numerous international organisations, including the National Judicial Council Act, are concerned about the proposed laws. I believe that this concern is justified because the entry into force of the Act on the National Judicial Council, and perhaps the Law on the Supreme Court, will have very concrete consequences for the independence of the judiciary. I believe that the constitutional right to court cannot be exercised if the courts are not independent. This independence of the court is the foundation on which the principle of three divisions of power is based. Moreover, if we observe the process, and this process can be observed, concentrating the various powers of power in the hands of the police, the prosecutor's office, the special services, the courts are the only shield for citizens, the courts are the only shield against the sovereignty of the executive authority and should constitute this defence of civil rights and freedoms. But it's hard to make that possible without their independence. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to begin my speech with a reminder, and today it serves well, what were the historical grounds for the creation of the National Judicial Council, and why the National Judicial Council is shaped in such a way and not in any other way on the basis of the Constitution. I would like to say this because the approach to this issue is important from the point of view of how we think about who should appoint members of the judiciary or members of the judges of the National Judicial Council, which is basically the main point of the dispute as regards the law on the National Judicial Council. The first such historic moment in terms of the legacy of the "Solidarity," when serious discussions were held about guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, was the announcement of Letter 59 of 1975, letter 59 of the signatories, which was addressed to the authorities. It was then written that the independence of the courts from the executive authorities should be ensured. Later, demands on the independence of the judiciary appeared in the work of the Workers' Defence Committee. As far as the National Judicial Council itself is concerned, the most important point in the discussion on the subject was the nationwide forum of judicial staff, which took place on 17 January 1981 on the initiative of the judge of the District Court in Krakow Kazimierz Barczyk at the Jagiellonian University. This was the moment when it was the forum and then the initiatives that were taken under, you can say, the leadership of Judge Kazimierz Barczyk... This was the moment when the Civil Service Centre of Legislative Initiatives was established, and this was the first time that a request was made to set up a National Judicial Council. And in fact, what was undisputed later throughout the 1980s is that judicial reforms should be based on the independence of the judiciary, on the preservation of the three divisions of power, on the integrity of judges, but also on the creation of this independent National Judicial Council. This process and the fact that this postulate was basically undisputed and not subject to more discussion, were described very well by Professor Andrzej Friszke in his paper at the Round Table. About Poland The democratic rule of law. This paper was delivered on 3 September this year at a conference at the University of Warsaw. Well, throughout the 1980s, it seems like it's worth emphasising this request that was still supported until the Round Table was held. The Round Table began on 6 February 1989. Representatives of the communist authorities and representatives of the "Solidarity" sub-group were involved in the work of the legal and judicial reform. The team was chaired, as we all know, by Professor Adam Strzembosz and Łukasz Balcer, and the opposition side was created by outstanding activists, including others. Zbigniew Bujak, Lech Falandysz, Jarosław Kaczyński, Zbigniew Romaszewski, Jadwiga Skórzewska, Adam Strzembosz just, Zofia Wasilkowska. And it is very important that already at the beginning of the Round Table's work there was a proposal to create a Supreme Judicial Council. I would like to emphasise here. These are the words of Mrs Jadwiga Skórzewska It was said that the formation of a chief judicial council consisting of delegates of general court assemblies, Supreme Administrative Courts, Supreme Courts and delegates of parliamentary clubs was being established. Please note that the word "delegates" is of fundamental importance. Since the beginning of the work, it has been thought of the National Judicial Council in this way as an organ which will constitute a delegation of judges from the various general assemblies. It can be said that the historical date of this decision within the framework of this subtable was 22 February 1989. It was then that the legal and judicial reform sub-group decided to create the highest judicial council. This was justified by Jerzy Ciemniewski, and Jarosław Kaczyński supported this position during the work. It can be said that there was no discussion that the National Judicial Council, then known as the Supreme Judicial Council, was to be established. There were only disputes about naming. The bone of disagreement, a matter on which the representatives of the communist authorities and of Solidarity did not agree, was a general reform of criminal policy. In this paper, Professor Friszke points out that this was a failure, because various issues concerning the reform of the criminal procedure have not been met. But the institutional issues have been agreed. And if we now look at the agreement of 5 April 1989, that is, the agreement that summarized the political arrangements, we will find there a passage: "Judge's independence will be guarded by the National Council of Courts, consisting mostly of judges delegated by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and universal courts. It will present to the President the appointment of a judge or promotion to a higher court of one of the two candidates submitted by the General Assembly of the courts of the district where the need for the appointment of judges arose. The independence of the judiciary will be based on the principle of incapacity of judges (except in the cases set out in the Act) and the failure of judges, contrary to their will, to another place of office. I stress that the word "delegated" is very important, because this is our tradition of government, historical tradition. The National Judicial Council is created in such a way that, on the one hand, there is a political representation consisting of 4 Members, 2 Senators, a representative of the President and the Prosecutor General, and on the other hand, there are judges posted by the relevant judicial assemblies. And if we look at our 1997 constitution now, we'll see that it reflects this historic character of the council. No one questioned this, and even if there were critical voices in doctrine, I do not recall any serious arguments suggesting that this is precisely where the National Judicial Council should be reformed, that this provision of the article. 187 of the Constitution should be amended in such a way as to give the opportunity to appoint members of the National Judicial Council to Parliament. And I would like to draw attention to that, because I think that since we have such a wonderful and great historical heritage, the heritage resulting from the fact that in communist times human rights were violated, that the courts were subject to political power and mechanisms were created to counteract it... The National Judicial Council was supposed to be one of those mechanisms. Its construction has just assumed this balancing of different types of authorities, it can be said, the disassembly of the National Judicial Council between the different authorities, so that it is the body of control and mutual balancing of the authorities. And I don't normally see any arguments why this should be ruined, and I don't see any arguments why this should be changed. When I hear the argument that more political control is needed... In my view, it is rather important to ensure that Members, Senators and the President's representative make maximum use of their capacity to act in the National Judicial Council, but that Parliament is not given the opportunity to appoint judges. And now what may raise doubts in this context, and what was already debated yesterday. We must be aware that if Members are to choose the members of the National Judicial Council, those members of the judiciary, the very situation in which the judge becomes the nominator of one party or another, of one or another parliamentary club, he already creates, you can say, a threat to his sense of independence and probably to the public's acceptance. From this, it seems to me, it is worth to begin the discussion at all: that the procedure for nomination and support by one or another political party already raises doubts. However, we must also be aware that, after all, the procedure laid down in the Act allows, at least, the members of the National Council of Courts to become judges posted to the Ministry of Justice. There is no obstacle to these judges, on the one hand, being candidates and on the other hand being candidates for the National Judicial Council. If we look also at the numbers, i.e. the fact that about 200 judges work at the Ministry of Justice, has a kind of relationship, as well as a service relationship, with the Minister of Justice, then we will see that the danger is serious. Moreover, the entry into force of the law on the system of common courts has led some judges to have a direct relationship with the Minister of Justice also because they became Presidents of the courts. Here I would like to stress that the law on the system of common courts allows for the dismissal of the Presidents of the courts practically on the basis of a discretionary decision of the Minister and also the appointment of new Presidents of the courts in the same way. And that also creates, you can say, a relationship that already in itself threatens the independence of the judiciary. And let's imagine now that it's just like this. These newly appointed Presidents will be designated as candidates for the National Judicial Council. So that citizens may feel that this body will not be fully independent. I draw such scenarios to show that these are issues that have a very specific, specific meaning in terms of body design, and that rules that seemingly sound neutral can serve to achieve certain objectives. So I would like to stress that the issue that raises the greatest doubts is that Parliament will have an impact on the cast of the National Judicial Council, and in this way what is, can be said, will be destroyed by the acquis of our history, the history of the eighties and later years, which is reflected in the 1997 Constitution. Of course, it is worth mentioning that this type of construction also raises concerns from the point of view of international standards. If we invoke one of these standards Kiev's principles concerning the independence of the judiciary, which have been created in the framework of the work of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe... These principles provide that if a body is set up to safeguard the independence of the judiciary, such as the National Judicial Council The majority of its members should be appointed by the judges themselves, because this is the form ensure the independence of that body. And I would like to stress that, for some reason, this legislative reform is of interest to the international community. The OSCE prepared its own critical opinion, which was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the Senate on Monday, but I would also like to draw attention to the opinion which emerged from the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of the judiciary. The UN Special Rapporteur is a body that is appointed by the UN Human Rights Council and is tasked with observing the development of standards in different countries. He made an official visit to Poland a few weeks ago and after this visit he made general recommendations, which also address the issue of independence of the National Judicial Council. He pointed out two issues: firstly, that a law in this form could cause concern in terms of threats to the independence of the judiciary; secondly, to shorten the term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council. A similar concern was expressed by the Venice Commission in its opinion, which was adopted on 8 December this year. On that day, the Venice Commission adopted 2 reports, 2 reports on Polish legislation. One referred to the independence of the judiciary, the other referred to the reform of the prosecutor's office. Now I would like to refer precisely to this second report, the report by the Venice Commission on judicial reform, because I think that... listening to the debate yesterday, I thought it was worth explaining one thing and filling it in. The Venice Commission, in preparing its opinion, was based on the draft law, which was, you might say, prepared earlier by the President, on this original project. That is, on this project, which assumed that Parliament would choose 3/5 of the composition of the National Judicial Council and then, in the absence of agreement on the choice, the introduction of the principle: 1 Member is 1 vote. As we know, for various reasons, this solution has been abandoned. The solution that is currently in the Act is the solution that involves the appointment of members by an absolute majority in the absence of a choice of 3/5. In fact, in this respect, the opinion of the Venice Commission, as Minister Surówka-Pasek said, is obsolete because it does not address the amended issue. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the Venice Commission points out that already entrusting and changing the way in which Parliament is appointed threatens the independence of the judiciary. And what has not changed with regard to the original project and the present one, that is what is of second concern to me and should be of concern to any person who is looking at the legislation, i.e. shortening the term of office of members of the National Judicial Council. This is the introduction of a solution that shortens the current term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council for the introduction of this, one can say, a common term for all members. The Venice Commission refers to this issue in a very direct way and devotes as many as 3 paragraphs of its opinion to this issue. First of all, the Venice Commission points out that the mere introduction of this common term may raise doubts as unsynchronised terms are a common feature in the collegial bodies in Europe. Why? Because they guarantee institutional memory and continuation of the work of such bodies. Moreover, they ensure internal pluralism and strengthen the independence of such bodies. The Venice Commission points out that if persons are appointed for different terms of office, this can ensure pluralism of their opinions. The Venice Commission indicates And here I would like to quote Even if we assume that the joint term of office is politically justified, this objective can be otherwise achieved in a way that does not affect the current term of office of the members. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of June 2017 does not call for the removal of all current members of the National Judicial Council. The current members should remain in office until the end of the term of office for which they have been appointed, while new members may be appointed for a shorter period of time. With the assurance that at some point the objective of the joint term of office of all members will be achieved. As the Venice Commission points out, this solution will not only respect the security of the term of office but will also ensure a better institutional continuation of the work of this type of body. I would like to point out that the role of the Venice Commission is not merely criticism. Its role is, in a sense, what we need to be aware of, advising countries. After all, the Venice Commission was set up as a body of the Council of Europe The body equipped, one can say, with the greatest authority in relation to the opinion of the various laws, proposals for amendments, even the constitution; the body consisting of many prominent experts in constitutional law. This body, you can say, extends the limits of its action beyond the Council of Europe. The States that support the Venice Commission are in total 61 together with the United States and Canada. It is hard to imagine another body that enjoys greater authority in the world. Since there is an indication, the suggestion that a solution to this common term could have been reached in a different way, while not violating standards or constitutions, it seems to me that such a recommendation should be taken to heart. I would like to point out that these are issues that should not be dealt with in a hasty manner. These are issues that should be the subject of wider consultation. It seems to me that this indication that a political objective can be achieved in the form of a joint term of office by allowing the former members of the National Judicial Council to complete their term of office is worth more consideration. At the end of my speech, I would like to point out that we have two types of arguments in favour of not reforming the National Judicial Council in this way. First of all, historical arguments. It is our historical heritage that the National Council of Courts works in this way, not in any other way and that it represents the representation of judges . through the right of appointment 15 members of the National Judicial Council And the representation of other types of power. This is a construction that for many, many years has been And I think it's valued in the world. I recall that when two years ago, in June 2015, I took part in a conference in Brno, where the creation of a national judicial council was considered, I was asked to present a Polish model because it was considered that the Polish model was very interesting when it comes to creating these good relations between the various authorities. The second argument is a constitutional argument. I think it's Art. 187 should be interpreted in such a way that it is the judges who appoint these 15 members of the National Courts Council and that this systematic and historical interpretation of the Constitution should lead to this. Secondly, I believe that the legislator should not shorten the term of office of the constitutional authorities. If such practices arise that the legislator decides to shorten his term of office, someone may ask themselves: who will be next? What next constitutional authority will have a shortened term of office by law? And with this question, I would like to conclude my speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u3	Thank you very much. I didn't greet the guests, so I very much welcome all the guests who attended our meeting yesterday. I also welcome today the Minister, the President's advisor, Mrs Zofia Romaszewska. I very much welcome the Minister. [[Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Irena Zofia Romaszewska: Good morning.]] Good morning. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the ombudsman on this item. And if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you a question. You were kind to say that the whole discussion should begin with a political problem, with nomination, with choice, with independence. I would like to ask you, as ombudsman, if you are in your decisions, in your objective action? Are there any pressure from any political party on your activities? If so, which parties and which politicians are pressing you? If so, please tell me which decisions you have made... [[That question has to be lifted.]] [[That question has to be lifted.]] [[Gentlemen, a little serious.]] ... under the influence of any political party and any politician? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] So I'm asking, are you objective in your actions, or are you objective in your actions? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because you said it was a fundamental charge. In your statement, that was the main charge. Those senators who scream, I'd say I wouldn't ask that question because I'm not in the habit of asking questions... But you yourself started by saying that this is your main charge. You've been elected by one political formation. I recall that, as here in the Senate, we chose you, all the Senators of Law and Justice were against you, and the Senators of the Civic Platform confirmed your choice. Do you feel dependent or independent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u4	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for the question. In fact, I take this question more as a comment to my speech and probably to the very fact that I appear here today in this context, and also to the fact that I have appeared in this context. Also in July this year. The Ombudsman shall be independent from other authorities, from all authorities, and shall also be independent in his courts. As far as the various actions I take, including those relating to judicial reform, are absolutely based on my deep conviction, based on my many years of scientific work and earlier work as an independent activist of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. They are based on my concern for the independence of the judiciary as a constitutional value. What's more, I have the impression that if you look at my business, it would be clear that there are many things in which I take a position consistent with the line... or with the proposals presented by the government. Interpreting my speeches in such a way that I allegedly cooperate with one or another political party or that I am somehow helping her, is absolutely inappropriate in my opinion. I stress that the principle of the Ombudsman's office is independence and independence. I would also like to emphasise what I said in my annual report: I swore on the constitution and took the constitution very seriously.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u5	The judges will also swear on the constitution, Mr. Ombudsman. I get it. There was no suggestion in my question. There was a clear question mark in my question. I was just asking how you were feeling and if you were an independent spokesperson. Thank you so much for your answer. Senator Fedorovich asks the question first. [[That question should be avoided.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u6	I'm glad Mrs. Romaszewska's here. I respect this person very much. I feel sick, Mr. Marshal, when you are gracious to make such comments about a person... [[No comments, Senator. I asked you a question...]] It wasn't... Excuse me. [[I'm not commenting on your questions, so don't comment on mine. Okay?]] All right. I can't comment on them... [[Then don't comment.]] ...but I'm sure everyone else will comment on it. You point out that we are asking questions that are not relevant to the matter we are debating, and you are asking such questions yourself. As a result, I feel uncomfortable. The question to the Ombudsman was not a question relating to his speech, and I have a question concerning his speech. [[It was related to the performance, Mr. Senator. There you go.]] Good. Let's leave our loyalty to the oath we're taking on the side because we're not children. I have great confidence in your spokesperson, and I know that he is an independent man. If there's a situation where they're gonna throw something at you, then, please, someone pass it on to you. Sorry about the light emotions. I have a specific question. We're talking here with lawyers. There are young lawyers here who have prepared a bill that we disagree with. Imagine... Please stand in the position of a young judge who will now be appointed by politicians. In any case, his sentence will be slandered and discredited by the defendant. [[It's not about that.]] It's a psychological arrangement for law students and people who are applying for a judge right now. That's for sure. So tell me if there are countries in the West and the East that have such rules. That's the first question. Second question. The long debate I attended yesterday was very important. The shortening of the term of office may become a precedent and the beginning of the shortening of the term of office of all representatives of constitutional bodies, including you. I remind you, without being a lawyer, that precedent is a legal case that can be applied. Please tell me whether such situations take place anywhere in Europe and whether anyone calls for them. I am convinced by the opinion of the Venice Commission... [[Senator, you've already exceeded your time by 30 seconds.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm overstepped. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, while continuing to think of Mr. Marshal Karczewski, I will ask about the article. 209 Constitution: The Ombudsman shall be appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate for 5 years. Art. 210 Constitution: The Ombudsman is independent in his activity, independent from other state bodies. You suggested that holding competitions by the members of the council, by judges who will be elected by the Sejm, poses a threat to independence. Do you think you're losing your independence because you're elected by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha. You're welcome. We'll ask your spokesperson for answers later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, I have tried very hard to listen to your speech and I must say that it itself contained many different types of contradictions. I mean, among other things. about this part of your speech, when you brought up history, the beginnings of discussions about the shape of the Polish judiciary. You exchanged the names of politicians on one or the other side of the political dispute, which was already taking place in Poland, among others. Prof. Strzembosz, even Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński. How does this apply to your later thesis that, if the National Judicial Council or the judicial authorities are to be independent, they must be as far away from politics as possible, since it is at its root that there is a discussion of its shape in which politicians, the political environments involved? In addition, I think that you haven't been spared from your feelings and emotions, and you happen to reveal these emotions here, e.g. to our legislative initiative, you used the word "broken," then you quickly corrected it by saying that it could not be changed. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Tell me, too, why do you think that the issues we are leaning on right now are being resolved in a hasty manner. Is six months of debate on the shape of the Polish judiciary a rush? This discussion has been going on since the early summer months, and at the moment we have Christmas season, you can say. [[Time, Senator, time.]] I think six months is a time in which you can really take a calm look at all aspects of this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u11	Please, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u12	Thank you so much for asking. To answer Senator Fedorovich's question, I will explain that there are generally two models of appointing judges in Europe. One model is a model: a judge's position as a crown of a legal career, i.e. a model in which he chooses, selects already outstanding, experienced lawyers, having absolute trust in them, and then nominates them to the courts. This is also possible in Poland, although it is relatively rarely used, which I think should be regretted. The President of the Criminal Chamber present here, Judge Stanisław Zabłocki, is an example of this because his appointment to the Supreme Court was preceded by a career of attorney, a prominent lawyer. The second model is based on the so-called. a judge's career and assumes that lawyers are trained and prepared for the role of judge, prepared for how to exercise judicial authority. And this is a model that, in fact, seems to be currently dominant in Europe because justice requires quite special preparation, as well as quite large judges. And the model in which the judge's position is the crown of the legal professions is not fully implemented. However, regardless of the model, whether one or another, in all the procedures that are created, it is always placed on this far-reaching independence of the judge at the time of appointment, in such a way that this judge is not subject to any political pressure. The National Judicial Council, such bodies, plays a very important role in the selection process of candidates, the process of verifying their qualifications and subsequently establishing them, or the presentation to the relevant authorities, such as the President, of their appointments. With regard to the possible impact of politicians on the sense of independence, we have a Polish case that was discussed yesterday. It is a matter of two Mr Urban v. Poland, Mr. Counselor Silchoń was a proxy in this case. I'm sure it wasn't Mr. Jerzy Urban, he had other stories before the Strasbourg tribunal, they were just two gentlemen. The European Court of Human Rights has pointed out that this, rather than a different design concerning the appointment of judicial assistants, could put their judicial independence at risk. In this context, you can say yes. What we need to be aware of is that if we lower the standards concerning nomination procedures, including the standard concerning the independence of the National Council of Courts, unfortunately, at some point there may be a charge that judges who are appointed in Poland are not independent. So it can happen that this will not only have consequences in the context of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, because even if it occurs, it is a perspective quite distant over time, but it may also be dangerous to challenge national courts judgments precisely because of issues relating to judicial independence. I am referring specifically to cooperation in civil matters, in criminal matters. We can imagine, for example. a court in France which states that because the judgment was delivered by a court in respect of which we have doubts as to its independence In view of the various factors, since the President of this court was appointed directly by the Minister, since the nomination procedures were not entirely clear and precise and the National Council of the Court of Justice reduced its level of independence We refuse to cooperate with our courts, e.g. in the case of a European arrest warrant. So that's a very serious perspective. I recall the opinions of the Venice Commission, because the world looks at these issues, looks at these issues and takes this into account. I'd like to give you an example of one very specific case and show you what this might look like. In this example we have been able to challenge doubts, but it is, I think, rather illustrative. There is a case of a lawsuit against ZDF television by Mr.Karol Tendera for the use of the wording of the Polish concentration camp. In this case, the district and appeal courts in Cracow recognised and ruled that the use of such wording in relation to the former Auschwitz prisoner constitutes a violation of his personal property, and the court ordered an apology to Mr. Karol Tendera. I am very lucky to have joined this case and supported Mr. Charles Tendera's argument. And now we come to the second stage, namely the execution of this sentence. Imagine that before the court in Koblenz, the ZDF television agent began to make such arguments that, since there are doubts about the independence of the judiciary in Poland, he also referred to the whole debate that lasted in Poland in July. It is no longer possible to trust this judgment. I presented to Mr. Charles Tendera my own letter, which was presented in the proceedings, and, happily, the court in Koblenz, one can say, did not find this argument concerning the lack of independence of the courts. But this shows a certain perspective, i.e. that such arguments will be used and debated in a moment... not even a debate, will be a way of undermining the credibility of our justice system. Therefore, the independence of the National Judicial Council is so important, the independence of the Supreme Court is so important. As regards the question of shortening the term of office of constitutional authorities, I would like to give two examples, just examples from Hungary. One example is well known, this is the case of Mr András Baki, the President of the Hungarian Supreme Court, whose term of office has been shortened due to the creation of a new body, Kúria. This body was replaced by the Supreme Court, but had virtually the same possibilities of action. The European Court of Human Rights stated that this constitutes an infringement of the law, Article. 6 and Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 10 The European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. the standards of independence of courts and freedom of expression. It's one of those cases. The second case does not concern a constitutional body, but, I think, a body with a rather similar... body in some sense independent This was the result of the reform of the data protection authority in Hungary, which resulted in a combination of the various institutions that dealt with these issues. And another result was the shortening of András Jóri's term of office, which was, you can say, the Hungarian GIODO, the General Data Protection Officer. And in this case, he was ruling... His term of office was four years, but after 2 years this term was shortened due to the entry into force of the new law which reformed these internal data protection institutions. This case was dealt with by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union found that, due to the wording of the article. 7 Charter of Fundamental Rights This is a provision that states that the Union respects the protection of personal data and the independence of the authorities that deal with it. The reform of this kind, which led to the shortening of the term of office, threatened the independence of that body. This is the judgment of the TEU, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the case of the Commission v Hungary. Because this is where the European Commission initiated the procedure. So that situations like this happen. About Senator Ambrozik's question about the article. 209 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the independence and independence of the Ombudsman, I would like to say that our model of the Ombudsman's office is so constructed that the Ombudsman is chosen by one or another political party or representatives of a political party In my case, it was basically a large part of the Civic Platform, several members of PSL and SLD, so that it was a wider representation than what the marshal suggested. But it is referred primarily to as a 5-year term, secondly, to appropriate mechanisms of responsibility, i.e. the presentation of an annual report, and thus this independence and independence are preserved. They are also preserved because this term of office cannot be shortened Unless, for example, a spokesperson. commit a crime or commit other acts that could lead to a specific impeachment procedure. So here... Here I would like to point out that what is the fundamental difference as regards the Office of the Ombudsman and the body of the National Judicial Council, is that the Ombudsman is an authority to speak, comment, to make general speeches, to proceed to proceedings, etc., but the Ombudsman does not take any decisions. Yes? The Ombudsman does not take any decisions which would affect specific decisions on civil rights and freedoms, unlike the National Judicial Council, because the National Judicial Council decides decisions on the professional future of persons, on promotions, on transfer, etc. For example, the recent debate on the problem of judicial assessors shows how important these decisions are. As for Senator Warzocha's question, I wouldn't see a contradiction here, because politicians... However you look at it, the process of making constitutional changes begins with politicians. It is politicians who decide how the system rules are shaped in the country, they prepare the right projects, whether it's the system solutions or the constitutional solutions. As was the case first in 1989 and later as part of the work of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. But what else is the creation of this system framework, and what else is there? The current impact of politicians on the cast of constitutional bodies. If our constitution has provided for such and not another format for the creation of the National Judicial Council, i.e. it has entrusted politicians with the right to appoint 4 Members, 2 Senators and a representative of the President to the National Judicial Council, then the judges should have the right to appoint the others. As far as words are concerned, it can be said, more adjective, but unfortunately I believe that the implementation of the law on the National Judicial Council will worsen the standards on judicial independence. On the other hand, if we look at the law on the National Judicial Council from such a long perspective, i.e., we can say, even since the beginning of the year, we will see that this discussion has been going on for some time, while this last project, which we have been able to get to know, has been presented relatively recently and important amendments have also been introduced in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. And that's why my words about this hasty mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u13	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're not a marshal, are you? Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, we know exactly what a hasty mode is here. The night before yesterday, the committee was sitting, and the next day, we were gonna take care of it. So if the senator is asking a question about this, I'm surprised. I'd like to ask you two questions. The Lord, in office, always has I know that. Contact with the justice system, with the courts. Citizens feel hurt, they get their rights, they appeal to the Ombudsman, they ask you to participate in many proceedings. Therefore, due to your experience, thanks to such a look from the bottom, on the human side, please tell us whether in your opinion the National Council of Judicial Affairs in its current composition is guilty of the shortcomings of the Polish judiciary. Because it is accused of doing so, also in the justification for the appointment procedure changes, because it wants to improve the state of the judiciary, which is bad, for which the council is responsible. So I'd ask her to refer to it. Next line. Well, Mr. Spokesman was the first, probably because of his experience, to show what it means, that the National Council of Courts is at the forefront of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. But I would also like you to look down like that and tell us what this is ultimately threatening the citizen. If there is a politicisation of the council, what is the ultimate threat to the citizen? Because people don't understand that we are here debating who is to be chosen by whom; they think: what do I care? Why should we understand these citizens protesting outside?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, on the basis of the opinion of the Venice Commission and your own opinions, you have actually mentioned 3 serious constitutional doubts; I would call them unconstitutional solutions. That's what it is. I'm talking in a nutshell. The Sejm's choice, the synchronized terms you call common, and the shortening of the term of office. It seems to me that these 3 problems are not equivalent, i.e. the essential problem is the choice by the Sejm. In turn, the synchronization of the term of office greatly strengthens politicisation; there is no blur through time, through different moments of choice. In turn, shortening the term of office is of little importance in this case, I believe, but the most formal one in terms of constitutional crime. Do you have the documents you have, for example? the opinion of the committee, and your own assessment confirm any hierarchy of this and the degree of threat resulting from these questionable solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u17	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, and then we'll ask for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Mrs. Marshal, first of all, I would like to say a brief one thing. Thank you for not lifting our questions yesterday. Mr. Marshal Karczewski also thank you that today he started with a question unrelated to the bill and did not repeal it. I think we're gonna have, like, in that spirit... that our questions are gonna go down, too. Mr. Spokesman, referring to Senator Warzocha's question, I would ask you to assess your Ombudsman in this manner. Because we know that. Yesterday, you spoke to Judge Zawistowski about this, and yesterday, I think you were present, you were with us until the end of the session. That it is a system act and that the work on such a law should last two to three years. So we have this situation: the President is submitting a bill in September, then discussions are underway with President Kaczyński, then officials are working on it, Mr Mucha and Mr Piotrowicz are working on it, then there are amendments, and it quickly goes to the Sejm, and on Friday we as senators are watching the draft law ready. Is it in your opinion that it is the right way to work on the draft law? I'm not asking what the P.I.S. Senators think, if it's okay with them, that they get the bill on Friday and they're supposed to give it up, but I'm asking you how you feel about this mode. That's the first question. And second question. Mr. Ombudsman, of course, the Ombudsman is elected by the votes of the Sejm and the Senate. And as for what the Senators of Law and Justice have said here today, this choice can also be regarded as a political choice. I'd like you to comment on this situation. Is there a fundamental difference between the spokesperson elected by the Sejm and the Senate and the judge ruling, making decisions that are chosen but also monitored and evaluated by politicians? Could you tell the difference?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u19	Thank you. Please, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u20	Thank you so much for the questions. In fact, the Ombudsman has extensive contact with the justice system. Besides, I'm not alone here in the O.R. You are Minister Marcin Warchoł, whom I worked with earlier, even when the Minister was an employee of the Ombudsman's office. And with the Minister, we've been taking care of, like... [[Cell phone signal]] What's this? Oh, that's my... I'm sorry. ...on the excessive use of temporary arrests or other cases that have entered the Criminal Law Team. There is much to do in Poland when it comes to justice. Anyway, after the president announced his decision on vetoes, we prepared such a big general speech at the office. It was sent to the President's Office at the beginning of September. Where, in a sense, we have summarized all the statements made by the Ombudsman and the issues to be addressed when it comes to the functioning of the justice system. It was, among other things.: cognition of courts; promotion of mediation; issue of the delivery of judicial mail; issues relating to proceedings in the case of minors; organisational issues concerning assistants, judicial officers assisting the judge in carrying out his work; status of judicial experts still leaves much, much to be desired. It was a lot of issues that make up how our justice system works. The National Judicial Council has a very special task because it has a constitutional task to uphold the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. She doesn't have the task of protecting the justice system to function perfectly, because she doesn't even have, you know, mechanisms to ensure that she does. She is unable to ensure that it is such, and not another budget for the courts, that it is not able to ensure that one or another law is adopted is not able to provide an adequate administrative cast for the courts. It's all the government's job and the Minister of Justice's job. Of course, it may have an impact on the discussion, it may have an impact on addressing specific issues in relation to judicial reform, but this power is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. If we looked at the space of the whole transformation, we would see that one of the main wines concerning justice is that very often ministers who had different visions about where the judiciary should go have changed. In fact, now Minister Ziobro is probably the longest minister of justice in history, because it was on average 11, 12, 13 months earlier. If ministers have changed and have not accompanied this in depth, it can be said that political agreement on how the justice system should be changed organisationally, and if I would also like to draw attention to this. - Yeah, yeah, not always accompanied by a proper reflection of the judges themselves on what the public says about their work, and here I would like to refer to the wonderful achievements of NGOs, which pointed out, for example, a number of issues concerning the culture and organisation of hearings, the planning of meetings, the relationship with the parties to proceedings, the continuity of proceedings, etc., that unfortunately all caused the situation that we have today. I absolutely agree that the justice system needs to be reformed, that it needs to be changed, but I am not convinced that what we should start with is the reform of the National Judicial Council, and that this is the most important point when it comes to reforms. So I'd like to... and this is my handwriting. I'd like to get back to it. The President, sent to you in September, was in a sense an invitation or an indication, one could say, a specific road map, how many things should be fixed. And here, too, so... I don't want to stay in a climate like this, that I don't see the changes that the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Justice is making. I told you, for example. There is a certain opportunity to deal with juvenile cases, as far as I know that the amendment will be adopted or new proceedings will be introduced in juvenile cases. I know that some work is being done, but I do not think that the general functioning of the judiciary will change since the reform of the National Judicial Council. I believe that this will rather put the independence of the judiciary at risk. Now, referring to the question of this second question of Senator Augustine, regarding what ultimately threatens the citizen, I would like to point out, one can say, a quite important distinction in terms of the concept of independence. Because if a citizen comes to court, he has a judge in front of him to settle his case, and this citizen should feel that this judge is absolutely independent in his courts and bases interpretations of laws on the basis of the constitution and laws. Only now there are two concepts, one concept is internal independence, the other concept is external independence. Internal independence is what this judge has in his heart, which is part of his ethos, professional ethics, his, you can say, moral preparation for this function. And you can create a general climate and educate judges to shape this ethos, but this is something very untraceable. This is something that is formed over the years, but also something that depends on how we shape, you can say, the stability of this service. So if someone takes up this function, they know in a way that they're meant to serve those values that they don't care about deep down in their hearts for their whole lives. But there is something else that we call external independence, namely what we create around this judge a circle of different legal safeguards that make us not leave decisions on matters only and only his feelings. Because feelings can be different, they can be feelings of fear, they can be feelings of pressure, feelings of danger to this judge. And these aspects, which are intended to serve external independence, are all aspects of appointing judges, moving them between departments or between courts, irresistibility, but also those that concern how the President of the Court is appointed, how the head of the department is appointed, what role does the judge of the Visitor play, that is, all these professional relations. But this is, of course, also a matter of relation with bodies such as the National Judicial Council. If this body, which is the National Judicial Council, acts in favour of, you can say, the deep independence of the judiciary, and this is what this is for, and not another way of appointing members of the National Judicial Council, then in a sense it strengthens this value in the form of the independence of an external judge. Senator Wach's question about the opinion of the Venice Commission. I would like to draw attention here... I quoted this passage from the opinion on the joint term of office. And here I would like to point out that the committee of §30 opinions starts with words: but even if we assume that a joint term is politically justified, the objective can be achieved in a different way. So the Venice Commission evaluates this, from the point of view of some pragmatism, the rationality of the solution, considering that if the previous experience of committee members and the international experience resulting from the observation of many different systems were taken into account, it would be better if they were divided terms, but if it was considered that such a political decision was taken, this effect could be achieved in a different way, i.e. by varying the expiry of the term of office of individual members and by bringing them all together to the point in which they all begin to fulfil their terms. Yeah, that's what I'm pointing to. But, of course, because of the importance of these systemic arguments, this is the most important argument, this is the cloud of the problem and it is already, you can say, a specific didaxalia compared to what is the core of the regulation. Senator Czarnobaj's question about the procedure for adopting such a law. If there is a systemic change, I believe that the good legislative procedure should look as follows. First, consultations are conducted with the scientific community, the constitutionalist environment through conferences, seminars and, you can say, methods of seeking a certain agreement, understanding of the issue. Later, assumptions are prepared for the draft law, which are the subject of an opinion. The draft law is then prepared, which is the subject of a broad consultation with all possible stakeholders. And only later is this presented as a draft law, there is, of course, an appropriate debate in Parliament, and then there is the President's decision. In this case, I have the impression that these rules have not been respected. If we were looking from the point of view of the ideal lawmaking process, we would see that this perfect, you can say, model was not preserved. And now, to point out that it's possible, I'm going to say that I remember that it was, for example. the draft law on collective actions, the amendment of the law on collective actions, in which the debate was about this way, i.e. there were prior extensive consultations, assumptions for the project, draft law... well, the act has not yet been adopted. But also, as far as the consultation procedure is concerned, in my opinion, it is an addition to this government. I don't hesitate to use that word here. The procedure for preparing the consultation of the reform of higher education by Prime Minister Gowin is the procedure for preparing the consultation of the reform of higher education. Why? Because this is a slightly different model, assuming the selection of scientific consortia, which will consult the scientific community and then discuss the proposals that have been prepared by these consortia. And this, I think, is a very interesting new acquis in terms of how the legislative process can be carried out. But regardless of whether it's one model or another, it all has to go on, because all this has to be prepared for long enough, and it has to be the subject of a reflection that will give all interested parties a chance to think about these changes properly. As regards the issue of political evaluation and this fundamental difference between the Advocate and the Judges, I have already said that the judges are taking very specific decisions, but in my opinion it is not true that judges are not subject to any assessment. Sometimes in our public debate there is such an assessment that judges are irresponsible, not subject to judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the judge's assessment, we will first see an in-house assessment, i.e. the correction of judgments by higher courts, including cassation courts. That's the first line. There is an assessment which may result from the visit of the court concerned by the judges of the Visitors who assess the practice in the courts concerned. There is a social evaluation that may result either from the involvement of non-governmental organisations in proceedings, either from the observation of processes, or from the monitoring by the media of how courts work in specific cases. In Poland, the big problem is, in my opinion, that in recent years the profession of court reporters has almost disappeared, and this has always been a very important source of information for all of us about what is happening in courts. Finally, there is a scientific evaluation of the drafting of the vote. The judges really care about how the scientific community evaluates their judgments. There is also a disciplinary assessment, and disciplinary proceedings are, after all, public. Such disciplinary proceedings have repeatedly resulted in very serious consequences for the judges, including removal from the profession. Perhaps the problem is that these other mechanisms don't always work well enough. Perhaps there are not enough NGOs that are interested in justice, not enough journalists who would be interested. Citizens often do not know that they can simply go to court and observe how the court works, that the principle of transparency concerns any citizen who can appear in any court at any time. But I wouldn't agree with the theory that judges aren't subject to any judgment. These are, in my opinion, very serious evaluation mechanisms. And finally, this evaluation. It is also very important that the judge who is doing his job well should be promoted, and should achieve these higher levels. The problem I see here, too, is that sometimes thinking in terms of promotion may give rise to some suspicions about a certain judge's opportunism, but again it is rather... The outside politicians will not solve this, it is the judges themselves who must take care to shape the appropriate mechanisms for verification and promotion of these best, actually wise judges. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. I'll ask you one more question, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! If this is too much trouble, please say no and there will be no problem. Would you mind writing me, on one side, with the ombudsman's log, in my opinion, correct legislation? It's about what you've already said. It looks like this, anyway? One page, with a signature. I'm gonna frame this so I don't forget. That's one thing. And secondly, I'm gonna send this to a lot of my political friends, so they're gonna pay attention to it at Christmas. Could I have a letter like that for me? I'd appreciate it, of course, if that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u23	Mr. Senator... Good. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have two questions for you in this round. Almost half of your speech was a historical argument. You've explained why this procedure we're introducing here... why the shape of this bill is wrong. In fact, you argued that with the Round Table. You know, in order to prove a false argument like that, it's best to make it absurd. Let me remind you that at the Round Table it was also established that the elections to the Sejm were to be contractual, i.e. 65% the mandates are to be guaranteed for the PZPR and its Allies. I would ask you to answer the question of whether you would like to retain, or actually restore, this round-top resolution and which party would get the 65%. [[PiS.]] Of course. You see the absurdity of this argument. Ladies and gentlemen, from the moment we... [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me finish. Between 1989 and 2017 it has been a long time. Things have changed. The historical transformations that we have undergone in some compensation, other countries have been going through a much longer period. [[And the ghost stayed.]] Mr. Ombudsperson, something has changed since then, so the historical argument is at least conned if not at all wrong, false. That's the first line. Second line. That's what you said, too. It is about European standards. Last night we talked about these standards, about how it is in the European Union. Well, maybe not in the Union, but in some countries in the west of Europe. There are countries that have a completely different shape of electing members to bodies similar to our National Judicial Council. [[Question.]] Here's the question. Did the Venice Commission, which was here on the wallpaper, address these countries... We can list some of them: Denmark, France, Malta, Portugal. There's no advantage of judges in the KRS at all. Did the Venice Commission ask them to fix such a situation rather than another state? Because this is not in line with European standards. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] One last thought. In Italy and Spain, where most of the judges are... There the judges are elected by the parliaments. Here's the question. What about these countries? Where is the Venice Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u25	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u26	Unfortunately, I cannot resist the impression that there has really been a lot of changes in Poland over the last years, much, but Mr.Piotrowicz has not changed and is still with the ruling party. My question. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to ask you to... this question was addressed to President Zawistowski yesterday, but I would also like you to express your opinion on this subject and explain everything in a simple language that would also be understood by voters. I mean, people don't get it. We had a very big demonstration in July. The President vetoed two laws that day. Today they seem to be slightly changed. And people ask what actually happened. These are questions that should be asked to the President. But I'd like you to explain how these two projects are different, the July one and the one we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u27	Senator Rafał Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I'd like to return to the matter of your staff meeting with those in prisons. Senator Pęk and I have written you a letter on this matter. The answer shows that the analysis In March 2017, 82 legal proceedings were brought against 35 convicted persons. You write: I questioned 36 decisions, which is close to 45% cases analysed. You've filed an appeal, you've asked the court presidents to consider reopening the case. In your letter, you read that most of the cassation contained gross allegations and had a significant impact on the content of the decision to infringe the rules of procedure, including the broad right of defence. In the cassations it was claimed that the court ignored the information on the state of health of the accused, justifying doubt as to whether or not to be heard and to proceed incorrectly in order despite the existence of a statutory ban. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] In the proceedings, there were also absolute reasons for the appeal referred to in Article. 439 k.p.k., in the absence of a public defender. [[Voice from the room: Microphones are coupled.]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yeah, maybe I'll turn mine off...]] [[Phones.]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes, yes. I don't know if it's your senator or...]] [[Voice in the O.R.: I think someone in the O.R. didn't turn off...]] [[Mr. Senator, I understand that this is...]] No, no... It was an introduction, but I'm asking you a question. [[Then ask me a question, because time is up.]] [[Your marshal is gracious today.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Spokesman, why don't you turn off your...]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: I already turned off mine.]] [[Voice from the room: But the microphone. Is he gonna make it?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But I... please be quiet. Quiet, please.]] So... [[Senator, ask me a question. Shortly, because you've run out of time.]] So I have a question for you. You were talking about the broad competences of the National Judicial Council. It is a possibility of vetting, visiting; the National Council of the Court also speaks about the state of the judicial staff. I have a question. I know you've been directing speeches to different organs. Did you also refer this speech to the council with information about this check? And if not, why not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u29	Please, Mr. Spokesman. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u30	Thank you so much for the questions. First question about the Round Table. By quoting the Round Table's findings, I pointed to what was not later questioned. It is clear to me that such, not another mode of choosing the composition of Parliament, the Sejm and the Senate, which is the agreement of the Round Table, was then changed and that it was a political decision. However, this decision concerning such and not another formation of the National Judicial Council, and in particular what I have made clear that judges are to be posted by other courts to the National Judicial Council. In principle, it was not challenged throughout the period from 1989 until the Act on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council came into force. And in this respect, as I believe, it is absolutely fully entitled to use this, one can say, historical interpretation of why, and not otherwise, the National Council of the Court of Justice was shaped. And not without a reason one of those who participate in this debate and in a sense try to defend their achievements, as well as the achievements of those years, is Professor Adam Strzembosz, who just in a recent book, in an interview by Stanisław Zakroczymski indicates that this is how it was shaped. Therefore, it seems to me that reaching out to such historical arguments and pointing out where they came from, is absolutely justified here. It also takes into account the rank and It can be said that the nature of those who, in the findings of this, let's say, took part in the sub-table for judicial reform. Now it is a matter of European standards. This is a very difficult issue, because it is very easy to discuss this in any discussion that concerns either the Constitutional Court or the courts or other authorities: in that country it is different, in that country it is different, and in that country it is even different, so we will take these examples, we will refer to them and we will make certain changes. High Izbo, Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional culture is to itself that we, as a country, are creating our own work, which refers to the implementation of certain general principles. This is not a situation in which we are thinking about copying some, I don't know, specific model of group proceedings, class action, from the Netherlands or from Germany. We are thinking about the system solutions that come from our tradition and our constitution. And if our creators of the Constitution have assumed that there will be a National Judicial Council in this form, as this body that balances other types of government, then we should take into account, first of all, the achievements of our constitutional culture. Because if we accepted this argument that we should only follow examples from other countries, then someone could say that, for example. There is no ombudsman in Germany, and the office of ombudsman must be removed. Yes? And it doesn't matter that the spokesperson is celebrating his 30th anniversary. And by the way, thank you very much to Marshal Karczewski for his letter of congratulations on this occasion. I point out that our constitutional tradition thus determines the appointment of the National Judicial Council. And that's why there are these different kinds of international recommendations, standards to look at all countries and think about how to shape the best principles in each of them. This is the role of the OSCE, for example, in creating general principles that should be repeated or promoted in other countries. Even if we were to take the example of a country like Denmark or others in which we have a completely different system... Someone might say, "It's just different out there." Only the problem is that in those countries there are no threats to the independence of the judiciary, that the judiciary is treated there as a separate authority. It is particularly important there, which in turn is related to the constitutional culture and tradition of the country. I would like to point out once again that opinion, which was expressed by the OSCE on 5 May, to this original draft law. You could say that things haven't changed much. We read here that judicial councils and other similar bodies are necessary to support and guarantee the independence of the judicial authority in a given country, so they should be independent and impartial on their own, that is, free from interference by the executive and legislative authorities; in fact, interference with the independence of the authorities guaranteeing the independence of the courts could have an impact on the independence of the judiciary as a whole, potentially threatening it. And further: in Poland, the responsibility of such councils generally covers key issues relating to the independence of judges, in particular the appointment of judges and their promotions, and they represent the interests of the judiciary as a whole, in particular in its relations with the executive and legislative authorities. These are the guidelines of the opinion presented by the OSCE. In relation to these arguments, the OSCE pointed to issues related to the independence of the judiciary in point 47 of its original opinion. As for Senator Zdrojewska's question, how to explain... The Act on the National Judicial Council remained largely... This main core is, firstly, the shortening of the term of office, secondly, the appointment by Parliament... These issues remain here. Thus, the transfer of the possibility to appoint 15 members of the National Judicial Council from judges to politicians is not altered and this should be the focus. Of course, there have been significant changes, but this will be the subject of a separate debate on the Supreme Court Act. There is no longer a question of the fact that all judges retire overnight and that the Minister of Justice selects who remain in the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, we know very well that the Supreme Court Act also raises doubts, but I would save this for later. And Senator Ambrosik's question. I am very pleased that the senator is returning to this topic because I am equally concerned about this subject. This is about people with intellectual and mental disabilities in prisons and in detentions. The analysis we've done... I'll try to get the senator a book we just published tomorrow. This is a thick, 300-page paper on all these legal issues, issues related to the application of the law in situations involving such persons. As far as I can remember, all the speeches were presented to the Ministry of Justice on an ongoing basis, but, as far as I know, the National Council of Judicial Affairs participated in the conferences and seminars on this subject that we organised. Besides, it is such a good tradition that the Ombudsman meets with the National Judicial Council about once, twice a year and presents his various reservations about the functioning of the judicial system. These are always very good meetings, very deep discussions, members of the National Judicial Council are trying to listen to these issues. But I understand that the question is a little deeper, right? Because, as I understand it, the question is that we are dealing with various situations that could be called crisis situations or which should not be in the justice system. But in my opinion, if such situations occur, such problems must be resolved carefully through dialogue, seeking agreement with all authorities, involving all possible participants and identifying the problem. I am convinced that after all the action we've done, after many speeches, the cancellations, this problem will be reduced. And I would also point out the issue of evaluation. I've talked about this before. The Supreme Court, to which I directed the cassations, is precisely to say in such situations: this is not the way to do; such standards of conduct, e.g. failure to ensure the right of defence of persons with intellectual disabilities is unacceptable. Then such positions, so to speak, radiate down and then lower courts look much more closely at how to proceed in such situations. Maybe I'd mention... Too bad Senator Silence isn't here with us. There's one topic that I'm very grateful to the National Judicial Council for, and it's good that she took it. That is, in Poland we have had problems with the execution of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights for many, many years. Not in the sense of paying compensation, because it is simple, but in the sense of conveying, you can say, recommendations which result from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights to the courts. Yes? And it was the National Judicial Council that took the burden of such a debate. She organized several meetings and created such, you can say, a model of proceedings and recommendations as courts should deal with such judgments Not only at general level but also in the context of individual cases In the sense of how to learn from these judgments and not make similar mistakes in the future. So, of course, this role should continue to be played by the independent National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u32	I have a question. One point has actually been exhausted by my colleague Czerwiński, but I cannot move on to the fact that, speaking of the KRS, you were talking about a tradition sanctified by memory, about the history of the 1980s. Dear Mr. KRS, as I recall, was founded on 20 December 1989. [[A little louder, Mr. Senator, because I don't think you can hear me.]] The KRS was established on 20 December 1989 and was the finale of purely political arrangements between outgoing representatives of the authoritarian, communist regime and subject to them or manipulated, elected from the opposition, not the most intellectually powerful individuals. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[About Kaczynski...]] [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] Now. And so... [[Mr. Senator...]] I said, chosen. [[Mr. Senator...]] I said it very clearly. [[In front of...]] I'm gonna... But can I finish? [[Mr. Senator...]] [[December 13th...]] In any case, the stigma of the 1980s, which you remember here with great intensity, for many Poles, whom I know personally, is simply a disaster and a disaster. Literally. Then they suffered, they were... [[You're a torturer.]] [[Question, Senator, please.]] Were you watching the reality in Poland at the time, or were you Somewhere abroad? That's the first question. And second question. There's a time, a place, and a person in which... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but can I ask you a question if Mrs. Zdrojewska will bother me because she wants to talk to me right now. [[I'm sorry, but I'd like to hear, and you can't hear very well here. Really.]] [[Because my friends are in the way.]] Come closer to me, you'll hear better. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Quiet, please.]] Can I ask you a question or... [[Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, finish the question, because you're out of time.]] Now. Can I ask you another question in silence? [[Yes, please.]] Good. Sir, has it ever happened to you in this House, ever in the past 10 years, two years have passed, but earlier, within 8 years, the attention of the senators gathered here, mostly from the Civic Platform, which then ruled, to the malfunctions of the KRS? Thank you. [[He wasn't a spokesperson at the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u33	Senator Piotr Florek. [[Professor...]] Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u34	Thank you. It's me, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ombudsperson, abstracting from the fact that politicians are to choose 15 members of the Council and that this is unconstitutional, I would like to return to this choice by a majority of 3/5, to the President's proposal. Because in the second step, we have the absolute majority choice. Isn't this choice by a majority of 3/5 that's a facade record right now? Because we know that 3/5 is 276 votes, and in this situation depending on what the list of candidates is going to be, we can make decisions: either we agree or, if we don't, we still have a majority. I would like you to assess whether, in this situation, this provision, that the President has resigned, that he has agreed to this absolute majority, makes sense at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u35	Senator Józef Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I'll start as some senators begin. Namely, I value people who are faithful to their views, whether or not I agree with these views. And that's the group I'm calling your spokesperson. As far as my questions are concerned, the first one will be the Venice Commission, whose committee and opinions you have spent a great deal of time in your speech, I would say half the time. From the last time we visited the Venice Commission in Poland, Poles learned that unfortunately its representatives mostly do not understand Polish law, the peculiarities of Polish law. So I'm asking you why her opinions, the opinions of people who don't understand the law are so important to you. Not much, as I understand it, is what you're looking at as a sentence... We are being watched and listened to by Poles and may feel that something is going to happen to us if these opinions, these recommendations are not implemented and will not be treated as binding. That's one thing. The second question concerns the National Judicial Council, which we are already talking about, we have been discussing for several months, and now for several dozen hours. I would ask you to make it so clear that you understand the average Kowalski, whose cases go on in court, the lowest, district, now, let's assume the 11th year. Will the current national council, which we will choose in accordance with the new order, help this Kowalski, make the courts more efficient, effective and quick to pass a fair judgment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u37	There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u38	Thank you very much for the questions, for the next set. I believe, however, that it is worth going back to the 1980s and it is worth returning to the achievements of the podtable for reform of the law and the courts, which was set up within the Round Table and which was designed to prepare these changes in the system. This main argument is based not only on the authority of the members on the solidarity side, who were in this composition, the people previously associated with the Helsinki Commission, the KSS, the KOR, the Helsinki Committee, professors, experts, activists of the Solidarity... I was talking about those names here at first. But such, one can say, a symbol of this contemporary, but also of the debate at that time was Professor Adam Strzembosz, of whom integrity and independence are difficult to have any doubts. It is this Professor Adam Strzembosz who, after many years, takes various steps to defend this heritage and the said system solution. And again, if we read the river's interview, if we trace the history of Professor Adam Strzembosz, we will see clearly why the person who led the so-called. "Solidarity" is the way he fights for the standards of judicial independence. That's one argument. The second argument is that, as I said, we have a continuation in terms of the approach to the arrangements that have been made. And this continuation is reflected in the provisions of our Constitution of 1997 and in this particular structure of the National Courts Council. It seems to me that asking me questions about observing reality in those days is probably inappropriate, because in 1989 I was 12 years old and I was more focused on observing geographical atlases and learning at school than on deep political investigation. What I am basing myself on when it comes to historical discussion is a paper prepared by an outstanding expert, Professor Andrzej Friszke, who went through all the archives of that time and made the findings I quoted to you. I believe that these issues did not come up sufficiently yesterday, and I felt it was important to talk about it. As regards the reporting of irregularities in the functioning of the National Judicial Council, I would say that the Ombudsman is rather from observing irregularities as regards the protection of civil rights and freedoms, and this is the subject of my annual reports. We don't share that much, whether it's this court or another court... I'm trying to point to general trends. Of course, the criticism of the functioning of justice has been reflected in the Ombudsman's annual report, including in my reports presented to the High House. As for Senator Flork's question of choice by a majority of 3/5, I would say that I have the impression that this would already be a speculative analysis, that is to say, an analysis that would require me to refer to what might happen in Parliament. I would prefer to avoid speculation of this type, whether the 3/5 rule is apparent or whether the absolute majority that results from this second step will actually apply. Question about the Venice Commission. Once again, I would like to emphasise the status of the Venice Commission. There is no other international body that would be advisory to the authorities of countries, different countries. We have such an interesting situation that the Venice Commission has for many, many years not been interested in Poland at all in terms of system solutions, because these issues were not of much doubt, in many cases Polish solutions were even set as an example. However, the Venice Commission regularly reviews national solutions. When I was busy with Georgia or Azerbaijan at one time, I was very interested in reading opinions on solutions, whether on freedom of assembly or constitutional changes, or on judicial reform in those countries, which were prepared by the Venice Commission. It seems to me that the way the Venice Commission works is that there is not only an analysis of the laws or draft laws that are presented, but also visits to countries, consultation with different people. First of all, however, the selection of individuals to this body, who they are, that these are outstanding constitutional experts, influences the quality and authority of this body. I would like to point out that, of course, the opinion of the Venice Commission is non-binding. Ms Surówka-Pasek spoke yesterday about the fact that this is an opinion which cannot be treated, I do not know how the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union or the judgment of the Constitutional Court is, above all, an advisory opinion. However, this is an opinion which, due to the nature of the Venice Commission, is highly appreciated in the world. Of course, there's no mechanism here that if we don't follow the opinion of the Venice Commission, there's going to be some kind of sanction because that's not how it works. It works in such a way that these opinions are taken into account by other countries in relations with us, by other international organisations in relations with Poland, but are also taken into account, and this is what I have pointed out, in the context of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial cooperation in criminal, civil matters, how our justice system is perceived, and whether there are any threats to international cooperation, particularly in the European Union. And this, maybe not right away, but in some perspective it may matter if it is. to undermine the credibility of certain judgments. So in this case, these sanctions are kind of not direct, they're written down in time. So any crisis concerning the independence of the judiciary and independent courts will have consequences later on. Whether the current National Judicial Council will influence or help... It seems to me that the issue of the chronicity of proceedings as such is not directly related to the functioning itself, to one or another construction of the National Council of Courts, so to speak. I can imagine that if I do, it depends more on a certain activity, an interest in the problem. I know that the National Judicial Council was very involved in observing the implementation of the pilot judgment in Rutkowski and others against Poland. It was a judgment that said that our instrument, or complaint for the length of proceedings, did not work properly that it had a lot of shortcomings. It's a matter of... We should think about this problem and think about it from the perspective of whether the courts will be faster or slower, but from the perspective of whether the courts will be less or more independent. Unfortunately, changing the way of filling members of the judges' National Courts Council will lower the standards of independence of the judiciary in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! If I'm listening to your spokesperson, it's like we're from two different planets and we're looking at reality or through a window or some very distant... [[It's true.]] Because on the one hand, Mr. Spokesman. I ignore these historical elements • repaints the legal status of the KRS as an institution responsible for the justice system in very ideal colors, optimistic colours, and on the other hand... I have a question, Mr. Spokesman. Do ordinary people come to your Ombudsman's office and complain about the justice system? [[What the hell are you...]] 'Cause to my senator's office, I think to most senators' offices. The common people who cannot cope in court and come to justice arrive. Since, Mr. Ombudsman, you are also approached by ordinary citizens in the interests of every ombudsman... and the question. What are your views on the shortcomings of the Polish justice system? Are you able to mention the five biggest flaws, the five elements that should be changed, about which your spokesperson, e.g. Did he appeal in his speeches? Because it might somehow bring us closer together. We are not on two opposite ends, but I think we have a completely different picture of reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u41	And Senator Alexander Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions. I'd like to ask you a question that Senator Pekkis asked, which seems very important to me. This is the alleged intellectual property of the representatives of the "Solidarity" who negotiated with the authorities in 1989 the solutions that Senator Pekkis spoke about. I'm telling you right now, because from what I've read, I'd like to ask if that's true. Is that where Jarosław Kaczyński worked? I'd like to ask if that's true. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Zbigniew...]] [[Who said that?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] And my second question. Here I would like to address Senator Ambrosik's earlier question. Senator Ambrozik, asking questions about these disabled prisoners and criticizing the national council for not reacting, gave you a card. Well, I'm sure if anybody would ever think of shortening your term of office so that I could refer to the statement that honors you. And my second question concerns the Council of Europe. By joining the Council of Europe in 1991, we made some commitments. You spoke about this quite clearly at the beginning, but, after all, the Council of Europe, which... There are some international obligations, there are recommendations, there are recommendations, there are mechanisms for international cooperation, there are mechanisms for protecting human rights and for protecting democracy, and I would like you to say a few words about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u43	And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Well, you seduced me with this statement that we can, however, follow our history and tradition, and not necessarily European standards, although I admit that I am opposed to cultivating and strengthening round-table agreements. But that's the subject. for another discussion. Now, here's the question. Mr Ombudsperson, at the basis of your reasoning is this: a group of people who is elected or indicated by a certain body is dependent on it. If it's politicians who are quoting judges to the National Judicial Council, it's gonna be politicized and it's gonna be bad. Well, I'm against that kind of reasoning, because that would mean that those who chose you also somehow have an effect on you. You've been chosen, too. [[That's a good example, Mr. Senator.]] Well, I'm defending your spokesperson here. I say it's not, but you say it is, it's at the root of your reasoning. So now I ask a very simple question: who will it be easier to exert such influence? Or a politician who doesn't know the person he's pointing at, because that's usually the case. Or the person from the same court who is the judge's superior and sometimes subordinate? The ratio of the person indicating and indicating is, practically speaking, a business relationship. In which case can this impact be, so on logic, greater, Mr. Spokesman? Who's gonna be able to influence the squad more easily... It may not be about the composition, but about the operation of the National Judicial Council. And the old one and the new one. And second question. Well, if we don't know what to do, we have to appeal to the so-called. argument to stone, escape from reality. The question is very simple: how do you assess the current National Judicial Council and its action, in particular the last act on the assesaurs? More than 260 people didn't get nominated because I don't think the paper clips were the right color. Yes? Was there any documentation... [[That was explained yesterday.]] Yes, very good. We want to get one more... not an explanation, but an opinion from your spokesperson on this subject. How do you assess the activities of the current National Judicial Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u45	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Spokesman, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u46	Thank you so much for the next questions. I think I've already answered some of them to a certain extent. Absolutely, the Ombudsman's office is requested by applicants for the functioning of the judicial system. These are people who have, you can say, general complaints about how the courts function, but also those who ask for cassation complaints in their cases. So that I think we have a pretty good view of how the courts work, how the courts work. As for the flaws, I can name five. I think the first flaw is the chronicity of the procedure. I think that's the biggest problem. The second is that our procedures assume multi-instance. This is important, because this is a constitutional guarantee, but unfortunately this multi-instance at some point becomes a value for itself and does not lead to a settlement of the case. As the courts begin to do another so-called. laps, that doesn't bring things closer to the right solution. The third problem is the various problems with the delivery of legal items, the notification of the parties to the proceedings. I think that most often affects the duration of the procedure. The fourth flaw is the status of judicial experts, still inadequately regulated and still underfunded. This affects the fact that judges do not have adequate substantive support and that we are either looking forward to the expert opinion for a long time, or that these opinions are not well prepared, insufficiently prepared and are being challenged in the course of further work. Another flaw that I would point out is the organisational problems of the justice system due to the fact that judges do not have enough assistants and judicial officers to support them in their work, but also the fact that many judicial posts are uninsured. It seems to me that... the appeal of the judges of the District Court in Wołomin, who wrote, made public that there were 500 to 700 cases in the judge's paper and that for many years the new judicial positions had not been filled, so it is difficult to deal with such a large number of cases. In order to address all these issues, I believe that it is necessary to address all the issues that are so organic and slowly, i.e. to introduce solutions that relate to this. In this respect, I have already referred to the President's speech, which summarized my previous speeches on various organisational issues relating to the justice system. So that, Mr. Senator, just as we would have found an agreement and a space for cooperation on this subject in the fight against homelessness. Second question... Wait a minute. Senator Pociej's question about the representatives of the Solidarity in the composition of this podtable. I read: Zbigniew Bujak, Jerzy Ciemniewski, Lech Falandysz, Jerzy Jasiński, Jarosław Kaczyński, Andrzej Milczanowski, Jan Olszewski, Zbigniew Romaszewski, Jadwiga Skórzewska, Adam Strzembosz, Jacek Taylor, Zofia Wasilkowska, Janina Zakrzewska, Tadeusz Zieliński and Andrzej Zoll. It was the composition of the sub-table by the Solidarity. [[Applause]] As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, Poland is a Member State of the Council of Europe, but also a party to the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights. This accession obviously means that Poland respects the standards of the rule of law, democratic standards. Respecting these standards, especially the rule of law, is a matter of various specific provisions. And here it is worth pointing out, because we have not yet said that the body of the Council of Europe, which is intensely interested in Poland, has a task to do. It is the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Nils Muižnieks, who is equally critical of these judicial arrangements. The Venice Commission, recommending its opinions, is also part of the Council of Europe system. This is an institution acting under the aegis of the Council of Europe, but, as a matter of fact, it goes beyond borders as regards the scope of interest and membership, except for the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission co-creates 14 other countries, including, as I have already mentioned, the United States. The body, which is also important, is the European Network of Judicial Councils, which is also important and also addressed the issue of these recommendations. From a practical point of view, of course, this means that this subject may be discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is certain The parliamentary body monitoring the fulfilment of our obligations on this basis can be said to be of interest to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe or to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. In any case, membership of the Council of Europe is a membership which requires these standards to be respected. Of course, the most far-reaching enforcement mechanism is... It can be said that everything I have talked about so far has a meaning of the so-called. Reputation. That is what is said in the light of international law, all these critical opinions affect the reputation and perception of the state in the international sphere. The enforcement mechanism is, of course, the European Court of Human Rights, but in order the European Court of Human Rights to act in these matters, this must be a very specific matter which is under consideration. We discussed here, for example, the Urban and Urban case against Poland as an example of the fact that even institutional solutions relating to the status of asessor whether the judge may be the subject of an assessment by the Strasbourg Court, as well as the case of András Baki, the President of the Hungarian Supreme Court, which was also the subject of consideration by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Senator Czerwinski's question was, which is a bigger threat. Is it the situation when a politician calls a judge he may not know and points him out as a member of the National Council of the Court of Justice, or is it the relationship of office? However, I would like to return to my speech at the beginning of the speech here. However, I would like to point out that art. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 laws... Excuse me, lips first. 2. The subject-matter entitled to submit a candidate for membership of the Council shall be a group at least The President of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall be responsible for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of As a citizen, as a spokesman, I would feel safer if, for example, was added here: except for judges delegated to the Ministry of Justice, if there were such a guarantee that e.g. Judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice may not submit candidates. I would also feel safe and secure if it were so that the entities referred to in the mouth. Two, they can file more than one call... After all, theoretically, we can imagine a situation in which, for example, a group of 25 judges sent to the Ministry of Justice submit 15 candidates who are other delegated judges to the Ministry of Justice. Of course, I do not want to question the independence of these people in any way, and perhaps that they will exercise this office in an independent manner, also as members of the National Council of the Court of Justice, because I have no reason to point out such a threat, but my role is to point to potential threats, drawing also sometimes black scenarios that may arise, those scenarios which, unfortunately, may have an even greater impact on the cast of the National Judicial Council by the Minister of Justice, than the influence that he has only as a member of the National Judicial Council as a prosecutor general. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u47	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. However, Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to return to the fundamental and de facto fundamental issue in this case of the dispute between us, i.e. between you and our side, Law and Justice, represented here in the Senate. In fact, this fundamental dispute concerns whether, as a nation, as Poles, we are forced to continue in the heritage of the Polish People's Republic, or whether we can become sovereignty and nation as the same sovereign is to assume the function of the fundamental creator of constitutional principles. This argument is fundamental, because, in fact, when you write it, it sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of logical thinking. You represent the logical order of thinking such that we are forced to do so in the heritage of the Polish People's Republic, you call it a constitutional tradition, and I am therefore looking for this logical order of yours. And two questions related to this logical order of yours in this fundamental dispute. Namely on what principle You see the lesser threat so far in terms of the independence of case law, when the KRS and the whole post-peerel judiciary were a function of this original moment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Solidarity, Senator.]] ...that's the round-cloth discussion... Remember, it's worth confronting even... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] Yeah, yeah. Namely, why should judicial independence be greater in 1989 and 2017 according to this logical order which you present, than on the basis of what comes from today's law, which takes as the foundation of sovereignty of the nation? And the second point, namely the confrontation of positions. Well, that table we're talking about here. And I am very pleased to hear from Senator Pociej and your answer... Well, ask both Prof. Adam Strzembosz and Mr.John Olszewski and Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński, what is the attitude of both sides to the work of that podtable. As a historian, I can assure you. But I'd like your opinion on this. That's... [[Voices from the room: Question!]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: Question, not lecture.]] Now. ...that in conditions of inequality there were conversations, i.e. The Communist side could have killed the negotiators on the other side of the podtable, on the solidarity side, and the solidarity side could not have killed the Communists. Therefore, is it really our peril to live in such an inheritance, and it is only because you call it the Constitutional Tradition?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u49	Excuse me, before you answer, Minister, I am addressing your senators with two appeals. First of all, please respect the minute time to formulate a question, and second of all, I would ask you to quiet down your conversations, and we'll hear better. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u50	I can do it now, right? Thank you very much. I apologize cordially to Senator Czerwiński, because I forgot to answer the question about court assessors, and I absolutely do not want to miss this thread. I have examined this matter quite thoroughly, and I have also met with the judicial assessors, who, in this original decision, have not been presented for office by the National Judicial Council. I understood the situation in such a way that the National Judicial Council was in this difficult situation, that on the one hand the relevant documents were not prepared, i.e. mainly health certificates, and on the other hand the Council had to take a specific decision. After meeting with the assistants, I presented my opinion, quite comprehensive, encouraging the National Judicial Council to resume its proceedings in the case and to provide judicial assistants with the opportunity to supplement this dossier. As far as I know, a significant majority of these documents have been supplemented, and a decision has therefore been taken by the National Judicial Council. So I think it's rational and... [[They made a deal.]] Please? [[In terms of getting along.]] [[Senator, don't interfere.]] No, not getting along, I think it's the most common way in the world to solve a particular problem. May I, of course... Besides, my speech is available on the Ombudsman's website. Mr Zarin's question, of course, is of fundamental importance when it comes to an overall assessment of what can be done and what cannot be done on the basis of the Constitution and how this tradition or heritage obliges us. I think that's why I put forward these historical arguments to point out that... I have the impression that this is exactly the issue that comes from later constitutionalists' interests. In principle, it was not contested, i.e. it was practically reflected in the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. If even in the article. 187 of the Constitution has not been explicitly stated that it is the judicial assemblies that are to set up these judges, and I do not believe that this should be interpreted in such a way that it can be passed on to another body, because in this way the relationship between the authorities and this particular type of independence of the judiciary would be demolished. I am aware that the negotiations took place on the basis of this condition of inequality, which was formulated by the senator. Besides, what is also the subject of a historical evaluation is that many issues have not been agreed at all; these were issues reform of criminal policy, for example. But issues concerning the formation of the National Judicial Council were then reflected in the laws, and were reflected in the constitutional. I think it's worth going back to tradition in this regard. My logical order of thinking is that we should be careful to respect constitutional values and the independence of the judiciary. And, as I allow different ruling decisions on the general functioning of the State to be taken, I believe that they should not lead to constitutional principles, including the principle of judicial independence, being distorted by laws in a sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u51	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u52	Thank you kindly. I have two questions about the text of the bill. One that may seem less important to me, but... art. The Parliament shall, as far as possible, take account of the need to represent judges of different types and levels in the Council. I mean, above all, as far as possible. I am against the Sejm's choice at all, but assuming that this is the text and essentials... What does that mean as far as possible? It doesn't, in my opinion, provide anything. And what if it were to be deleted as far as possible? Would the Seym have to... The second question concerning the text, in my opinion, is more important. In my opinion, as I read the text of the bill, in the article. 11d shall be referred to a committee, the committee responsible, which shall establish a list of 15 candidates. The Sejm can only vote on this list in its entirety, i.e. accept it or reject it, whether it's 3/5 or an absolute majority, but only over this list. In my opinion, it appears from this text that no one can be elected to the National Judicial Council if he is not on the list of the right committee. It is not known what the committee responsible is. It seems like the Justice Committee, but maybe it'll be special... It seems to me quite wrong to say, and probably unconstitutional, that the Sejm is unable to choose anyone if it does not appear on the committee's list. He can reject these letters, he can do so many times. Then the same procedure is repeated. But the Sejm as a whole cannot choose anyone unless it has been presented by the committee responsible. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Yeah, what kind of committee is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u53	Please answer me, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u54	Thank you very much. As far as representativeness is concerned, I agree with the fact that Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the KRS Act does not provide a guarantee that judges of each type and level of courts will be elected to the National Courts Council. I have the impression, however, that such a general wording of the provision of the law may lead to the fact that the request, which was indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, will not be... may not be implemented and that this will be left to the good or bad will of politicians. So, in fact, politicians are going to have to think about it, and if necessary, take it into account. Here I would like to point out that, in the justification for the bill, a statement has been made, I quote: "The representativeness of the National Council of Courts and its social acceptance are characteristics which ensure the implementation of one of the most important human rights guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which is the right to court, implemented by an impartial, independent, independent and fair court. It is therefore proposed to introduce in the draft regulation enabling representation in the Council, where possible, judges belonging to the different types and levels of court. Yeah, but that's what's going on, if possible, is too general to actually be guaranteed. And that was also the subject of my opinion on page 5. About the article. 11d paragraph. Four, I'm gonna say yes. Probably the senator's attention is right that there may be such doubt here. But if I may ask... It seems to me that perhaps Minister Mucha or Minister Romaszewska could comment on this later, because I have no opinion on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u55	Now you're asking Senator Slugocki. [[I quit.]] Senator Dobrzyński is next in line. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Sir, I'm saying that when it comes to people who are talking about the possibility of politicians putting pressure on judges, it's an insult to judges, it's just a false thesis. And I am surprised by these people, especially the judges here saying that they allow the possibility of pressure on judges. Apparently, they have some kind of practice about it. [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] But to the point... Sir, recent municipal elections have shown obvious forgeries. How the Polish society is supposed to trust the current judicial environment if, in principle, neither the Supreme Court nor the National Court, nor you have taken a stand on this matter and nothing has been done to check the reasons for such high support of PSL - 27% And so to speak, mass assessment when it comes to votes that don't matter? Case number two. We remember how in 2015 the Platform elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as if forward... I did not hear any clear signal or clear resistance from the judicial circles of the KRS, the Supreme Court, on your part, that, however, this is contrary to the constitution. In fact, the judge's environment has earned itself, as far as such very serious state issues are concerned, a negative assessment of our society. Mr. Spokesman, my case... I'm in no hurry, of course, but you haven't answered my question in writing in months. That question concerned the Court. I'd like to ask you if this is your laziness or your office's mess? It's almost a year since I asked you a question and asked for a written answer. I am particularly interested in the answer to this last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u58	I have a question, Mr. Marshal. Is this the ombudsman's annual report or is it a debate about the National Judicial Council Act? [[Exactly. Bravo!]] [[Mr. Ombudsman, don't ask me, just answer questions according to what you know and how you want to answer.]] [[Don't answer that.]] I would be happy to answer, only the regret of the time of the honourable great House on issues that are not directly related to the debate. First of all, I'm convinced I responded to the letter. I really take my duties very seriously... [[It wasn't writing.]] I mean, to make an appearance. I remember signing a letter to the senator. I will try to deliver this letter during this session of the Senate. [[Good.]] The second issue is the issue of local elections. In 2014, I was not a spokesperson for civil rights. However, I would like to assure you that it is quite regular... that the Ombudsman's office is quite active in dealing with all issues relating to electoral order, electoral code. Even now, Dr. Zbiernek is taking part in the work on the ordination. We had a series of general speeches and seminars on these issues. As for the selection of judges in 2015, while still at the Helsinki Foundation, I signed an opinion I can get a copy too. In which I believed that the Platform or the parliamentary majority had the right to elect three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and that the additional two were incompatible with the Constitution. Perhaps the voice of the Helsinki Foundation was not heard enough at the time, but such a position exists in writing from June 2015. [[Well done, Mr. Spokesman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u59	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u60	Mr. Ombudsman, you have answered a fairly broad historical question. I'd like you to explain the matter of the institution we're discussing. Was it the result of communism, or was the formation of advice related to irregularities during communism? And would you include it in the heritage of the movement, or would you count it in the communist heritage?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u62	Thank you very much. Absolutely it is the heritage of.Solidarity, it is the heritage of the movement of.Solidarity, which was bound... It can be said that there were several factors. First it was the NRA. Then there was a discussion related to changes in the NSZZ Statute, which were carried out on 24 October 1980 by the Provincial Court in Warsaw, which resulted in the reaction of the "Solidarity" because the court arbitraryly amended the statutes. Then there was an initiative to carry out systemic changes in the judiciary by the judges' community, and here it is particularly about the National Coordination Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity of the Workers of the Justice Dimension, i.e. the famous Judge Solidarity, and the work of Prof. Strzembosz, because there was a discussion about the guarantee of independence. Finally, in January 1981 this initiative was set up in the form of a Civil Center for Legislative Initiatives led by Kazimierz Barczyk. The work was attended by judges Stanisław Rudnicki, Zofia Wasilkowska, Kazimierz Barczyk and Adam Strzembosz. And there were already discussions on legislative reform projects, 20 legislative proposals were prepared. This was then an issue raised in the context of further work. As part of the Round Table's work, it was considered necessary to create... First, it was the idea of this being the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice, but there were comments that the Supreme Council didn't sound very good. And Judge Wasilkowska suggested it was the National Judicial Council. This was absolutely a request on which the party of Solidarity insisted. All guarantees concerning the independence of the National Judicial Council were pressed. This was the response to human rights violations at that time and the lack of independence of the judiciary. The historical background was of great importance here. Probably the most important historical background, such as the document that showed the lack of independence of the judiciary and why it needs to be strengthened, was the Madrid report It's true, isn't it? The report, which was prepared by the KSS and then was the subject of extensive deliberations within the OSCE and which documented the abuse of the right to courts at that time. All these guarantees regarding the non-removalability of Supreme Court judges, the ban on the transfer of judges without their consent and the establishment of a National Judicial Council are in order to respond to the challenges of infringements of the right to court which occurred at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u63	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u64	Thank you. Mr. Ombudsperson, there have been numerous talks here about the shortcomings of the state of the judge, about the click, about the isolated state. Could you tell me, either in absolute numbers or in percentage, how many judges are in the Ministry of Justice? How do these proportions develop there?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u65	As far as I know, maybe I don't have the current stats, these judges are about 200. At one time there were a little less of them, 150 and 160 people. As part of the work of the Helsinki Foundation, I once prepared a report with Prof. David Sixty on the problem of sending judges to the Ministry of Justice. This is a six-seven-year-old report. We suggested in it that this is a structural problem. At a time when the cast of some of the employees of the Ministry of Justice is based on delegated judges, which in some ways may be of significant importance from the perspective of the supervisory functions performed by the Ministry of Justice... This may pose a threat not only to the independence of judges. They, of course, cannot judge at this time, but the fact itself, you can say, has raised some doubts about the connection with the ministry. This is, I'd say, an obstacle that hinders the creation of a civilian corps in the Ministry of Justice. In the long run, we should make sure that there is a decent, professional corps of civil servants in the ministry who know the law. This situation persists despite the objections raised many years ago and no minister has decided to resign in cooperation with the Delegated Judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u66	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to the two previous questions. I wasn't asking about the facts, I was asking about your assessment of the facts. I'm gonna ask you again. What do you think? When is it easier to influence the actions of the chosen person? It's about a body that makes a choice. If the proposal is made by a group of citizens or by another entity, e.g. 25 judges, as we propose, and politicians choose The contact here is relatively loose. Or when they choose their colleagues from the same or similar court, at times even subject or superior to the office? When can the impact be greater? Second question. I didn't mean what you did to make this one, that's what I'm calling it, the crisis caused by the KRS with residents... I'm sorry... [[Assessors.]] That's right, I didn't have a word for it. ...to absolve the assessors, only how you view the initial decision of the KRS to refuse to give these assessors the right... not much on the basis of the application... on the basis of formal charges, not on the basis of e.g. requests for documentation. And like that, I'd say a fresh question. It is often the case that people who speak on this matter and come from outside Poland, foreigners, especially from Western Europe, in their countries the equivalent of the KRS do not have either the equivalent of the KRS, or the judges, if they are mostly, are chosen by other entities and not by the judges themselves. Tell me how you feel about saying that. Are they even right and right? Not much, they are still interfering in legislative proceedings in another country. And one last question. You've invoked... So I noted that the interpretation, as it was called, historical and systemic should have... should be treated as the first, fundamental to the literal interpretation. Well, maybe it is. But I reached the judgment of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court in its full composition of 14 October 2004. And what am I reading there? Well, the doctrine and the caselaw accentuate the primacy of linguistic interpretation over other interpretations, i.e. Systemic and targeted. At the same time, it is rightly accepted that, in exceptional circumstances, the literal meaning of the provision may be waived. This can happen when and now exactly The language interpretation clearly contradicts the content of other standards, leads to ridiculous social or economic consequences, grossly unfair decisions, or is clearly contrary to generally accepted moral standards. Tell me, read the article... I don't remember his number... his lips. 4... in Art. 187... [[The question is a minute.]] [[Mr. Senator, four questions... don't pay any attention to me because I'm watching the situation.]] [[I'm sorry.]] Good. I'm already making up my mind. Tell me exactly, Mr. Spokesman, where is this absurdity of this article and with which, of course, it is contradictory... It is a comparison of constitutional articles with the same legal force.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u68	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u69	There's a few threads here. The first thing we need to be clear is this. I don't mind setting out the procedure for the selection of judges of members of the National Judicial Council on the way, I don't know, some big competition to be full of transparency, a competition to eliminate all, I would say, the signs of the dangers that the senator was talking about, i.e. issues concerning business relations, knowledge, etc. Let me give you an example. High Izbo, recently I received information that my good friend Arkady Buszczenko, who is an outstanding lawyer representing the parties before the European Court of Human Rights, was elected by a kind of public competition for the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I mean, going in such a very open, transparent, transparent direction, but assuming that it is the authorities... that the judges themselves make this choice or their specific representation, is, I think, as acceptable and desirable as possible. Even in our recent history, we had such examples when people were chosen to take important positions. I would like to remind you of the previous 2009 law on the prosecutor's office, which assumed that the Attorney General was elected on a specific... i.e. is elected by the President, but by means of a competition organized by the National Judicial Council. So that the whole procedure of reaching out to who these two candidates were was about your prosecutor Seremet and prosecutor Zalewski, as long as my memory is correct, was very important from a social point of view, because she created an opportunity to discuss not only the candidates, but also the condition of the prosecution in general. So that I am absolutely in favour of such forms, but here we are talking about something completely different, because in fact, we are talking about taking away the right of the judges to co-decide on who is a member of the National Judicial Council. I, of course, ignore with silence the assessment of how the prosecution acted in 2010 and 2015 because this is a completely separate chapter, but it seems to me that the mode of choosing was very interesting and worth remembering about such our state experiences. As for the decision, I will answer in this way: if I were to evaluate the decisions of the National Judicial Council fully positive, I would not take action to resolve this problem. So that I would like to answer that question. With regard to the question of people who do not have the equivalent of the National Judicial Council, it can be said that constitutionalists are people who deal with constitutional systems on a comparative basis, who deal with how different institutions work, what are the rules. Although they sometimes come from countries in which there may not be an equivalent Polish body, they can place our constitutional bodies on the map of other authorities and with the use of common constitutional principles in democratic countries such as the division of power, balance and control of authorities, respect for the constitution, guarantee of the protection of civil rights and freedoms, they are able to draw conclusions from this, taking into account their experience, their substantive knowledge. This is the lesson that one must move at a general level, and not necessarily merely refer to one's own personal experiences. If we were to reason that way, we could say that someone who has not been through a given disease cannot deal with vaccines because he has not gained personal experience. And the last point about the rules of interpretation. It seems to me that in this case we have a completely different situation, because it is not a matter of a system interpretation or historical interpretation replacing a literal interpretation, but of how one can interpret the word "parts" that appear in the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1st paragraph 2: 15 members chosen from among the judges of the Supreme Court... etc. And I am of the opinion that this is the word "outside" if you take into account the constitutional system, the role of the National Judicial Council in the system of authorities, the division of power and the principle that it is supposed to be an organ of balancing power, and compare points 2 and 3, where in the first case there is no talk of the Sejm, and in the second case it says, and still takes into account the historical interpretation... All this leads to the conclusion that it is the judges themselves who should make this choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u70	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Ombudsman, since we already know that the National Judicial Council is an inheritance of Solidarity and not a communist, I would now like you, when answering my questions, to show us what planet we are from and what planet the KRS comes from. First of all, is it true that the U.S. Department of State four times, including the last time yesterday, spoke with concern about changes in Polish judicial legislation? Secondly, how many times and how did the Venice Commission address this issue? Thirdly, has the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe spoken on this matter? When I talk about this, I mean the rule of law in Poland, respect for the rule of law. Another one. Is it true that the OSCE has taken the floor several times in this matter, and the last time we know it was delivered to all the senators a few days ago? Another one. Is it true that the European Parliament and the European Commission expressed their concern about the elimination of judicial independence? And finally, are you familiar with any other institutions, other than the nine institutions mentioned by me, and those representing the rules of the state... i.e. the western circle of legal values that would comment on the risks arising from the judicial laws under consideration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u72	I hope you've been able to write down all your questions. You're welcome to respond now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u73	Okay, thank you very much. Of course, several institutions of other countries spoke about threats to the rule of law in Poland. The U.S. Department of State expresses such views in two ways. One way this is a statement. State Department Yesterday, such a statement was about the penalty imposed on TVN24, but I'm not sure that it was also about the rule of law, because... [[It was, in the spokesperson's statement.]] Okay. But, of course, in July, the State Department's statement was about threats to the rule of law. And the second form of posts are annual reports prepared by the U.S. Department of State, and there Poland included in this regard also appears. The Venice Commission was interested in Poland, in three ways, i.e. on 3 issues. The first issue was the situation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the evaluation of these reforms. The second point is the assessment of telecoms legislation on retention of telecommunications data. The opinion that has basically been ignored and is not done by the government. And now the third... The third element of the assessment, which has a very strong connection with the assessment of the rule of law, is the 2 opinions adopted on 8 December this year, one concerning the assessment of judicial laws, i.e. the amendment of the law on the system of common courts and the draft law... Excuse me, this only concerns the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council and the Act on the Supreme Court, i.e. those projects that have been prepared and presented by the President. But it is also worth paying attention to the second opinion of 8 December, which slightly escaped the attention of the public and concerned the law on the prosecution. The Venice Commission points out that the merger of the Office of the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice in principle is not inappropriate or not questionable, but the extension of the different powers of the Prosecutor General, combined with the fact that the Prosecutor General has an impact on the positions of Presidents of the courts, poses a threat to the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. The state of the rule of law in Poland was also dealt with by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in his positions, as well as during his visit in March 2016, but also in the so-called annual report prepared by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. The Commissioner for Human Rights issued the first report on Poland, was in Poland on 5 He had some initial positions. At the Congress of Civil Rights, which I held on 8 December, he had a speech expressing his deep concern about amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and the Law on the Supreme Court. As regards the OSCE, the OSCE has presented its opinion on this draft law, this opinion is critical. This opinion was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on Monday. But it can also be said that this is not the first position of the OSCE in this regard. This is, of course, also an issue of European Parliament interest, a resolution that has been adopted, but also a procedure that is underway, initiated by the European Commission. While, as far as I am concerned, the KRS Act has not yet been the subject of such a detailed analysis by the European Commission, I would have to check it out. As far as other bodies are concerned, it is certainly important to mention the United Nations Special Rapporteur's mission on judicial independence, which, following his visit, formulated a set of recommendations and reservations, which he is preparing, can be said, a comprehensive, final document. The views and conclusions of the UN Human Rights Committee on the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal should be mentioned. It is also important to mention the general interim review which Poland has passed to the UN, where these issues have also emerged. As far as the other institutions are concerned, I would like to mention two more. There is now an American Bar Association mission in Poland, which is the largest American law organization, which visits Poland, checks and will probably want to prepare a report on threats to the rule of law. I'm talking about the American Bar Association because the position was issued by the ABA in July this year. Finally, I would like to mention a letter which was particularly important to me, although I do not want to diminish the importance of those other posts. This is a letter signed by the Presidents of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic, as well as by the ombudsman of the Czech Republic, Ms Anna Šabatova. This is a letter from July this year, which concerned the then laws on the Supreme Court and about the National Council of Courts and expressed concern about the changes following in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u74	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Because the historical thread was moving in and in questions, and at the beginning of your long speech, I would like to go back to that because this is important. Professor Żaryn just asked what is a continuation of the tradition, whether it is a PRL-Own tradition, whether it is a solidarity tradition. Mr Borusewicz developed this issue. I would like to draw your attention because you said that the national coordination committee of the Justice Department was not a committee in which only judges were present, it was a staff committee. Do you confirm that? There were court officials, court curators, but also the representation of judges. And their basic postulate in 1980... The National Council of the Court of Justice appeared later, first it was a judicial authority, and the essence of the call for a judicial authority at that time was that there would be a force and structure that would not allow the party, then the PZPR, to influence the courts and the independence of the courts. Is that really the case and do you have an example? such knowledge that at that time the provincial court in Gdansk had protection from the works commission This was a formal resolution of the Works Committee of the "Solidarity' shipyard. Lenin So that, as a relatively small structure, he can cope with a great deal of administrative power in certain matters? As for the coordination committee of the Ministry of Justice, the person who represented the national committee of Solidarity and supported this committee was Mr Andrzej Star, who went to individual meetings of this committee, also with Minister Bafia, in order to fight for the judiciary... [[Why are we listening to this...]] [[That's a clear question, Mr. Senator.]] ...about the magistrate's council... Do you confirm that? But as a result, also for the establishment of the National Judicial Council... But this is also an extended question about where it comes from, where these solutions come from and what tradition they refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to play an absolute role as a historian here. I made it very clear that it was... [[There's no need for that.]] ...on which I base my knowledge, this is the analysis that was carried out by Professor Andrzej Friszke in the paper About Poland The democratic rule of law. It is clear from this article that the coordination committee referred to by the senator was in favour of the demands of both the non-removalability of judges and the repeal of the Supreme Court cadence rules, as well as the issue of the winding-up of the rules concerning the appointment of judges in time marked. The point was that they should be called in time unmarked. At that time, it was really planned to establish a professional self-government that would shape the staff, the wage and social-life situation. But later, these quite general demands were transformed and the Round Table had such a postulate for the creation of the National Council of Courts. But I really don't want to compete with knowledge here anymore, because I know that this is a personal experience of many of you in this room and that this is not my role. However, I would like to remind you of this because I think that yesterday during the debate it did not sound enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u77	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll just remind you of the sleep. Senator Anna Kurska, who was in the judge's office and fought for this judge's council, lost this job in the martial law, and today is the anniversary. Sorry about that. Excuse me.]] Let's move on to further questions. Senator Staron has a voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Let's highlight... Mr. Ombudsperson, you're a little bit of a push for this statement, Mr. Ombudsperson, because it was not until the second law that I was about to speak. Mr Ombudsperson, we are discussing the justice system today, and you are representing citizens, and you are calling yourself an advocate of civil rights. And we're also talking about the National Judicial Council. Chapter 2 of this law gives this council, you can say, unlimited competence. It will depend on this advice, and it should depend on what our judiciary looks like. This is a matter of first and foremost the choice of disciplinary representatives, the issue of ethics, the care of ethics and training. It is this council that really decides and it formulates the system of the judiciary. It's in her hands that the justice system really is. [[Senator, please formulate the question.]] That's why it's my question, and maybe a little bit of a long introduction. I've been dealing with people's affairs for years. These people have been writing to this advice for years, and they've been writing about different kinds of judges, but they've always been unanswered. And, Mr. Ombudsman, I have these two questions, maybe from downstairs, from these people on this side, but I would like to know myself. First question. Mr. Ombudsperson, you stress very strongly that as you were elected... I was on the Platform at the time. You stress very strongly that you are a political choice, but you act unpolitically, you are independent. And praise be to you that it is. But you also strongly stress that if the Sejm, I hope, chooses this qualified majority of the 3/5 National Judicial Council, if this happens, it will be deprived of this condition. This is the first question, a little bit towards the questions that are being asked here: how can we be sure that, however, on the basis of independence or even the independence of judges, there may be some damage? We're talking about your situation exactly. And second question. This is an issue that bothers me even more, because I've heard all sorts of things. I believe that much more needs to be changed, e.g. Code of Civil Procedure. I've never heard you question a court of law. And for me, it's even a curious one judge at a secret meeting. But let's save this for the second bill discussion. What should it be, Mr. Spokesman? Should it be as it is today? Is it about keeping it that way? And people don't want that. I mean, over 80% of people... I see these avalanches every day asking for help. They say what problems are, and unfortunately these are not just problems regarding the duration of the procedure. They are much wider, and they come not from the competence of the council, but maybe from the lack of reaction to various kinds of things, but of course not only, absolutely. So how should it be? Is that how it is today? What would you change? And why are you here? Let's stress the Ombudsman's position at all questions the change? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u79	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u80	Dear Senator, thank you for the question. First of all, and I repeat this again, I have said it many times, and in July, and now I do not question the need for changes in the judiciary. I do not question the need to make changes, too, perhaps when it comes to the issue. greater representativeness of the judges of the lower courts in the National Judicial Council. I am not questioning that perhaps this should lead to greater efficiency in the functioning of this body. However, I believe that the situation in which the Sejm is entrusted with the right to appoint members of the judges of the National Judicial Council may pose a threat to the independence of the courts in the long term. Because we cannot look at all of this only and only from the point of view of the law discussed here, we must also take into account the adopted law on the system of common courts, also the Law on the Supreme Court, which may be adopted in a moment, and it can be said, that the process of shifting, a certain centralization of power, which at the same time, I believe, is not accompanied by strengthening the judicial authority, as this main shield for the citizen, but on the contrary: this process is progressing in such a direction that the police, prosecutors and special forces are gradually increasing their power over the citizens. And in a situation where we see such a process, these guarantees of independence are particularly important. And I believe that it is my role, as an ombudsman, to talk about this, that is to say, to show a process that is taking place, not only to focus on individual regulations, but also to place these regulations in a specific context. That's what my position is, not another. I would like to believe, Senator, that those who will be appointed to the National Judicial Council in the framework of this procedure will be distinguished, noble, excellent and that we will have no doubt about it. But, unfortunately, I believe that there can also be those darker scenarios in which this choice will be made in such a way as to undermine the credibility of those appointed to the National Courts Council. With regard to the responsibility of the National Judicial Council, let us stress here: in accordance with the law on the system of common courts, administrative supervision is exercised by the Minister of Justice. The Minister is responsible, for example, for the fact that there are no judges, e.g. at the District Court in Volomin Now that we're talking about an average citizen, Where I'm sure you could use some extra judges. Because it's the Minister of Justice who announces the competition decisions. And here the National Judicial Council can play a role in activating, supporting or eliminating certain abuses. But the main responsibility lies with the legislator In terms of how it shapes the general regulatory environment for the functioning of the courts and for the Minister as the administrative supervisor. What can be changed? It seems to me that if we could create an atmosphere of mutual trust and serious discussion on justice, we might be able to get universal agreement on what is happening in justice. and above all: how and at what time This Regulation should be amended accordingly. However, I feel that this trust is seriously lacking. And I think it's wrong that the discussion on judicial reform started with the National Court and the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u82	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson! I would like to say that I am touched by your deep and extensive knowledge of these issues. I'm not a lawyer, but I was beginning to wonder if you're using this knowledge in one direction only. Because all I hear is criticism of what's supposed to be, which is the KRS Act. I opened the Internet for myself, and here's what I want to tell you. In 2016, the Accounting and Personnel Platform, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers concluded that the KRS judgments were pending for 6 months and that this was a threat to the safety of economic trade. To this, the spokesman for civil matters of the District Court in Warsaw explained that this is due to lack of staff and formal errors in documents. Don't you think there should be an initiative on your part to support this bill in the parliamentary debate? Since the previous one is inefficient and we want to improve something, I think it's your duty to get involved in the improvement of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u83	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for your spokesperson? I can't hear you. Thank you. So that's probably the last question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u84	Thank you very much. I have a feeling there may have been some misunderstanding here. I suspect... I know this accession of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, this is an important organization that participates in public discussions. Perhaps in this case it was the registration procedures, i.e. the National Court Register, and the fact that the expectation of a change in the company's statutes, concerning e.g. registration of new economic operators takes too long, which may jeopardise economic turnover. These are important issues, because the speed of the National Court Register depends very much, for example, on the place of Poland in rankings in such a report Doing Business, i.e. how to do business in Poland. It seems to me that the Act on the National Judicial Council does not apply to these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u86	I'm not in the middle of a question, I'm just saying that the Senate's record doesn't include false information. Mr. Senator was kind enough to tell you about the KRS verdicts. So there's no confusion: the National Judicial Council doesn't issue any judgments. 'Cause that speech came out of... So I, Jerzy Fedorovich, the lawyer, correct this statement. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u87	Good. There are no more questions for your spokesperson. Mr. Spokesman, thank you very much. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I have information that the representative of the President, Mr Paweł Mucha, wishes to speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u88	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to speak briefly, only by reference to these 2 speeches. I do not want to start a debate in the area where Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek had already given an answer yesterday, but I would like to refer to those arguments which had been made, or to those statements which were directly referring originally to the presidential project and today to the legislation already adopted. I'll start with fundamental issues. As regards the reform of the National Judicial Council, we are discussing the reform of the judicial council. As has been said and presented, there are very different models in Europe for the appointment of both judicial councils and judges. So this debate has nothing to do with the basis of democracy, the basis of the republican system. There are solutions in the world and in Europe which provide for the appointment of judges directly by execution, there are solutions which provide for the system of judicial self-creation, in Europe there are solutions which provide for the participation of representatives of Parliament, whether elected or not from judges. In European systems, these models are really diverse. In fact, it was very well here that your senator raised the fact that such a different regulation does not constitute a basis for anyone to make a reasonable allegation that a given solution excludes a country from a family of democratic states or from a family of European countries. [[The European Union!]] And this is a fundamental matter. As far as reform is concerned, it was very much mentioned earlier, I will not quote an opinion, in the Seym I quoted the opinion of Professor Anna Młynarska-Sobachewska. We can make this opinion available if we need it. As regards the question of the constitutional legitimacy of this council, we have an indication of the provision of the Article. 187 constitutions. And I will stress what in many opinions of specialists and constitutionalists was indicated that the reform of the National Council of Courts falls within the framework of the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This provision provides: the system, scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Board and the way in which its members are elected shall be governed by the law. And aptly here it was raised... As a supporter of the Derivative concept of interpretation of the law, the most widely accepted in Polish case law, let me say this: first of all, linguistic interpretation, and then, if we want to confirm the result of linguistic interpretation, we reach for a directive of functional interpretation. We have a principle that indicates that the interpretation ofcessat in claris, but these language interpretation directives are always applied first and then there are functional interpretation directives. And there is no doubt that according to the introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to the article. 4, which constitutes the principle of sovereignty of the nation, and also in accordance with the provision of Article. 104 first sentence, which states that Members are representatives of the nation, such a reform, which is that at the law level, the choice of judges by judges is replaced by the choice of judges by representatives of the nation, i.e. by Members, is absolutely acceptable, and this is a matter of a convention. As we pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to the project, as the Minister also said, the President of the Republic of Poland is in such a position that the current model did not work out. It has not been successful with regard to the practical functioning of the National Courts of Justice, as regards the assumptions that some judges have accepted. I'd say very noble in intentions. Because in practice it turned out that neither the system itself was cleansed, nor the environment itself will clean itself, and the experience of life teaches that this social control, civil control, is a very desirable, very necessary thing. With regard to the question of shortening the term of office, as this was also the case with appealing... We have a ruling from the Constitutional Court. Nor can we reason in the case of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal that most of the judgments are respected, but this judgment, because it is given by the Court in a specific composition, which we do not accept, will be ignored or we will argue with what the Court does. What is it entitled to do under Article? 188 constitutions in the area of its cognition have settled. I would like to point out that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 20 June 2017 in Case K 5/17 makes it clear that the current regulation concerning the selection of judges to the National Council of Courts is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Minister rightly referred to this judgment, also referring to the issue of the K 40/07 signature and stressing that, in this case, we are dealing with specific circumstances which justify the need for this reform. It is also incorrect to refer to the analogys relating to the term of office of other constitutional authorities, because there we do not deal with such a situation as to make the law define unconstitutionally certain elements related to the joint term of office. As far as the President of the Republic of Poland is concerned, this analogy is totally inadequate and inappropriate. Firstly, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland expressly states in which situations the term of office of the President of the Republic of Poland expires, it is simply the result of the Constitution. Secondly, there are no circumstances like those mentioned here. Regarding issues related to the guarantee of multiparty choice expressed in the Act... Of course, a different model was originally included in the submission of the President. As a result of the amendments, this has been changed, but all the time, it necessarily falls within the scope of the Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. I return to the fact that the procedure for selection of judges is governed by the law Because there is this guarantee of multipartyity, also in these regulations, i.e. this idea or intention... Because many speeches have tried to interpret the assumptions or intentions of the President and whether they are still in the bill. Yes, they are modelled by these guarantees concerning the selection by qualified majority of 3/5 votes, and in the second step of the election by an absolute majority of votes, but also indicating the guarantee if the opposition has such a will, which consists in this The Minister also discussed these provisions. That a maximum of 9 candidates may be submitted by 1 parliamentary club. I also point out very clearly that the matter which is the subject of the High House is not a matter of European Union law. There is no law of the European Union in order for judges to be appointed. With regard to the historical argument, the main argument that was raised here just now, I find it inconclusive that it refers to the situation in 1989 and we have to refer to what this situation looks like in 2017. We have experience with the malfunctioning of the KRS and the lack of representativeness in this entity, also indicating this It's an example. That there are 15 judges by choice, and only one judge from the level of regional courts, and let's be perfectly honest about convincing the public... One of the senators also asked about public opinion polls. Let me remind you that one of the journals carried out such a study, which originally indicated that more than 70% Poles expect reform of the justice system. I'm not going to advertise a press title that I've been describing in detail, giving data based on survey polls. And then we had the situation of popular support of Poles for the President's decision to refer laws to be re-examined. So, as I say, if we are talking about the historical argument, I have the honour of sitting next to the Minister Zofia Romaszewska together with Minister Surówka-Pasek. It is clear to us that today there is a need for reform of the justice system. If we are to build this house from the foundations, the foundation of this change is the reform of the justice system concerning the functioning of the National Courts. And it is not possible to fully reform the justice system, without also making reception of these experiences about the functioning of the National Courts and without making certain changes. As far as this constitutional argument is concerned, I have already said that, in our view, he is wrong. I have heard many times here that reform is unconstitutional. I don't share that position. We say very clearly that we do not share such allegations. We assume they're not accurate. It was very well pointed out that the choice of the body was the attention of Marshal Stanisław Karczewski It does not determine how this body will work in practice when it has constitutional or statutory powers to be an independent body. And this example of an analogy in terms of function or position, the body of the Ombudsman, is, in my opinion, appropriate. We draw attention very clearly to the fact that directly from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland results in the independence of the judges included in the definition of apoliticity of judges. The judges will continue to sit in the National Council of Courts, except that judges not elected by judges, but judges elected with reinforced social legitimacy by representatives of the people who are Members of the Sejm. And, of course, with regard to these guarantees of external and internal independence, these are issues that have already been discussed, but no one denies this important role of judges here, only they will be judges with a reinforced mandate to sit in the National Courts. About the potential threat issue... There was such a voice about the fact that we are spoken differently and because we are spoken differently, judges can behave differently in Europe. I'd say there's no legal basis for that. This is such a situation that we first speak ourselves, in a political way, making certain assessments that we have certain reservations. This opinion is repeated, and then we try to give the impression that there are legal grounds for any European court to reason in terms of the threat of independence of courts or independence of judges in Poland. There is no legal basis for this, and there is no rule. The opinion of the Venice Commission, the advisory opinion, is not the main determinant of the action of the Polish Sejm or the Polish Senate. Of course, these arguments must be considered, their adequacy must be weighed. Forgive me, but if the opinion arises in the course of the work of the Sejm and does not refer to several dozen amendments tabled to the Act, the question arises as to whether this is a position which examines substantively the progress of the work and the various options which are presented, whether it is a general statement of a nature, I would say rather debatable as to the reliability of this position. As regards the question of this argument, which was also raised here, as regards the differences between this law which the President of the Republic of Poland vetoed, and the law which has now been adopted by the Polish Sejm and is being prosecuted by the High Chamber, let's take the first differences from the shore: the procedure for submitting candidates, the powers of a group of 2 000 citizens, the absence of other legal environments, including prosecutors who would be entitled to submit candidates. In addition, of course, to 25 judges in active condition. Online transmission of meetings, lack of division by assembly, circular voting, diversity of compositions of individual case opinions teams, other regulations concerning the termination of the term of office of the members of the National Courts, extension of the deadline for the KRS to object to the duties of judges. I have pointed out 9 differences, and this is without this fundamental difference in the fact that at that time we were faced with a situation of choice by a simple majority, and now, as I said, we are expecting a qualified majority, by a majority of 3/5 votes, and in the second step an absolute majority of votes. And there are all the conditions that have been mentioned here. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, for us there is no doubt that Poles expect reform of the justice system, and these changes regarding the functioning of the National Court Council, which is the Polish judicial council, are a step in the right direction, are a step in the right direction. All these general remarks, comments on the threat of democracy due to the process of this law, are inadequate. I take this argument as bringing in a case, please don't be angry. . ad absurd. We're ready to have a substantive discussion on specifics, but we have a full conviction... Because here there was also a charge that this trust would be undermined by the fact that this choice would be made by Members. Politicians are being talked about, there have been many opinions here: politicians will choose judges. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not specify who is to choose them, and we say this: if we look at the constitutional provisions, we will understand that there is no doubt that representatives of the nation can do so on behalf of the people. Members can make this choice, and let us see politics as a reasonable concern for the common good. Let us not be afraid that politicians will make the choice. They will select independent judges just so that the National Judicial Council has a better social mandate, a better democratic mandate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u89	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the discussion in a moment. I just want to let you know that the ombudsman... [[There were no questions.]] ...was involved in the written answer to the question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. At this point there is no possibility to ask questions to the Minister, because yesterday Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek answered the questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, please be quiet. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Senator Fedorovich! [[I don't...]] Dear Minister, Dear guests! This is another discussion. Indeed, as one of the Senators of Law and Justice noted yesterday, we have been talking for a very long time, and it should not be any surprise, and the mode is natural, because we have been talking about these laws for six months now. Only every time these laws come to us, to the Senate, at the last minute and every time we discuss at night, and this time even happened the night before December 13th, which is very unnecessary. I don't know, I think somebody angryly prepared a gift like this for the creators of both drafts of the bill, that it's December 13th that we have to talk about something like this. [[Senator Jan Rulewski keeps a card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz upstairs]] This date is misconstrued and this situation is misconstrued. No matter how much the Minister from the President's office would have enchanted reality, we know more or less what this bill is all about. First of all, I would like to address my fellow Senators of the Law and Justice, the Minister of Fly, the representatives of the Minister of Justice, and say that we have talked about this repeatedly in this Chamber and that no one has... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but it bothers me. I'm used to being disturbed by my piss buddies, but if my friends are bothering me, it's just bothering me. [[Voice from the room: I'm so sorry.]] You're welcome. [[...with attention.]] And the piss buddies. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. [[With a lot of attention.]] Thank you very much. [[But without understanding.]] Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think it's paradoxically... [[Mr. Senator, that's a highly inappropriate remark, really.]] [[But it wasn't about your marshal.]] [[Part of the senators of the Civic Platform Club hold up a postcard with the inscription: FREE JUDGES, FREE SELECTIONS, FREE POLAND.]] I think paradoxically, we all understand each other around here. And we understand what the rulers are talking about, and the rulers understand more or less what the opposition means, and sometimes they can even share its arguments. And we all remember that indeed President Duda, during the campaign, promised that there would be order with the courts, and that President Jarosław Kaczyński had promised it before. That's why we're doing this. If we were to do the so-called justice system. order, it would not be so bad, after all and opposition, and the state, and no one is currently judging the justice system uncritically, there are no such people. I think everyone has some comments. I would like to say that not only our justice system, but also the various aspects of justice in the world that you referred to have flaws. We all know that. Including the American system, etc. And our system seemed pretty coherent. The point is, of course, it can be converted into another, and that's acceptable, but it can't be completely devastated. That's it. That's the point: Reforming is something other than devastating, and here we're dealing with devastation, for example. with no respect for the professional personnel that are at the moment. With the KRS, it may be less obvious, because there will actually be a slightly different question of term, but in the courts it will already be You can see great when we throw out well-educated judges, quite young people who could still work for 10 more years. And we throw them out just to put them in their place, and let's not be afraid of it, because that's what it's prepared for. Like I said, we tried to prove it to ourselves. Honestly, instead of trying to personalize Mr Bodnar's spokesperson, you should have proved to us and told us about how fantastic the justice system will look in a moment, because these 2 laws will bring about fantastic development of justice in Poland, there will be no queues in courts, etc. However, these 2 reforms do not concern this at all. They are de facto not about the citizen and, as you well know... We can have that next year... We even wondered if we could write something like this into the bill, i.e. in-depth information on how the situation has improved. But it will not improve, just as it has not improved in the Constitutional Court, where the number of cases dealt with has fallen and it turned out that the Constitutional Tribunal is slowly turning into a facade institution. We wouldn't want independence, the independence of the courts to be something facaded, and so that we would have beautiful buildings, and in it people who would somehow be party dependent on something. Of course, the judges will be independent in their conscience, they will swear that they will act in accordance with the Constitution. However, you simply want to throw away those who are now, and you want to appoint free judges who will be appointed by the majority. That's what you care about. And that was seen in the case of the Court. The most disturbing was the Constitutional Tribunal, because it directly interfered and could stop the laws. You've got your president, and, apparently, he's working very well with you. I'd like to, uh, actually, congratulate Mr. Ziobra here because there's nothing to congratulate Mr. President. He just gave up and failed the people who went out on the streets in July. He just let these people down. He seemed to be a constitutional guardian, and he turned out to be a notary. Unfortunately, that's what the sovereign says. That's what the president says about you. And I think most people... I, for example, do not yet, because I always give a very large amount of confidence, but most people no longer believe you, do not believe that you will stand up for the Constitution. And the Court, as I said, is de facto gone, because it is already a facade institution. So, as I said, let's not call the devastation of something reform. There's no reform here, it's just a switch to yours. That's it, that's it. [[Part of the senators of the Civic Platform club set a postcard on their desktops with the inscription: FREE JUDGES, FREE SELECTIONS, FREE POLAND]] I would also like to talk about a certain aspect that was not discussed in this discussion and is extremely important directly for citizens. If the courts are party, if there is such an impression, as at the moment, that the prosecution is also party, if the courts are equally party, then every man will eventually realize that it will affect foreign investors. After all, the risk of economic activity, investment, but also the risk of civic activity will increase, because each of these people standing here yesterday... And I'd like to thank them very much for that. Because every one of those people out there is risking their lives right now. They are dragged to the police, no prosecutor will help them, no one will intercede for them, and maybe the court will punish them in a moment, because he will simply obey and be a party court. So that the risk of civic activity increases. And also media. Well, ladies and gentlemen, who's this TVN guy who's been punished this high now? [[To the courthouse.]] ...if the courts are elected by Mr. Peterovich? [[Oh, that's gonna appeal...]] Yes, by Mr. Peterovich. Well, let's just say it, because it's a face... You said here you wanted to decommunize something. And Mr. Piotrowicz will now draw up a list of judges, and the state in the Sejm will raise their hand and vote in favour of these judges to the KRS or to... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...or the Supreme Court. [[It's been ten minutes.]] Thank you. I'm gonna take a break, and then I'm gonna ask for five more minutes and I'm gonna finish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u91	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Chairman of the National Judicial Council. Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child... I mean, civil rights! 'Cause there's no child's attorney today. Maybe it's a shame... [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] [[He went to court.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the National Judicial Council is, as a matter of fact, expressing certain standards that try to preserve the judicial environment through its local government. Because, as a justification for change, there are often negative examples of the actions of courts or judges, which happen in every environment, including in the parliamentarians' community, it must be said very strongly at this point that the work of judges, their efforts, their caselaw, is a gigantic work, often done against many adversities and generally very honestly. There are over 15 million cases that judges are working on today. It is not difficult to find dissatisfied with judgments. There are certainly more than half of them, because the court has to take a stand against the complainants. But today's an opportunity. We should always start with this if we are thinking about the good functioning of the courts To express respect for all judges who work honestly, well, in the sense of their independence and on the basis of law. Also, the National Judicial Council as a body, as a constitutional body, which here, in the Senate, so to speak, we are reviewing, examining its reports, giving an exam. It has to be made clear. Although there have been a lot of questions, it has not been proved, it has not been found, no one has done so, that the National Judicial Council in its current composition is working badly. That's what I'm saying to the applicants. Here's a false argument, a false argument. The KRS shall carry out its task properly, report it to Parliament and give an examination. Of course, we have a lot of work to do to help judges perform their duties. Because it's the courts that need to be fixed, not the judges. Let us remind you that this is the role of the government. That's what the ombudsman said here. This is the role of the government. And if the government, the president, is so determined to improve the functioning of the courts, where are these laws? Where are the proposals? Are we to consider that there are over 800 vacancies in judicial positions as an attempt to improve? Or is it that almost two years have been delayed in calling asses? Was that an action to improve the functioning of the judiciary? Because of all this, 10%. the cases have not been dealt with, 1,5 million. This is the card. Government and President action on the functioning of the judiciary. What could be the real impact of the bill? I don't go into legal matters, not even constitutionally. What was feared by the creators of the National Judicial Council is a redecisive, the return of Polish courts, the courts of the independent Republic to what was before 1989. Minister, this is the security you want to take off. This is the last moment for you to say that there are no threats and that this security can be removed. An example of the importance of nominations for the independence and functioning of institutions is the Constitutional Court. You wouldn't have to see what happened to the Court in order to put these thesis here, looking at the High House, looking the senators in the eye. Ladies and gentlemen, the politicisation of the choice of judges is the start of the chain of change first in the Supreme Court and then also in relation to nominations as regards individual courts. This is the whole chain that connects with the changes made, in my opinion, in violation of the Constitution in the field of universal courts and proposals concerning the Supreme Court. This isn't a single case. She shows how the process of dismantleing independent courts is taking place in Poland. This is the way that, according to what we heard yesterday at the meeting with Prof. Strzembosz, makes room for authoritarian governments. Because after the courts, you're starting to think about tampering with elections and local governments to take over full power. This is the quest... Of course, all citizens will feel this effect, as you have said here, and earlier President of the National Council, Judge Zawistowski. They showed here together what it would end with, what chance would we have if, from the same way I say so, there would be a ZUS official with whom we would complain, and a citizen who would resent him? What chance will we have when we have a dispute with the IRS when the entrepreneur has a dispute with the IRS if both officials, because then the judges will be more and more civil servants... Probably if Senator Piotr Zientarski were here, he would recall the times in which he learned the law, when the courts were there to solemnly approve the indictment. That's what happened. I ask you, what arrogance and shoes it takes to say that all the international and Polish bands, the greatest authorities, the State Department, the Venice Commission... that these are people who don't know the law? The Minister will tell them what it's like. Right? That those professors from the Venice Commission or some other government, we know better than that. Is it any other way to call it ignoring the interests of the Republic of Poland? We can't be inconvenient with everyone. We cannot afford to be a black sheep in the European Union. That is not true, Minister, that there are no provisions to which the Union may appeal. Are you saying that if they gather on 20 December and debate the rule of law in Poland, they will do so illegally? Then why don't we make them their rights?! [[Applause]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] I'm almost done. I wanted to say in my first speech that the politicisation of courts is hitting Poland's interests, hitting companies' interests, hitting citizens' interests. This is not going to happen overnight, it's going to happen as it is with the Constitutional Court. Today we already have these experiences. Less and less decisions and orders. And this is the future of the Polish judiciary. [[Time's up...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u93	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear guests! I'd like to say a few words to Minister Fly. What I've been saying here is so clumsy, saying that you have to listen with understanding... I think it's worth it, Minister. You may have different opinions, but the whole point of success is listening with understanding and presenting arguments. Minister, if you're saying... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe I'll wait till the minister's done. I don't know if you have a split personality, can listen and talk at the same time, but if you don't mind my asking... [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I have.]] Here. Yes? Good. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Divisibility of attention.]] I just wanted to make sure, Minister. Divisibility of attention. [[It's not a split personality, it's a division of attention.]] But this is a quote from the cabaret. It's for those who don't understand It's from the 1960s. The guy pretended to have a split personality... Well, fellas, you didn't live in those days, and you don't remember the fantastic cabarets that said that. Speaking of which, Minister, if you wish to hand over power to people who have a mandate from citizens, elected people, representatives of the nation... I'd like to present you with a recent study. You were talking about some of the research. That's what Kantar did. One of the weeklys publishes them, but I don't give a name not to advertise the weekly. And that's because the firefighters are most trusted by 87% of them. percentage, depending on the period. Judges Approximately 40.44% ... And at the gray end, with 20% support, there are the chosen people of the nation. Such a sovereign trusts us, Minister. And you're saying we want to entrust control of the courts to people who have confidence? No, you just had to choose, so society chose. But trust is not what we enjoy. And therefore, please do not use the argument that it will be more civic supervision of the courts. What do you want, what kind of supervision do you want? After all, in your speech, the Ombudsman said what instruments of control exist over judges and KRS. I think I understand what you're trying to control. You want to control... Well, that's how subconscious I understand. I think you're gonna be protesting what I say, but I think you're gonna want to control the judgments the court gives. I mean, what if the P.S.A.'s office gets a lot of work done, gets a lot of work done, the press gets a conviction, and the guy gets acquitted in court? It would be a waste of money. In the Polish People's Republic, as Professor Strzembosz said yesterday at the meeting with us... Prof. Strzembosz said that he knew such judgments, which in past years were paid, rewarded and influenced. For the fight against such phenomena, Professor Lech Kaczyński has been awarded the award. For this fight and success... And in the end, the professor said this: and today I have to fight for the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, if the European Commission, the Council of Europe and all those whom Senator Klich has mentioned here are not an authority for you... because you say that it does not matter at all and that we will now be the messiah of the peoples of Europe and we will determine what a legal being should be like in Europe. I want to tell you that I think you're wrong. If that's what the European Union says, which you have absolutely no respect for, the Venice Commission, etc... today even the U.S. Department says. Our closest ally in the alliance and fight for free media says this: dear government in Poland, think about what you are doing; after all, this fight against media is not a picture from a free country. If, as part of this good cooperation, they want to sell us the dearest Patriots of those they have sold so far, that means that you are leading a very good, clear and, so to speak, a beloved policy towards our ally, the United States. Minister, if you're talking about the fact that citizens, the sovereign, as you love to call him, were expecting these changes... Minister, I'll read you the latest research from the same weekly. I don't give a name not to advertise it. [[Sounds familiar.]] 57% The respondents say this: the courts should become a fully independent, separate authority. What does this mean by separate authority? It's not the kind that political power proposes and chooses, it's the separate power. And those declarations... I'm about to give you some examples of this judicial independence that you want to build. A 31% The defendants say that the power that has won must be governed by the courts. And this is the part of society that accepts your way of doing things and methods. And they must be addressed: loved ones, not for such Poland and not for such a change in 2015 you voted. You voted to improve social conditions, and this is PiS. He has fulfilled his promises. But did you vote in favour of Poland, in which freedom is taken, democracy, in which what is related to free media is limited? Well, if... sometimes, maybe not for the hen, but if I can't sleep, I'll watch TV, TVP Info. And then I'm gonna recharge like Kargul and Pawlak in a fence dispute. All this time on this television, you're loading up information about judges who did something wrong, so it's up to them now, so to speak, to give under the boots of the chosen nation with 20% support, acceptance. And now, ladies and gentlemen, two words about what this kind of action will cause mean for us, for Poland. If all the institutions that Senator Klich mentioned in the discussion speak with great concern not that we have no right here... I am also speaking to Senator Terminski; I think it was a very nice discussion, Senator. Well, we as Poles have the right to change, to create our own model, but it is only such a matter that we do so in accordance with a certain political culture, a culture of law-making and ensuring that the document is compatible with the law. It's about all the stuff that rained during the discussion, and I'm not gonna repeat it. And that's when I'm on the senator's side. Such a document in the form of judicial laws should be drawn up for two to three years. How was it? Well, it was a sad sight of you going to this briefing at Nowogrodzka, this series of sad people going... Listen, this is how it's gonna be. And you come out even sadder. This is what it looked like, Minister, to consult on the draft law of the President. In September, there was a project, and then Mr. President, together with Mr. Jarosław, President of Law and Justice, agreed something there, there was a discussion. Then you enter together with Mr.Peterowicz and discuss again, discuss... And what are the Senators of Law and Justice to do? [[Put it on.]] I'm not gonna explain it to you. Just listen to what the protesters said yesterday. [[You can do it again! You can still do it!]] Senator! You can still do it! Senator! You can do it again! And you don't have to do what those gentlemen have agreed. And if you're listening with understanding, that's why my point is that you listen with understanding. You will answer this: okay, maybe it would be worth it if we, as an House of reflection and reflection, rather than a House of smoke, prepared our own judicial project, worked on it for two years, maybe a year is enough. And for the century of regaining independence, we should bring as an House of reflection and reflection a beautiful project, discoursed, agreed and accepted by society. Because what is happening in Poland affects very badly not only the image of Poland, but what concerns its success. A divided nation is a nation that is about to fall. And if you think that at night, December 13th, you will pass these laws, and those people who protest, silence, silence or scare... No! Even this thousand requests and proceedings against protesters will not suffocate these protests. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few examples of what...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u95	Mr. Senator, time's up. [[Is it over? Mr. Marshal, can I have the last thread so soon?]] One sentence. [[I'd like to...]] It's just that the thread could take a few minutes, and you... Sign up again, please. [[Okay, then, Mr. Marshal, I'll sign up again.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Getting ready for this speech... I'd like to paradoxically defend the president a little bit. Why defend the President? Today, we are critical of the bill that was tabled by the President. Well, of course, there were parliamentary amendments that really changed it, but the bill was presidential. In the meantime, it wasn't the president who initiated the whole thing. Well, let's remember what happened in the first half of this year. In fact, I define the whole thing, the whole thing that's going on around this so-called thing. reform as a war. I call it a war between the Minister of Justice, Mr. Ziobra, and the President. In this war, the Minister of Justice wanted, after he got the DA's office, after he became a prosecutor-general with great potential to interfere with every little act of the prosecutor, including giving him orders, taking cases... It wasn't enough for you, Minister Ziobra. He needed judicial authority. But the only way he could get that judicial authority was after he proposed the so-called. reforms. And we remember that first bill. In this first draft law, everything was simple, I'd say. Sorry about the colloquialism. It's like the construction of a cepa. National Judicial Council? Simply chosen by the majority, as we speak, the sovereign chose the majority, so the majority will choose the National Judicial Council. Supreme Court? We're gonna wipe everybody out at all. We're gonna wipe everybody out, we're gonna get some new ones. At the same time, Minister Ziobro put the president there formally, of course. There was a president... as a notary, as a notary of Minister Ziobra. I understand that the president couldn't stand it anymore, and he expressed it by publicly voicing both laws. And that's actually where it started. But all the time, the answer to the question of why it's all being done was unclear. I mean, in Mr. Ziobra's actions, it was clear. But all this argument that we need to change the way we choose members of the National Judicial Council, because this will lead to an improvement in the functioning of the courts... It showed up today, it stayed, it's like, I'd say, the rest of it. And the main topic was to take control of the courts. And what happens next? Mr. President vetoes, promises to prepare his own projects. I'm already skipping the problem with this preparation, with the consultation, I'm leaving it And projects appear in the Sejm. What's going on? However, Minister Ziobro does not stop trying to gain and take control of the National Council of Courts first and then of the Supreme Court, because it is the National Council of Courts that will then elect judges to vacate the positions of Supreme Court judges. How can he do that? Of course, I'm preparing amendments. One of the major amendments that, fortunately, no longer exists was that 25 prosecutors can submit candidates. I have no doubt that Minister Ziobro hoped that the parliamentary majority would accept his proposal, not the President's proposal. The president was very disturbed by this process and it was very impressive, perhaps also to President Kaczyński, and certainly to Minister Ziobra, certainly. So 25 prosecutors were able to submit any number of candidates, from which Mr Piotrowicz later... By the way, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Piotrowicz will not point to anyone. Senator Piotrowicz is only from following orders. And he does it from A to Z no matter what they are. After that, Mr Piotrowicz will put on this list the people they will point out to him, and they will be the people of Minister Ziobra. It would have ended anyway. I'm going to say immodestly that I've sent, I would say, a certain way, namely through social media, a warning to the President on this matter. I don't know if it's because or for another reason, but the next day this amendment was withdrawn. I take it I have a part in this. Today, Minister. I'm sending this to the Minister of Flies. This fight is not over. After all, even though that amendment has disappeared, it is not clear from this law that the Delegated Judges cannot submit candidates or that they cannot be candidates themselves. On the contrary, it seems that they can. Therefore, I would like to say immediately that I am proposing two amendments. One amendment does not allow these judges to combine work in the Ministry of Justice and sit in the National Judicial Council, and the other does not allow these judges to be part of a group of 25 judges who report to the candidate because they are not judges. They could be part of a group of 2,000 citizens if they wanted to. Those are the two amendments I'd like to make. And this is a test. This is a test, Minister. Because I'm really afraid that... I have to say that I judge the President's intentions much higher than Minister Ziobra's, much higher. I think with the choice... Where it depends on him, he'll be much more objective. Unfortunately, these solutions, which are still in place at the moment, may lead to the President having nothing to say except that he will establish the Supreme Court rules and will be able to elect from among the five candidates the President, the first President. This National Judicial Council will then choose about 60% of its membership, because after taking into account this retirement age it will probably remain 40%. So she'll be choosing 60% of the squad. And this is where I come to the point that we have been talking about here, whether they can choose Members, whether they can choose Members, whether it is compatible, incompatible, etc. Minister Mucha, in my opinion... Well, my opinion is the least important here. It's just against the constitution and there's nothing to insist on. It's already been here... President Zawistowski spoke precisely about this, linked it to other articles. I still want to quote the authentic interpretation. I just reached out because I was a member of the constitutional committee... And by the way, from what I've checked, I'm today the only member of the Constitutional Commission who has remained in parliament, in the Seym and the Senate. This case was not discussed in detail because it was clear to everyone. There's something about the law. You know that better than anyone. That what is clear is not explained. There is a passage that shows why this matter was clear. Well, in the discussion before the vote on the approval of this article, Mr Stanisław Rogowski, who was a member of the committee, says this: I have a question for experts on the composition of the National Judicial Council. Next: If we have foreseen the existence of administrative courts in the relevant article, shouldn't the administrative courts be added in the article on the national council after the expression of common courts? And further: the point is that the judges of these courts should have the right to choose their representatives for the National Courts Council. The point was that in the first version there were no administrative courts, there were only common courts, the Supreme Court, and therefore none of the administrative courts would be in the National Council of Courts. That is why the Member asked whether this should be extended so that the judges of these courts could elect their representatives. And it was an obvious formulation, no one questioned it, no one said: but, wait a minute, it is not said that they will choose judges, etc. It was just clear to everyone. I'm already ignoring the opinion of all these institutions... That's what we've been talking about. Well, really, ladies and gentlemen, you can't say there's a philosopher's stone here. But if we could change the constitution and move towards parliamentarians' choice, would that be a drama? Well, in the shape in which it is in this moment, it would be, as I said, because the composition of the list of candidates can be partly disturbing. However, if it were said that judges, and only judges, elect candidates, and that they choose more candidates than there are seats, and parliamentarians among these judges choose 15 members of the National Court Register, then I would not consider that this is some deviation from the rules, absolutely. Unfortunately, it's not. Yes, he chooses 25 active judges, he chooses 25 delegated judges, because they are not excluded here unless we accept the amendment, and he chooses 2,000 more citizens. These 2,000 citizens sound very democratic. Just, uh, ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, the ordinary citizen doesn't know any judge unless he had a case, but... he doesn't. So why should he vote for this one or that one, or rather, I'm sorry, to sign his candidacy? Why? This will only happen if there is an action, an action that will also be political, and it cannot be hidden. Different kinds of organizations, such as the Polish Gazeta Clubs, and I think that the father of the director Tadeusz Rydzyk will not remain passive either... So there will be such candidates. These candidates will also be on the lists and can be selected even in a large number. There were concerns about whether they would be chosen at all. I don't have that kind of fear. I think that's the way it can distort this list. That's why, Minister, I'm going to say yes. There's still time. We're not voting yet. One signal from the Presidential Palace on this issue and these amendments will be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u97	You have a voice, Senator Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the impression that everything has already been said, that all the arguments have been put forward, and in this brief statement I would just like to collect the most important points for me. There were six brave women standing in front of this room yesterday. They kept 3 banners with inscriptions: FREE JUDGES, FREE SELECTIONS, FREE POLAND. After all, these three cases are inseparable. Attacked by the Marshal's Guard, they were deprived of one of these banners. Guess which country? The one that says "Free Courts." They managed to defend Free Choices and Free Poland, but Free Judgments were taken from them yesterday. How symptomatic. After the intervention of the senators and the messengers, they were given everything, but they were not given the banner. How symbolic that the Free Courts were taken away by the protesters on the day of the debate on free courts. It's not enough. To those who remember this morning and this terrible night from 12 to 13 December 1981, the actions that were conducted yesterday in relation to the demonstrators are somewhat similar to that time. You've chosen a very bad time to take away the independent judiciary from the Poles. On 13 December, of course, it is associated with tanks and transporters on the streets. They're gone now. But on 13 December it is also associated with taking away Poles from the substitutes of freedom, which during 16 months of great star time I like to call him that. They were happy. Now power also takes away the most important things from Poles. She's already taken the Constitutional Tribunal. She took the public media and turned them into government propaganda, sometimes, I'd say, a filthy government tube. She took the people from the Autonomous Public Prosecutor's Office. She let it happen. It's actually what she wanted. In order that the evidence from provocation could be used in court, which did not happen within the framework of the Polish legal culture. It's the so-called. fruit from a poisoned tree. Power has partially switched NGOs to government, which doesn't happen in nature, because organizations are either government or non-governmental. Government NGOs don't... [[They're in Hungary.]] [[Voice from the room: And in Russia.]] Right. They're in countries we don't want to admit to. Yesterday I asked for the first time, and today I will repeat my question. What did the Poles do to you that you deprive them of their right to an impartial, fair trial by an independent and objective court? What the Poles have done to you that you are breaking art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution? This isn't just about the constitution. It's about the consequences of all of this. What did the Poles do to you that, as a result of your actions, the Pole will not be able to be as sure as Italy, French, German, American or Spanish as he can count on an objective sentence? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 45 constitutions are referred to impartial courts. What does "unbiased" mean? Devoid of bias, unprejudiced a priori to any party, not taking a priori to any party in the proceedings. It's a picture of Temida with a blindfold. What did the Poles do to you that you wanted to eliminate this painting? A just judgment is a law-abiding sentence, based on law and only law, not on a political order or a coyote recommendation. What did Poles do to you that you deprive Poles of the right to justice, to seek justice in court? What did the Poles do to you that you are bringing our country out of an international democratic legal space? I specifically asked your spokesperson how he knew the positions of international organizations to keep this in mind. The most important is yesterday's, fourth since June, the most recent statement by the State Department spokesperson, not only about the next attempt you will want to make on independent media, but also expressis verbis about what our most important ally, the United States, thinks of your idea of abolishing the independence of the courts. I will quote and translate live: the United States stresses that judicial reform should be in line with the Polish constitution and with the highest standards of international law, it should respect the independence of courts and the division of power. End of quote. You do not respect neither the three divisions of power, nor the independence of courts, nor the highest international standards, nor the Polish constitution. You break the Polish constitution many times. You're breaking art. 2 Polish Constitution, which mentions that Poland is a democratic state of law. Poland will remain a democratic state, I hope, for some time, but the rule of law is no longer a state. After this jump to the Constitutional Tribunal, after this execution, which is currently being carried out here in the Senate by the Senators of PiS in independent courts, Poland ceases to be a state of law before our eyes. You're also breaking art. 10 constitutions, an article specifically referring to the division and balance of the authorities, this article that has been embedded in our national memory since we as children learned about the Constitution on 3 May. And in our consciousness and tradition, the Constitution of May 3 functions as the first moment when the three divisions of power were introduced into the Polish legal order. But you're also breaking art. 173 and 178 of the Constitution, the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, and Article. 180, about the inevitability of the judges. You're doing it with a light hand. You're doing it consciously. You do it like you're shaking a fly off your sleeve. And yet this is a constitution which is a social agreement and which organizes the functioning and life of the entire national community. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I thank the marshal that I can still say this sentence. I would like to thank all those who again, as in July, have gathered before the Senate, who have been standing there since yesterday in the cold and support the defenders of the constitution, the defenders of the rule of law against this attack on the independence of the courts, which is being carried out here yesterday and today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 13 December, this is a good and bad time for a discussion about sadism in Poland. Good, because historical reflection makes us realize how much we've achieved. Angry, because in the context of what is happening today in the Senate, you can see how quickly we can return to the reality of the 1980s. I, ladies and gentlemen, will not go that far, today Dr. Adam Bodnar has tempted for such a longer reflection. I'll only be back by 2007. In 2007 the Commission PiS became famous for the practices that Agent Tomek embodyed, who offered public bribery interests, and then grabbed them by the hand and screamed: I caught a thief! It was supposed to be a way of proving that the opposition was corrupt and stealing. They were vile actions, and so they were taken. It would seem that the PiS is ashamed of such a kind of creation of reality, but it turns out that it does not. On the contrary, it introduces an improved model of catching a thief by the hand and screaming: catch a thief! Today, this symbolic thief is the Polish judiciary. It may not work well, but not as bad as the rulers describe. It turns out that in the official European statistics created by the European Commission among 28 countries, we are usually located around the tenth or thirteenth place. Interestingly, the PiS is in charge of repairing the wrong part of the judiciary that the citizen is dealing with and complaining about. After all, not with the National Judicial Council and not with the Supreme Court is the proverbial Kowalski. Exchange and submission of judges to politicians The most important part of the proposed amendments It will not replace the change of procedures or the completion of staff and hardware shortages in the nearest citizens of regional and district courts. On the other hand, the Ministry, most often through the mouth of Minister Ziobra, argues that the most important to improve the work of the judiciary are the profound human changes in the National Council of Judicial Affairs, made by politicians of course, and I mean politicians of Law and Justice who, because they are elected by the sovereign, in their own opinion, have more infallibility than judges. This conviction is so profound that even if it is contrary to the Constitution, it is in the name of the principle that the goal sanctifies the means and that Kaczyński cannot be wrong, this must be done. At the same time, we have a practice in which Minister Ziobro, even though he is a member of the National Judicial Council, has not participated in the meeting of the Council in two years, although there have been some 40 meetings and usually information about the dates of the meetings is received by the Minister on several months in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, is there a more appropriate place to repair the National Judicial Council than the meetings of this council? Of course there isn't. As long as we take for granted that this is really about positive changes, not the media spectacle of the same nature as Agent Tomek's. Furthermore, Minister Ziobro successfully competed with this agent about who would broadcast more episodes of this performance. That is why I believe it is reasonable to state and suspect that it is not about the repair of the KRS. Moreover, the Ministry justifies the need for changes in the National Courts Council and Supreme Court's bad opinion of the courts, mainly because of the length of court cases. But at the same time, the Minister is blocking the return to the courts of 880 judges, which is estimated to result in the failure of around one million cases a year. A million people and a million families angry at the tardiness of the courts do not know that the source of their anger lies not in the courts, but in the ministry. So what's the big deal? Why does the government focus on fixing the wrong thing? Why doesn't he use the simplest and obvious actions that could make a positive recovery... to improve the functioning of the courts? Maybe because it's not about the courts at all. Maybe because there's politics in the background. That it is really about subjugating the courts to politicians, as an objective in itself, and that submissive politicians can serve other purposes, strictly political, e.g. related to local government elections and each subsequent election. For whoever has power in courts has power over the interpretation and organisation of elections. It is easy to imagine using an emergency complaint or response to electoral protests to achieve electoral goals, all the more so because the local elections cannot be played on the rural one. Someone's gonna say I don't have any proof that this is gonna happen. And he'll be right. But as with Agent Tom, it's worth being cautious. In that case, the disguise was the mask of the briber and the playground, and it was the mask for the CBA agent, and in this case, in the case of changes in the judiciary, the disguise may be the concern for the quality of the judiciary and the real face of the political objective. I also assume that all these things that happen around court institutions, either have a purpose or are the fruit of stupidity. The stupidity of the initiators of the changes in the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court is not to be accused. So I'm pointing out the probable purpose of a worthy memory and agent Tomek, and the anniversary of the martial law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u100	You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The assessment of such a major project must be made not only from the point of view of the changes in the rules themselves, but above all, as was widely discussed here, from the point of view of co-functioning of the institution of the rule of law. The proposed changes are undoubtedly of a systemic nature, relate to issues relevant to the functioning of the State and must fit into the model of a democratic rule of law, as this is a fundamental principle of the Republic of Poland, as defined in Article. 2 constitutions. Consequently, the proposed amendments must comply with the provisions of the Constitution, since a hierarchy of legal sources is in force in the State of law, as is apparent from the article. 8 and 87. The principle of separation, independence and co-control should be recognised as the basis of a democratic rule of law. At the heart of this concept, we have the principle of the independence of courts, the independence of judges, and its primary objective is to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens and to guarantee them the right to a fair court. All the opinions that you have here... Most legal theorists, especially constitutionalists, point out that without respect for the principle of separation of authorities, it is impossible to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. Therefore, if we recognise the principle that the rule of law is one of overriding values and is a fundamental source of many constitutional principles whose existence is fundamental to the process of interpretation of the law, we must recognise that any violation of this principle must lead to a distribution of democratic order and threatens fundamental civil liberties. The independence of the law of each authority, including the legislative authority, means that the law-making process, which is undoubtedly the power of the legislative authority, is also governed by certain rules. All of our debate Unfortunately, it is very short, but I must say that for such a short time, also a deep one indicates that this way of creating law has not been subject to these rules. I will no longer repeat my argument that this is not the law. 'Cause it's raining out of that podium many times. And that, in itself, is a violation of the Constitution. After all, you must be aware of all these allegations of constitutionalists, theorists, practitioners of law, judges about violation of the spirit of the Constitution. A social contract, a framework within which we have a duty to remain and move. Why didn't you give us the opportunity to think about all these problems for a long time, even so that there wouldn't be an accident that our legal office was very specific about, which the legislator was talking about, pointing out mistakes, inconsistencies, denials and violations of the constitution? You are saying that this is a change to help Poles regain the opportunity to pursue justice. I'd like to show you what it's going to look like. Let's read this project. I'm not saying this is a presidential project. This is a project after change. The politician, Marshal of the Sejm, will receive the applications and will apply to the elected President of the court, because this is how you changed the law, for an opinion. And here's the first possibility of manipulation. You can give a negative opinion about someone we're not in the way of. Come on, next move. You can't give an opinion like that. You assume yourself in your project, in the article. 11a in point 7, where the information referred to in paragraph 1 is provided. Six, it won't be done... You're assuming she won't leave. That's when the candidate's going to get his own opinion. What else is in this project? Well, once the candidate finds out he doesn't get an opinion, Of course, time runs out. It's supposed to come up with its own opinion of itself and give it to the president. And where does it say the president is supposed to pass it on? Well, you don't write that anymore. What is this road? Each time you can move everything in time and block it. You're giving this way? Now it's the program's clou. Clubs have politically elected candidates We can sift all the people they want. You can kick everyone off that club list but one. Finally, the committee responsible shall establish a list of candidates. So this is where most people decide, too. Well, if the Minister wants to explain to me that it's not cut into one option... I'm not saying that it's under the Law and Justice option, but I'm saying it's cut into one option. [[Yeah, it is.]] [[They're here.]] Now, if you'll excuse me, it's a question of international implications. Yesterday I asked about it and I got an answer that we don't really know if it will affect our case law and our legal situation in relations with other countries. I am no longer talking about the European Union, which, I do not know why, even though Mr Morawiecki clearly said yesterday in the exposé that he opposes the Eurosceptic attitude, and especially the isolationist attitude... So are these voices of the Council of Europe, the institutions of the European Union... So, with this position of the new Prime Minister... Does this fit into what he said in the exposé? I don't think so. And is the opinion of the Executive Board of the European Judicial Councils Network... After all, this National Judicial Council, however you set it up, will continue to operate on this network, only against it, against its representatives there will be such a charge on the part of other councils: you, fellow judges, are chosen not in the way that works in the rest of Europe. [[Time...]] The last three sentences. Since we have decided to be in the European family and in the democracy family, such a project should not be missed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u102	You have a voice, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear guests! High Izbo! State ownership is underway in an intimidating way. On selective, individual examples, you're building your thesis, and I'll remind you of the billboard campaign. You're changing the law in an unacceptable way. Many examples could be given here: without consultation, at a rapid pace, often contrary to the Constitution. But you still have support in the polls, that's true. 500+, retirement age, fear of refugees, public media That's what you're playing with. It works, but it works for a while, and that's gonna change. Poles have their experiences and will not fall for it. I remember discussing the Constitutional Court in this Chamber, and I remember paying attention to what you want to change, that this is not good. You guys were talking about how... You even said that I think they work there, because they don't get together that often. Now the Constitutional Tribunal acts twice as free, examines twice as less cases. I don't know what to call these judges of the Court now, and I won't call them. That's what it looks like now. [[There's only one who works there.]] [[Titans of work.]] [[Voice from the room: But...]] Just read the statistics, Mr. Senator, I don't have to say anything exactly. But if you want me to develop it... Shame, shame... [[Voice from the room: Don't be embarrassed.]] I want to save you the embarrassment, Senator. Now, you're on trial, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on, there're gonna be a gift from the president for Christmas. What else is there? There's still a very important matter. The electoral order. We're gonna have to complete all this, so next week we're gonna have some nights too, because we're gonna have to discuss it. The question of reading the Constitution. Our constitution is very extensive compared to e.g. With the American, but clearly not enough. Senator Borowski said that what is clear is not in the constitution. As it turns out, Mr. Senator, it's not clear to everyone. You'd probably have to create a very extensive document to make that clear. I have a constitution in front of me. In this constitution, there are clear provisions: The National Judicial Council protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. I think that's clear. The National Judicial Council consists of... And there he is mentioned from whom: from the first President of the Supreme Court, the representative of the President, the Minister of Justice, etc. The 15 members elected from among the Supreme Court judges, general courts, administrative courts and military courts are further listed. And in the next item there are four members chosen by the Sejm from among the Members and two members elected by the Senate from among the senators. There's still another rule, another mouth. 3, which says that the term of office of the elected members of the National Judicial Council lasts four years. And it's all in the constitution. Is that so hard to understand? Just read it. And you're quoting that mouth. 4: The system, scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Board and the way in which its members are elected shall be governed by the law. And here you have a lot to show for it. Of course, no matter what's written in the Constitution. You interpret it in your own way. What's it written there for? I think it's pretty clear, but obviously this is where it all needs to be explained. Now let's move on to the bill we're investigating. I'm not gonna say it again because you've all mentioned what's wrong with this bill. I'll just go back to what the President has given up. There was a record that judges were elected by a majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members and that they were voted on the list of candidates to be prepared by the committee. But we know what arithmetic is, what 3/4 is, how many are Members and Senators. [[3/5, I think.]] Excuse me, 3/5. We know how many voices it is. Well, it's easy to count as 276 votes. And let's see what it looks like in the Seym system right now. As a result, the next recipe appeared, the second path appeared. If this first system does not work, the Council will be elected by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. Well, the minister here still said that every club will be able to report nine candidates, so there's a possibility that not all of them will be chosen from one option. But if that first maneuver doesn't work... And as far as 3/5 votes are concerned, the majority of the Sejm it can also decide that this list is not so good, it is not so favorable, and that it may be better to move to the second mode. Well, of course there's room for manoeuvre. Well, Mr. President has given in, although he's been putting this case very hard. The consequence of this is that we probably shouldn't prejudice, but we probably will. This second mode, based on the absolute majority, will be used. And so, in conclusion, I'm just going to say 'Cause I don't want to repeat myself. That Mr. President has given up. We've got an election order ahead of us. Let's see what this whole puzzle is all about. I would like to say that the people who are protesting there are certainly not going to give in to the majority of citizens. There are other important laws and important elections ahead of us. And even if you set up an election order, And it's already happened, there's been situations like this. And then it might turn out to work the other way around. In addition, such legislation needs to be amended well in advance. s such as these laws, such as electoral ordination. Let it run from the next election, not from the ones closest to it. So that I just want to warn you that what you're doing is what you're doing, what you're doing as a majority in a ruthless way, in my opinion, even in an intimidating way... It's about what's happening now and what's happened in the case of the civil service, the prosecutor's office, the public media, the military, the police, etc. There's a long way to go. It's taking its toll, but it's gonna end someday. I hope it ends well for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u104	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. You have five minutes, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u105	Yes, sir. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Dear guests! In the first part of my speech, I talked about the devastation and the fact that the devastation is not a reform, I said that the citizen's relationship with the state is always so small, and this country, these judicial facades, these buildings, institutions, is so huge. I was talking about this. And a couple of my friends were talking about it, too. That some investors will be afraid to invest in Poland because the judicial system, which will be here, will not guarantee impartiality. And I would also like to say very clearly that I would not like to, for example. To offend all the judges. I don't think all these judges are free to judge. I don't think all of them judge. It's against the constitution. But it is sufficient that there will be the possibility of referring the case to one court and one judge who will give the right judgment. And we're gonna have these situations, and I'm absolutely convinced of that, and I think next year, when we meet, we're gonna be able to watch it. I do. I don't know if it's been the whole game, I think the whole game, in my opinion it's already been the whole game, or maybe a fight, that the fight between the president and Minister Zioba or President Kaczyński has certainly been lost. And if you sign what you want the President to sign, it will be the defeat of the President and the President will lose forever. Unless something was agreed, but for now you can't see a minister leaving or something was going to change in Poland. If a minister leaves, he will be replaced by another equally zealous, or worse. That's just how it's gonna look, because that's what it looks like so far, and there's no problem finding someone like that. And the President cannot consider it a victory that he no longer rides... he does not have to drive at night in Nowogrodzka, only once or twice President Kaczyński ordered him to come to the Presidential Palace. It's not a victory, and it's not enough. I was talking about this citizen, I was talking about investment, I was talking about the media, they wouldn't have anyone to appeal to. But I'll also talk about artistic freedom. About what a citizen will be vulnerable to a court that can actually pass any sentence if the authorities want it to. Look at what's already happening in our country. Read this, Mr. President, read an interview with a surgeon, Professor Darius Dudek, 1969, an outstanding cardiologist, valued in the world. You ask this professor how you can destroy a man's life in a very short time if one person in the country comes after him. And there's a lot more than that. Too bad he's not here right now. I don't see him. Mr. Spokesman, Judge Jurk. You ask what judge Żurek has the chance to fight such a huge machine that is being launched against a man. And that's what I wanted to tell you. And I would also like to say that we met with Professor Strzembosz yesterday. Mr. President's got it. Even two of them are sitting here. The young lawyers of specialists. Too bad he didn't listen to authority. And I regret that his professors at his home school turned their backs on our president. It's an amazing thing. And it wouldn't have to be over, and it wouldn't have to be a terrible presidency. Perhaps Senator Marek Borowski is right, trusting yet that the President can do something. I think you can always give someone a chance. But if the president doesn't do anything, he's just gonna be the president he's been doing so far, I think... I wish that you would no longer run for your next term of office and that the President would trade you for another President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u106	You have a voice, Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I'm listening to my colleagues from the Civic Platform here, and frankly, the longer I listen to it, the more I'm amazed. I don't know how many people have been here before, but a lot of senators. And perhaps only one senator, Senator Pociej, tried to refer substantively to this law, and most of the state expressed some fears in the speeches, some ideas of the state, it was such a saying... Mr. Senator Klich mentioned some articles of the constitution that we're breaking, not to be honest, from where... He might have made up other articles. On the other hand, a very calm, balanced speech by Minister Fly, who said... [[That's great.]] [[Voices from the room: Great speech.]] That's a great performance. [[Oh, that's great.]] ...who said, by reference to the article. 187 constitutions that he clearly declares, defines... In this constitution I don't know if any of you have accepted it, but it's accepted, and it's clearly written and there's nothing to be interpreted here, ladies and gentlemen, that the rules for the functioning of the National Courts and the election of members will be governed by the Act. And it is Parliament, the Sejm and we, as senators, and then the President, by his signature, in the ordinary legislative process, that define the principles of this choice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard here how many different, curial, even, fears, fears have been expressed. There's been talk of martial law... [[And you'll hear it.]] ... Agent Tomek, this was compared to 2007. I don't remember which senator he was anymore. I think Senator Wright was saying... [[It's tight.]] It's tight, I'm sorry. By the way, and in this year 2007 what happened? Well, this horrible PiS democratically gave up power in 2007. And you took over in 2007. There was no dictatorship. [[And that's very substantive, about the bill...]] No, no, Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: I must enroll...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] For the time being, I'm referring to this... [[Let's let everyone talk.]] ...what you've been saying, so to speak, raised to these fears. I think that, in substance, he has calmly referred to all these issues by Minister Mucha. And somehow you didn't question what the Minister was talking about. Senator Pociej referred a little bit to this bill here and picked up some, well, some minor inaccuracies that are in this bill. But let's remember the conditions under which we were... under which conditions it was adopted... [[Too fast.]] ...in the course of these protests, etc. [[You should've put it in one night.]] There was a question that one of the Senators of the Platform asked: "What's the big deal? It's not about the courts, it's about politics. Yes, I agree with those statements of one of you, this is not about courts, this is about nothing but politics. You go... you go abroad, you complain, you walk those people out there, you protest, you tell them there's gonna be more murder in general here than in the days of martial law. In a moment we will remember the victims of martial law, we will remember today the fact that, so to speak, the democracy that existed there. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you can compare today's courts to those of that reality, then... I'm surprised. I am surprised, above all, by Senator Rulewski, who was being harassed at the time. By those courts, by that system. [[Now, too...]] Today you can be in the Senate, you can say the most psychic things here and a hair off the head of either Mr. Senator Rulevski or anyone else. It's not gonna fall. Ladies and gentlemen, only 3 more comments. There were some words here about the alleged fight between Minister Ziobra and the President. In general, whatever you do to the President, whatever the parliamentary majority, the ruling majority today, you will still question it. We have made some concessions as a result of this discussion. After all, there were differences in our environment with regard to certain specific solutions, and as a result of this discussion there was... That's what Minister Mucha mentioned, talking about these nine differences between the project and the other project. These were very substantive differences. These were not political differences, these were substantive differences, which changed the detailed provisions of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard the statements of the representatives of the National Courts. Well, you wanted to break 260 young people's careers at the start. They were Ziobra's men? Then the reporters checked that there was a daughter of the Senate Vice Marshal from the Modern or the Platform. Just to anger Minister Ziobra was rejected by the wholesale of all those who passed a fair exam, who spent many years in this school in Krakow, cramming the law. It doesn't matter if there was a daughter of some Civic Platform policy. Mostly, 99%, they weren't children of any politicians. And it's a good thing they weren't. It was only when the scandal, the upheaval, and even the media favoring the Civic Platform began to criticize it that they quickly started to withdraw from it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this composition of the KRS has been completely compromised and we are not hiding today that we want to change this composition of the KRS. Because he embarrassed himself, period. [[And if the senator embarrasses himself, then what?]] It's the voters who'll call him off. They won't pick him for the second term. This applies to a Member, a Senator or anyone else. Finally, one more point worth mentioning. This observation is obvious and you know it, but for political reasons you do not want to accept it, you do not want to talk about it publicly. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what Minister Mucha has already said here, as others have said. It's not like PiS politicians are gonna be picking judges. [[No?]] It will be the judges who decide who will enter the profession. We'll just choose... [[...guards.]] ...the judges who will decide that. But they're gonna be judges. If today we accept such reasoning that every body that the politicians choose is evil, then Mr. Bodnar is evil, because he was also elected by politicians, he was also elected by the Sejm. And the bad news is, so to speak, the Constitutional Court, whose judges are elected by politicians as well. Well, your colleague, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, is angry, and in the previous or even earlier term of office, Senator of the Civic Platform, is close to me, because he is from Wrocław, Mr. Kieres. [[From the Solidarity...]] [[Leon Kieres.]] And can we say now that he's a bad judge just because he's elected by a political body like the Senate? Yeah, you could say he was a politician, and he was such a tough politician. And there were a lot of politicians from different backgrounds, so to speak, options that were members of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the one hand, the judge was a Member of the Union of Freedom or the Democratic Union, Professor Liszcz, if I am not mistaken and on the other hand he was... [[With PC was, with PC.]] And then she was probably also a member of the Freedom Union. [[From PC to...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please do not disturb the speaker.]] [[We're just helping.]] If I'm twisting names, I'm sorry. On the other hand, of course, he was also... So there were many Members and many senators who were elected to the Constitutional Tribunal, and no one accused these people of being bad judges just because they once had a political past or were elected by a political body such as the Sejm or the Senate. And we cannot call it that, ladies and gentlemen, because to this Constitutional Court different people have been chosen. Is the Ombudsman angry only because he is elected by the Sejm? [[Time.]] We can't say that. [[Time's up.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[But he's not a judge. You don't listen at all.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these judges, the new judges for the competition, the promotions will be done by their colleagues, the judges. And those judges who will function in the KRS will have independence, they will have independence, they will be irresistible, no one will be able to do anything to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u108	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly. How do you meet the demands of Senator Mroz, who demands substance and praises it and puts his foot under political affairs? And also how to understand the words "perhaps there was a verbal slip" when he says that these laws are only the first step? More, you said we wanted to talk. And last night I heard your appeal, 100% carried out by Senator Martynowski, to whom you asked to present a motion for adoption without amendment. So what's the discussion about? [[Voice from the room: How?]] It's a bill application. And that Senator-Automater did it. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, I take your call very seriously. Yesterday you said that in our conclusions there was no constructiveness, at least in these proposals concerning the National Council of Courts, there was no constructiveness, because these are only proposals rejecting the whole of the bill. So I'll try, as always, to satisfy your inquisitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, there is no escape from reflection. We are discussing the Supreme Court, the crown of the judiciary, which is to oversee the common court. And we are discussing, on the basis of the mandate presented by Mr Mucha, as confirmed by Senator Mroz and the majority, or perhaps everyone except Senator Cichoń, who hesitated whether it was necessary or not to reform in this way. The main premise was the worst trials that can be handled by the judiciary, that is, corruption, insensitivity, moral and ethical discipline... probably nepotism, as I recall. The charges were so big, I didn't notice them. But we didn't get an answer at the committee meeting, what's the scale, what's the measure of these... And I'm interested, for example. That judge who's a bar or computers, computer parts... Did he finally, after a year, because I think it's been so long, have he been tried or have his final sentence passed? And that's it. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to mention on this day that at the time of the introduction of martial law in Poland, at the same time a certain modification was introduced in the Supreme Court of the Polish People's Republic, namely the creation of a special section to examine the correctness of judgments handed down by common courts. [[Voice from the room: Who...]] As you know, the common courts did not fully hear the statements of the WRON that the strict law, but the law, and somehow eased it. I found out myself, although I wasn't a defendant at the time. It is worth saying that this steering wheel, which was created in the Supreme Court of the Polish People's Republic, caused that military courts sentenced more than 10,000 people for political reasons, common courts Only 1 thousand 600, but the College of Misdemeanors is 210 thousand. I'm talking about this because the PRL's judiciary hasn't resisted power, strict power. There have been times when one of the judges at the hearing said Here, nomen omen, as if I heard another lawyer speak, Professor The law is the law, but the power must be obeyed. It seems to me that this law is written in this spirit, by a man who had to exercise some faith in the central administration, including the administration of courts. And that's why there's this personal attack I don't think he's flattered about. But here's the bill, and we have two paths: not to accept it. Following all those people and institutions who, in a clear and clear way, indicate that this law is not in line with social expectations... And what is the social expectation, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Senator? In fact, the social expectation is not to go to court at all, and if anything, it is out of necessity. And that is the expectation of 5 million people if you accept the average here. Because there are 15 million lawsuits, let's count on 1 person 3 lawsuits, which means 5 million people come out. That's how much goes to the courts. That could indicate two causes. So that here, in Parliament... But not only because the courts are not only going to court because of bad laws in parliament, but also because of resolutions in local government and other regulations. Because they're illegible, they don't respond to life's situation... One of them I was talking about was that the Supreme Court, including the Labour Chamber, didn't stop the trash deal wave. But it is also true that the will of many governments, many institutions, opinion centres, media, has not argued that this threat to the labour market can be separated or significantly reduced. So not the court... And if there's a court, then I'm sorry. I'm talking to those who are creating another appeal institution, how many of these courts are supposed to be, how many of these degrees? I think the citizen expects it to be one step, the first step, and that it should be fair. And if a citizen is in court, then what? He's expecting from the court? Of course, he expects the matter to be dealt with at the right time. Some say fast. But I'm really sorry, because there are people coming to my office who say, "Mr. Janek, please advise us, let your lawyer tell us how to avoid a settlement, because we don't have that money, because we don't have a place to go, for example. to another apartment, etc. So there are those who aren't too quick to decide. But we understand that we are in favour of a judicial decision being as soon as possible under conditions of compliance with all procedures. And if we, the citizens, are in court, we don't want to be recipients of cases on the jury tape: 10 minutes for each case and the next one please. And if we're already in this courthouse, then we don't want to suffer the consequences of exercising our right to court, so to summon witnesses... We want the runners to be reliable and available to the court. Because let us not hide, Minister, that today our economic, social and cultural environment or international it is an extremely complicated matter and the judge cannot be the one who settles matters alone, must be based on expertise, on in-depth knowledge. And if there's a court at stake, then there's a court at stake. You can't hide it, Counselor, but it's not an accusation against you. At least cost. And aren't you the solution to a lot of trials that cause you to get fired? No. So, if there are gonna be courts, then there's gonna be transparent procedures. I'd add even more, but you'd better write about it, Counselor Gutowski of the Supreme Bar Council. So if the courts are, then... No one's talking about it anymore, so I'm gonna allow myself to boast about it. What is a feature of the current governments and what was not before, I will not tell you in what times, and certainly not even in American... is breaking the principle of truthfulness. With us today, it has been accepted that the sanctions for perjury are negligible or not at all present. How can a trial be carried out quickly or quickly, when there is tolerance for perjury? [[Time's up, Senator.]] Sorry, it's past, I understand, the time of this perjury, right? [[Ten minutes.]] Oh, no. Thank you. I'll allow you five more minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u110	Then you'll get it in order. [[But of course, Mr. Marshal. Of course.]] There you go, sign up. Thank you. Now you have the voice of Senator Augustine. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not fully agree with the claim that there is a fight between Minister Ziobro and the President. In my opinion, if these gentlemen are arguing with each other and if they're fighting for something, it's about influence. Not in our interest at all. And we used to call this kind of struggle a game rather than a noble fight. Rather, those who thought of this rivalry, that it was a fight for something, about the principle, about citizens' rights, have the right to feel disappointed and even deceived. Part of this game was to stop the growing process of social opposition, growing in the number of demonstrations. And it must be said that here, in this struggle, power has temporarily succeeded in winning a certain victory, although the wave of demonstration returns. In this second speech, I would like to say something that seems very important to me, namely that the president and the government, the governing camp, take on a crazy responsibility, spread out perhaps for many years, if not for decades. Maintaining confidence in justice and courts is not easy. There are disputes before the courts, and in general only one of the parties is satisfied. Those who are dissatisfied, those who do not know... are so many that this trust is very easy to undermine. And indeed, this is consistently done by billboard campaigns. Something unheard of in a democratic country to undermine the authority of judges and courts in their own country. This is the world championship. Indeed, it is the European Union that needs to be recommended. I can't believe they didn't think of it either. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the great harm that is happening. Mr Zawistowski said here, as the letters addressed to the judges start today: "I desire, and not please, I do not conclude, I demand from these vile elites that it be my way and the way I want it to be." It would be a signal that this campaign is producing results. But she's gonna hit anyone who's in charge, you need to know. Because once you can pacify and politicize the courts, they won't have any credibility. And that's why I think it's the worst thing. I, too, was court-martialed in economic matters, and I had a grudge about chronicity. I was losing the election trial, and I was complaining about the conviction. But when I went out to people, I tried to be abstinent in my assessments, knowing that a breach of trust in the courts and judges is a hit on the foundations of a state that may not be seen, but which determine its consistency. Ladies and gentlemen, you want governments without limits. Meanwhile, the whole political thought says, "I quote this for Glenn Tinder, a well-known world-famous political scientist." That there is a fairly common consensus that governments can only be exercised within a well-known and enforceable restriction. Only such governments are democratic. If we can't enforce power respect for the Constitution And that's what's happening right now. It will cease to be democratic governments. The situation today, on 13 December, resembles another dramatic moment, which I am reading from now on the threshold for Poland's great pilanin, my compatriot, Stanisław Staszic. Well, when the Russians imposed on the Polish fragile, court-martial of their people and decided on who would be the judge and what the verdicts would be, when the rulers did the same in the name of their interests, he observed And see how it's up to date! There is no equality, freedom or property, where human rights are already touched, where one citizen has the power to appoint judges for his fellow citizens... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] There human rights are in constant danger, where one master's degree The jury is elected for the country as a whole. We know where to find her master's degree, her address. This is the wrong address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u112	Senator Czarnobaj has your voice, for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by saying that I disagree with what Senator Pociej said. I've already signaled it at break. That is, Mr. Senator, it is not so... Because you exaggerated the role of the court president. This isn't how it's gonna be. ♪ Though of course ♪ I'm not a lawyer. I suspect it's gonna be a scenario: first, the president of the court will be replaced. 'Cause either it doesn't have that effect, or his subordinate stole his pants somewhere, or there's something else... So that the President of the Court will be exchanged and the opinion will already be positive. And the one who will not get such a positive opinion. I know, the Senators present in the PiS room in number or strength of four... [[With a marshal, it's....]] Oh, the marshal's fifth, yes. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'll count your marshal double. What I'm trying to say is that this is a possible scenario, just possible. How I Know Life And, worst of all, I know my colleagues, not senators, but from my town. I know that this scenario is possible. So first the president, Mr. Senator, and then the opinion. And it's gonna happen by chance that this president is going to be replaced by Minister Ziobro. As far as the macro scale issue is concerned, the macro scale that Senator Frost said was not affected... We should get back to these particular records. Such laws have a huge impact on Poland's perception. There were examples: the Council of Europe, the European Commission, a whole set of institutions, departments in the United States. It could be said that all of this does not affect Poland. However, I would like to tell you that I have recently found information that Freedom House, a foundation that has been active for some 75 or 71 years, dealing with human rights violations and the reduction of democracy, has placed us in a group of wonderful democratic states. Do you know who's in this group? Countries suspected of violating the constitution, the rule of law and freedom are as wonderful countries as Congo, Iran and Angola, and we. You say that what is happening does not affect the perception of Poland, investments or other things, but nobody in the European Union will invite us to the main table. The representatives of Angola, Iran and Congo will invite us so that we can talk about how to defend ourselves against the negative opinion of bad people who do not understand the specifics of the Polish judiciary. Because it's such a great project. Now I'm getting to the mundane thing. You read it, Senator Borowski, but I'll say it again. I hope that you will repeat this to your colleagues. Poles expect changes in courts. But what exactly do they expect? That something will change in terms of chronicity. As many as 800 jobs are unattended because it's waiting for us to finally do it. We, men of law and justice, of law and justice. Too complicated procedures. Well, the draft of this law simplifies the procedure very much. I've never seen a law so simple and so clear. There, in black and white, you can see who's calling who, who's judging who, and who's influencing what. There's too much to pay. I will read to you the information found on the Internet about the proposals for new charges. Maybe you don't know. I refer here mainly to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, especially those who voted for the PiS That from the new year for filing a divorce application instead of 600 zlotys will probably be paid 2 thousand. You could say... I'm having second thoughts about whether there should be more. The ordinary court fee will increase from 30 PLN to 100 PLN, and the charge for the cassation complaint will increase from 40 PLN to 100 PLN. With a class action, it's between 100 and 10,000, and it's between 300 and 20,000. Oh, that's beautiful. You meet the expectations of Poles. How will these draft laws, Ladies and gentlemen, translate into the functioning of Poles? We have such examples. The judge from Bialystok happened to be in Vilnius. He's watching and what does he see? The Deputy Minister of Justice is coming. And in three days' time of apparition, the judge who went there from Białystok became the president of the court. Why? Because he has returned all the protest cases to a lower instance and will return them until the court finally says: Okay, we will punish you so that you will no longer be dragged into the courts. Dear Poles, this is how it's going to be... [[Time's up.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. This will be the implementation of these laws. Now it's a citizen's example. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. If you believe, I ask Polish citizens that an independent prosecutor from Law and Justice, an independent judge from Law and Justice, as well as independent media will defend you against all kinds of situations that may happen, then I will say one thing: we are helpless citizens and the state is police. Finally, I quote you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your permission. Well, the judicial system is about what you're proposing is an important element of freedom, as the representatives of Freedom House said. I'll read you something. Freedom is only when the Nation creates unity. We feel this unity not only in this room. We are here to argue, but there is unity in Poland. [[You're wasting your time.]] Freedom is only when the Nation creates unity, and the living people in it feel like a vagrant, not a slave to a few possessed. St. John Paul II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u114	You have a voice, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My attitude towards this project is, of course, critical, and critical. I would say that this whole process of changing and repairing the judiciary of the PiS started from a good end, from the good side, from the Constitutional Court. Please note that among so many speeches, so many questions that have been asked here for maybe 10 hours, no one has even come up with an idea to decide whether something is constitutional or not using the Court. Both sides know... [[He knows.]] ...that the Court is completely dependent and non-functional. And we are actually arguing only with each other, because the result of the Court's activities in this respect, if it were to bring a complaint, is known to both parties. Minister Mucha spoke very beautifully and I was actually pleased with this speech, but, I would say, theoretically and with the assumption of good will of everyone. Unfortunately, the law cannot assume that, Minister. Law is a tool of limitations, imposition of obligations and prohibitions. And if there is to be a good law, it must assume a bad will. It has to, or the law won't work. Just in case, we have to assume that the president's primary motive is the second term. For each Member and Senator, its main motive is the positive assessment of the Head of the Party and to be elected for the next term of office. The prime minister's motive is for the prime minister to judge him well, and when he can be replaced to replace the prime minister. If we lay down the law on such assumptions, then it can actually work properly, not on the assumption that everyone has good will. Well, even those who take an oath can understand it differently, and even as they think they have good will, in practice others can judge it completely differently. That's why the law has to be constructed differently. And that is the reason why the election of the members of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm is inadmissible. And that's why these international instances are criticizing it. Not because we couldn't choose, not because there wouldn't be good judges and people in Poland, just because you have to assume bad will, you have to assume that the right number of people will be tempted to tell these judges something to influence them. This has to be assumed no matter what it's really like. If you bet on it, you build the law differently and it's safer. It's never good, but it's just safer. And in this whole construction that you have adopted, there are actually serious errors in my opinion. I, among the smaller mistakes, consider the fact that it is written in the article. 9 that the Sejm shall, as far as possible, take account of the need for representation in the Board of Judges of the various types. This is an expression of the powerlessness and inability of legislation. It would simply be possible to delete this, and then it would be that the Sejm takes into account the need for representation in the judges' council. I'm not going to make an amendment because I'm definitely in favour of rejecting the whole thing, but it's an expression of powerlessness. In my opinion, it's even worse in the article. 11d, because the committee responsible determines the list of candidates by choosing... Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in this bill, the election is made by the committee, not by the Sejm. In fact, it's in the article. 5 says the Sejm elects members of the council for a four-year term, voting for letters. So he doesn't choose, he doesn't choose, he just approves, Minister. This law is not true in this respect. The election shall be made by a committee and the Sejm shall approve or not. And it's not right. This isn't right. But since the Sejm shouldn't choose at all, I don't make any... what kind of choice is that? The Seym doesn't pick anybody. If he had two letters, he'd still be choosing between the list. A and B, but he doesn't. He approves the list and actually passes, so to speak, to the second round in another majority. And if it doesn't work out, it's repeated the process of getting those people on the lists, that's all. The only choice is on the committee. It's all a mess together. And it doesn't do any good because you just assume good will, but that good will is assumed in bad intention. To influence the courts by the parties. And that's the worst of all. And that's why, actually, this action, as well as these beautiful explanations, I condemn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u116	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator Frost is currently absent from the O.R. [[I'll replace him.]] Oh, great, then tell him... Because after our speeches, I often hear applause. Tell him that after his speech, because I sit back to Minister Fly, I also heard that the Minister clapped, so that... that he thought he had also received applause in the hall. [[He received a very good speech.]] Yeah, too great... And now I'm going back to this performance. Because I wouldn't even be performing today, but he said that the KRS's composition was compromised, and the whole lineup was built on this discreditation of the KRS's composition. Ladies and gentlemen, Wikipedia. I have a resume ahead of me. In 1998, she resigned from the judge's office. [[Who?]] In 2001, she tried to... I'll get to that. In 2001, it was the Civic Platform that was not there. I am one of the 4 founders of the Civic Platform in Wielkopolska, and in 2001 we started establishing the Civic Platform. So you can't say it's the Platform's fault here. I read: In 2001 she tried to rehire in the District Court in Poznań. Its candidacy has been adversely assessed by the General Assembly of Judges of the District Court due to numerous errors in the issuing of judgments, the above-average number of overturned judgments and the high absenteeism at work, thus stating that its return to judgment would be detrimental to the judiciary. Wikipedia, you can read who I'm talking about. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No...]] So if Senator Frozz is saying that the KRS team has compromised itself, then you should read it, watch one of the press conferences that took place... And there's no wonder, as my predecessor here said, that we're not really discussing whether the Constitutional Tribunal will decide here, because we know how it works, and maybe it will decide in a few years' time, if... Because it was going to be fast, there was going to be a draw, there was going to be an acceleration, and so on... We see how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would recommend to Senator Mroz a book that has recently fallen into my hand, it is worth to be decent to Władysław Bartoszewski to read it to himself. I had another book in my hand lately, but I didn't recommend it, Macierevich and his secrets, but... But I recommend to him a book worth being decent, because it will certainly learn something from it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm quick to make adjustments. Besides, as it turned out, and Senator Borusewicz makes a similar amendment, and this amendment has probably already been tabled, as I heard... Well, I'm talking about the amendments to the National Judicial Council Act concerning the choice of judges or whether judges can choose... Whether they can be selected for the KRS or not. And here too... The Judge may not combine the function of elected member of the Board with administrative activities in the Ministry, etc. So I would like to do it again... and this is very important to the Minister, indeed this amendment is important and important. As far as I know, Senator Borusewicz has not prepared an amendment in the second part of which I also submit... But I think Senator Borowski read it, so we probably have parallel corrections. I also mean that they can't... Ladies and gentlemen, we have 10,000 judges in the country, right? I think that's what the Minister said. Ten thousand judges, and at the Ministry work about 200, so nothing will happen if these two hundred judges do not sign, i.e. there will be no twenty-five of them who can sign for a candidate for the National Court Register. I think these amendments are very important and very important. This will testify to what is actually going on, whether the Ministry of Justice will have any significant influence or not. So that I make these amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u118	Thank you, Senator. I'll ask Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listen so much to this debate and admit that I lack legal arguments here too much emotion, various political allusions and mutual identification of injustices, sometimes real and sometimes invented for the purpose of oppressing the adversary. So, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to focus on the legal argument that's closer to me than all these personal tours and political feats, like the ski jump sometimes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to refer to the text of the basic law, i.e. the article. 187, which concerns the National Judicial Council, and in paragraph 1. 4, which states that the law shall decide on the election to the National Judicial Council. This is the starting point. Sometimes, in order to reach a conclusion, you have to analyze the rules from behind, not from the front, which is why I started with my mouth. Four, that's the last one. So now we're going backwards, moving forward... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And what did the previous regulations say? Earlier passages... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Earlier paragraphs indicate the composition It follows from them that the composition is 25 members, of which 15 members are elected from among the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item is that four members are elected by the Senate from among the senators, and two members are elected by the Sejm from among the Members... [[The other way around.]] I'm sorry, the other way around. I'm sorry for the slip, but it's the other way around. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, an indication here of the organ he chooses is that... well, what's the point? From the fact that there is a clear reference to what group this choice comes from. However, one must honestly say that there is a gap in this regulation, which concerns the selection of 15 members from among the judges, because there is no question of who chooses. This is a typical legal gap that demands an interpretation and a decision on who makes this choice. Of course, there are 2 possible interpretations. The first one presented here by the opposition is that the choice should be made by the judges themselves, as was the case in the previous regulation. The second interpretation, proposed and found its development and its full content in the proposed law, is that the Sejm does so. Of course, there are arguments and for one, and for another interpretation. In such a situation, it is up to Parliament to decide which interpretation to use. And you can't make a plea that if we go for the second interpretation that the decision-making power of Parliament, not the judges themselves, then... It cannot be said that this is contrary to the constitution. Because it would be contrary to the constitution if it were actually written there, that the judges themselves make the choice. And I don't think anybody here is gonna deny me that since there's a gap in this formula for the selection of members from among the judges... Well, you can't, in a situation where you can choose one of the interpretations, the one that's proposed in a legal act, say that it's a violation of the constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a big exaggeration, a really big exaggeration. [[Applause]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, this is where the appeal was made... Yesterday, Judge Zawistowski, and today, Mr. Ombudsman, both excellent lawyers, appealed to a verdict in the Urban Brothers' case. And it's just so lucky that I ran this case before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and won it. And to the fact that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg said that the assailant in this regulation, which was in force at that time, because, as we know, a few months ago we changed the status of asessor, was not an independent judge within the meaning of the requirement of the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights, and this is because it could be revoked at any time by the Minister or transferred to another judicial district. Ladies and gentlemen, as these people who I consider to be very experienced lawyers have invoked this, I will go further to this sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to read a dozen different judgments of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which concerned this matter, and in my argument I appealed, among others. to those sentences. These are mainly judgments against the United Kingdom, but also judgments against Moldova, judgments against the United Kingdom are mainly those concerning the Campbell case. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is there that the Court is very specific about the quality of an independent judge. In Campbell's judgment against the United Kingdom, there's even a word for it. Anyone who wants to see, §49, the case-law of the Court of Human Rights, so-called. HUDOC... The Court has stated that it is considered acceptable for judges to be appointed by enforcement, that in itself this is not contrary to the requirements of the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. However, it is necessary It is a further step in this independence In order for the executive authority to have no effect on the performance of judicial functions by such an appointed judge, even by enforcement rather than by any other means. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is the clou of the whole case. Question: "Do you think that these regulations that we are introducing will limit the independence of the judge when he has already been appointed?" 'Cause that's what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone is appointed as a judge, no one has the right to interfere in this judge's activities because there is criminal liability here. And secondly, there are laws that secure this independence. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no way anyone can influence the judge's actions. In fact, I was discussing this on the occasion of this earlier law, which I referred to, at the moment when I referred to one of these three laws, let's say, the judiciary, or the law on the system of common courts. 'Cause it's just not real. I can't imagine anyone coming to the judge, even the head of the department or the president of the court, and suggesting to him what decision he's going to give, ladies and gentlemen. This oversight, which has the president of the court or the head of the department, is quite different in character. He can point out to the judge that, for example. it is noted that it is well behind in cases which lead, for example. it does not make the reasons for the judgments within the prescribed time limit, which was, as was even mentioned here, the reason for submitting the judge of office. And I remember myself, ladies and gentlemen, from the time I was still on the judge's application, that there was such a case that there was a judge who wrote very short justifications. It's already called an anecdote to expand the atmosphere. He wrote that the factual justification as in the file and the legal justification as in the Civil Code. Of course, he quickly ended his career, but such situations sometimes happen in life. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no law in this bill, in my opinion, as a result of giving Parliament the right to choose from among these submitted candidates, not by anybody else, but by judges, judges to the National Judicial Council... We can judge whether this is a better solution or a worse solution. Well, maybe some people would think that it would be better if the judges themselves did it by choosing the same way as before, but there are also arguments for this... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] ...was done by parliamentarians. That is why I am only limited to this legal argument, in order to give you consideration to the specific decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and not to such general opinions sometimes expressed by various kinds of international bodies, which very often consist not necessarily of top-class lawyers, but rather of politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u120	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome. [[I'd sign up, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I will not go forward as my predecessor, my colleague, but I will go backwards, according to the rule of motion. I'll remind you exactly what happened a year ago, because maybe we forgot, and it was also such a turbulent time, not because of Christmas and New Year's. Then it should be the other way around. But there was a lot going on. I don't know if it's a coincidence if it's such a deliberate planning for the Senate meetings, but I'll remind you that a year ago, exactly on December 16th, we had protests against the functioning of reporters in parliament buildings. We remember what was going on back then, how much noise was going on, and we know exactly how it turned out. Later, the atmosphere became a little more nervous, because the budget was voted on in the Column Hall, and the amendments were voted on by raising hands. It was also, I think, some kind of psychic in the history of the Sejm and the Senate. Probably something like this happened, I don't know the end of the story, maybe something like this has happened before, but what happened exactly a year ago really aroused the horror on the one hand, and on the other hand a great surprise, and it's not just people who are on my side, from the opposition. I also learned in a conversation with colleagues from Law and Justice that it aroused great emotions among them, although of course they could not say it out loud. Under the windows of Parliament's buildings protested CODE and citizens of the Republic of Poland, as we hear today, we heard yesterday. [[What?]] You can hear them, they're here. [[There's a couple of people.]] There's a couple of people. Sure, Mrs. Marshal, they went for a walk because it's good weather. [[Probably.]] Well, it's so less important that President Kaczyński and the Prime Minister left the Sejm at 3:00 a.m., and then a part of the Members, as we know, began spending their daily time, living in Parliament, probably until mid-January, as I recall. The sight of Senator Rulewski in the mask didn't scare me at all. [[He scared me.]] [[You can make history yourself.]] He didn't scare me, and I also think that he's the person behind a story, and that's what he's done, some things that make you think, fit. Probably wouldn't be like this if I or anyone else, from a younger generation, behaved like this. But perhaps this is also a reference to an American film more than 20 years ago, based on comedy comics, where everyday life or certain behaviors have a double role and a double face. Maybe that mask from here. Because, on the one hand, some dictators dress up in the robes of democracy, still this democracy is as if it were placed first, and on the other hand, what is happening here is really not right. It's not right, because... I don't know if you can see what's going on in the streets, what's going on in normal conversations, really destroying what's been built with such a canopy for the past 27 years. It really boils down to the fact that perhaps Poles will become enemies to each other, and the newly elected Prime Minister yesterday Although, in fact, if you look at the Council of Ministers meeting, you can see that they have actually moved only one place to the right and nothing has changed... So perhaps in a moment we will be enemies to each other, as it was during one only manifestation, which I recall in my previous term of office, when the Parliament building surrounded around the people of the Solidarity and the miners who had chains in their hands. And then it was a peaceful protest... And you couldn't get out of Parliament, you couldn't get close to the barriers, because you could get a chain without asking for guilt, without asking who you are, whether it's an office worker or it's a parliamentarians, because the people who stood on the other side were determined for everything. Today we have peace demonstrations, but such a gathering of forces and resources that I see here is not even on the derby of our 2 cities, i.e. Green Mountain and Gorzów, and they are always high-risk matches. And I can assure you that, when there are 20,000 people at the stadium, there are far less police, there are far less resources, cars, dogs, and above all barriers, because even though fans are hostile to each other, the security that is in parliament today is not really there. And I don't want to repeat here with colleagues who have already spoken on this subject as professionals... But as a young generation, I am really protesting and I wanted to express my vote of opposition by not agreeing to such a course of action, not agreeing to such a way of making laws, not accepting changes that turn our democracy upside down. Thank you. [[With this young generation, you overreacted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u122	Thank you very much. You have expressed your objection, Senator. Now I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[He's not here.]] There isn't. This is Senator Stanisław Rooster. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Minister! Dear guests! Dear Lords, to me, Poland is sacred. Listening to this debate, this is the second time I've just collapsed the world, because Parliament and the Senate have always been the House of reflection, not the House of the circus and not doing anything really wrong with the Senate. What is happening in the Senate, and what my colleague from Solidarity is doing, as we rightly say, the hero of that time, Senator Jan Rulewski First he dresses in prison clothes, and now, Dear Lords, he wears a mask... So he destroyed the Senate's authority that, Dear Lords, I do not know when this authority will be rebuilt. I am really also a man of solidarity, very radical, but I haven't heard such hypocrisy as yours in a long time. It wasn't that long ago that you all yelled free media! Yesterday, I asked Senator Rulewski a question about whether the sovereign is the one who challenges a young journalist from the worst. If someone in the mountains used those words, they'd find out where he belongs. Is the sovereign the kind of man who actually insults a journalist, and he owns a company that doesn't pay taxes, a man who once protected the President, the President of the Republic of Komorowski, or this head of the club, Mr. Grupiński, who pulls a microphone off a journalist? The TVN reporters came to me today and I gave an interview politely. You can't use hypocrisy... Dear Lords, even painting on the flag mask of the Republic of Poland... Dear Lords, for this flag people gave their lives under Monte Cassino, under Narvik, under Tobruk, under Lenino! What are we stooping to? How will I look into the eyes of the grandchildren I teach: "Who are you? Polish kid. What's your sign? White eagle? What are we doing? How does this heroic man's wife, Mrs. Romaszewska, feel? We insult Mr Macierewicz... And where were you, heroes, when Radom was there, when they formed the NRA, the Workers' Defense Committee? At the time it was heroic because you couldn't go back to your wife, to your kids. And today, those who actually put things in a state of war are becoming defenders of democracy. We're celebrating the century of independence. Those heroes, Mr. Marshal Piłsudski, a socialist; Mr. Dmowski, a nationalist; Mr. Witos, a peasant, was able to leave their views aside for the sake of the Republic of Poland, so that the homeland would be free. I'm giving you 100% today. guarantee that if it were Poland, it would be Mr. Borowski, who says that he has left-wing views, and I have right-wing views, and I have right-wing views. I'm sure we'd have reached a consensus. And today the authority is offended, the authority of the President of the Republic is offended, the authority of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński is offended, in my opinion the husband of the state... and how these young people have... My daughter called me yesterday after the circus. Here and he says, "Daddy, tell them I'm paying taxes and you're being held up for it." And where is the authority of a very honest and decent Marshal of the Blanket, like Mr. Rulewski, the senator insulting her? He should apologize, first, as a marshal, second, as a woman. Where are we going? I was in La Rambla Square in Spain at the time of the assassination. At that time, it was said that Catalonia would fight for freedom. You're attacking the police, Mr. Błaszczak. What happened when Catalonia wanted independence? What were the police doing? And in France, when were the protests of the workers? Why didn't those men from the Union who ratted on them stand up for those Catalans and French workers?! Poland owes everything because Poland tells immigrants firmly: no! Today everyone congratulates Poland on this! Why today the Germans give 6,000 euros each... [[A little quieter...]] I'm sorry, I have such a tone. Buddy Dear, I wasn't in the PRON, I wasn't in the WRON, I wasn't in the Front of Unity of the Nation when you destroyed the Solidarity... And today you're gonna be a democracy defender?! [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn turns the card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz towards the speaker.]] You're supposed to be a democracy defender?! [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn turns another card with the caricature of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz towards the speaker.]] Rotate... For Mr. Piotrowicz... you weren't... the same as him... for me a communist actually, who from the beginning to the end has left-wing views, as mentioned here Mr. Senator Borowski... I respect him very much for not changing his views like a chameleon, because some people change their views like chameleons. And it can't be that... Dear Lords, one day we'll be hard to answer for this as Catholics before God. What he once said to sleep. Reagan to the American who asked him: what did you do for the United States? Reagan said to him, "What have you done for the United States?" What do we want to leave for the next generation?! Destroyed Poland, ruins?! What are we gonna criticize... For the fact that Lech Kaczyński's sacred memory began to give honors to the Enchanted AK soldiers? Everything's on them, everything's wrong, everything's okay! Ino, Mr and Mrs Dear, the justice system would be good if the PiS activists and judges were sitting at the offices of Law and Justice in Nowogrodzka! And all the judges... She showed us how they left the PO headquarters after the meetings! Ladies and gentlemen, is this what democracy is supposed to be like?! What Minister Pigeon said here yesterday... If the President swears to the judges, he always asks: be independent, be apolitical. Once again, I appeal to Senator Rulewski to apologize to your marshals. And remember, Poland is sacred. It's sacred! For this country, people gave their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it possible to protest in the streets now? Are the police pouring water? What, we don't remember the miners' protests when the watersheds left and destroyed...? [[They're ……]] I see who's standing here, Senator Augustine. I see those generals, I see those colonels who lost their pensions, I see the gentleman who protected you. At every protest, the gentleman from Łódź who insulted an innocent journalist. What moral right does he have to insult her? Even when he was president, Mr. Alexander Kwasniewski, it was me, when I was traveling abroad, who defended the President's authority. Although I will say publicly: I have never voted for him and I would not vote for him. That's the thing to protect your own country. Pope St. John Paul II when he came to his homeland, he kneeled and kissed the earth, because this land is our mother. I really appreciate Pociej... I'm sorry, Senator Pociej. We're different, but we're exchanging arguments. It's not always the same thing: everything is wrong, democracy is at stake... Or is anyone worried that you're gonna have to stand trial for Mirosławiec, for Smolensk, for a lot of other things? [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for your emotional appearance, but for me... Like I said, my parents raised me, my family was about really patriotic traditions, really. And I'm sorry. Let's finish... And let's burn this country, do as they did 100 years ago, it's about these three gentlemen... Let us do as in math: the assumption is the good of the Republic, and the thesis: how to do this? And let's leave these political feuds behind. Let us strengthen Poland, we do not weaken it in the Union. I won't use sharp words here, I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, if necessary, it's... Even about Mr. Senator Klich I said, here I said that he was a activist of Solidarity at war, also defending independence. Let's not change, Mr. Senator Klich, for change. Let's not change. 'Cause how am I supposed to... That's what I said when the senator was... the one from us at the steelworks... [[Gil.]] Gil. I also said a heroic boyfriend who was welded in a pipe by the SB. We're all really people of solidarity. If it weren't for this solidarity, what would it be in this Poland? Nothing. So let's focus on that. I'll take thousands too... Because I've passed many times around protestors and I've heard I'm not going to exchange politicians. They screamed, "Let's knock, let's make a mess!" So, do we want Poland to look like Ukraine? I apologize for this emotional speech, but I really wish Poland all the best, all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u124	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Until Senator Rooster spoke, I wanted to stick to what Senator Mroz praised me for, so I wanted to speak exclusively in substance. Mr. Senator, I think like everyone else... Thank you so much for saying that to me. And I think we all love our country when we're here. 'Cause it's like in Potopie... sorry, in Fire and Sword, where about Senator Kisiel, who is insulted by the soldiers and colonels of Wiśniowiecki, the envoy of the same Kisiel says that he may love this Poland differently, but loves it, and there is no doubt here. I see... And I hope the senator agrees. About what you said. What I'm not denying. You also respected President Kwasniewski, even though you didn't vote... Your colleagues prided themselves on throwing eggs at him. And that's true, too. But that's not why we're here, to be different, at least in those aspects where we may not be different. I'm here because after my speech, Mr. Fly pointed out a certain inaccuracies to me. And because, when we started our conversation three days ago, it turns out that she's confident between us, say, the chemistry of lawyers who can admit that they're wrong, I'm partly admitting that in fact in one of those articles that I mentioned... I said mouth. Article 7 11a. You can actually read it. But you have to read it and here the Minister will agree with me that it is implied That he is really sending this statement about the candidate to the marshal, and then we are talking about a copy. But it is not expressis verbis said that he has a duty to send it directly, you just have to read it, it is implied. And in this respect, I believe that this is a mistake. But absolutely, I'm not gonna back off from the fact that this road is, in fact, so constructed... If we assume that there will be political disputes, then it may be that, after all these political opinions, candidates will be just one option. With this one option, because the clubs will be... each club will be able to choose only one candidate. That may be because the committee will decide how many on this club list will enter the final pot. So? And you think there'll be a choice, even if it's voted 3/5? I hope that the Minister will respond to this precise charge at the end of our speeches. I'm very curious about what the belief is based on, that there won't be any of the problems I've been talking about here. I thank Senator Mroz once again in my, I think, substantive speech. Senator Cichoń is no longer here, and I wanted to thank him for his speech, because in relation to these numerous words, e.g. Senator Czerwinski, whose idea, idea, I understand so that we do not need any of these institutions for anything at all... Well, that was the conversation. That's where your questions came from. And just Senator Counselor Silence gave a pean about the Strasbourg tribunal, which is... I am, thanks to the wisdom of the Senate, in the Council of Europe, on the committee that elects these judges. We think of them, we cut out those who aren't fit for it. We've recently rejected all the judges from Turkey, over the divisions... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] Yeah, sorry, I'm almost done. So I hope that these international institutions, thanks to Senator Cichoni, have been shown in a slightly different light. This is important. It is also something on which we can build our freedom. And one last thing. You were talking about mistrust on our part. But look how you build it. First things first: Court, media, courts, prosecutor's office. Everything's fast. The president talked about it. That's why it was a veto because it was done too fast. Mr. President said that. My charge is as follows. Every 4 years we sit in the party, in the game. Because politics is a game. Yes? Each game has its own rules. And now let's compare that. To chess. We've been sitting in chess for 27 years. [[Mr. Senator, you're out of time.]] Last sentence. [[Last sentence, please.]] We say, we go out with a pawn, then we go out with a jumper. And on the other hand, there's boom, boom, boom, and a lady! In the middle of the game, you say we're playing checkers. And that's the charge. It's for you. [[And those were checkers?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] And that's the charge. It's for you. We started playing chess, and we ended up in checkers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u126	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go. [[But we haven't changed the constitution of this game.]] [[Applause]] Does Mr. Czerwinski have 5 minutes or 10 minutes? Ten, I think. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few comments. In the end, there will be attention to Senator Pociej's fight. [[No, it wasn't a fight.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first point is, can we get along in this Chamber on this bill? Well, I'm afraid not. I don't think so, because you just want things to be the way they were. You'll agree to anything, anything exactly, just to make sure nothing changes, and it's the way it was. We can listen to very flowery speeches here, but it's about keeping things from changing, and we just want to change that, because that's what our people want us to do. But I suppose yours, too. The voters. They come to our offices and say: the justice system is at the moment the weakest link of the state. This is also shown by the polls. You can argue with these polls, go ahead, but we want to change the whole justice system. And to change things, you have to have a method. The question is, where do I start? You can start chaotically... [[From the Constitutional Court, it's best.]] ...you can from the lowest levels, but so it is, that the judge of the district court does not have any effect on the KRS, while the KRS certainly has an impact on all the grades that are under it, on all the judicial degrees. That's why we start with the KRS and the Supreme Court. It's simply the economics of action. That's it. Another question of style. Ladies and gentlemen, we hear about this style all the time, this style of comrades here. I don't want to judge you for your style. Professor Wach has already hidden this tablet. Too bad, because I wanted to take a picture of him and spread it to my voivodship. Toby enjoyed the chatter. [[What sign?]] I'm talking about the one standing here. [[Well, that's...]] Okay, I'll bring the camera later. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this look like? This is a very good illustration of what you have observed, namely the complete breakdown of the freedom of assembly. Well, it's been processed recently, a year ago. We passed a bill that was supposed to ban the freedom of assembly. Well, the bantustan was supposed to be here. Well, here's an example. This is the freedom of assembly, that's how your predictions work. [[They work in Kraków.]] Well, it's different in Cracow. [[In Krakowskie Przedmieście.]] [[Krakow, not Krakow.]] Let's move on. The basic charge is unconstitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another question here why we do not refer this law to the Constitutional Tribunal to prove its constitutionality. Because she doesn't prove it. It is you who, if you wish, can draw up a motion and refer the bill to the Constitutional Court. And perhaps the Court will determine... [[Maybe.]] ...that some recipe is unconstitutional, perhaps not. We don't know that. [[I'm gonna take a bet...]] But calm down, calm down. No one in this Chamber, no one in Europe, no one from one organisation or another, no authority from the Civic Platform can determine whether the law is constitutional or not, because such a law in the Polish legal system has only the Constitutional Tribunal. You may express your opinions, but not your categorical statements. That's what I think you can say. And most of you say that's for sure. In general, the whole basis of this reasoning is the unconstitutionality of the law. That's all I've heard here. Or is she constitutional? What about your reasoning then? There are no other ideas for her touching. Oh, that's bad. That's really bad. I'll try to prove to you that this bill is constitutional, although I don't have to. I really don't need to, and I'd rather avoid it. But I guess you have to. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 main articles, or actually 1 article and 2 paragraphs. First: system, operating range and KRS mode And that's what I'm paying attention to. The law shall determine how its members are to be elected. There's a way of choosing. What does that mean? This means that the whole election-related way of choosing is defined by a law, not a constitution. It's who chooses, too. If the constitution doesn't define it, it's a bill. Of course, there are various presumptions that judges are going to choose themselves, but we're going to go further and explain why such claims are wrong. It is so important that there are many different institutions mentioned in the constitution, let's call it, bodies. For each of them it is clearly stated who chooses its members, what bodies do it. Sometimes one, sometimes three The President, the Senate and the Sejm. They choose, they point. The entity by which the body is formed is always indicated. So what's going on? Well, then it's like this... I'll quote you. Maybe this will lighten things up a little bit. Court of State. What does the law state in the case of the Court? Organisation and procedure. It doesn't specify how to choose. The devicer is rational. If it is specified who chooses, then possibly the internal acts of the authority that selects it are created. I'm sure there's no choice here. Come on. Chairman of NIK. The Act defines the organisation and mode of its operation, but cannot be chosen. RPO. The Ombudsman was here recently. The law defines the scope and manner of its operation. National Radio and Television Council. It's a little different here, which I'll pay attention to. The Act sets out the principles, mode of action, organisation and attention . detailed rules for appointment. Let me stress: detailed. It's clearly said. If we stick to the principles of legislative technology, legislative technology... The same terms are used for the determination of the same terms, and different terms are not meant by the same terms. This means that from the point of view of the body, I am talking about the mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 187 is the method of choice, and what else are the detailed rules of appointment. With detailed rules of appointment, the bill says how, but it no longer tells who, because it is defined in the Constitution. If the Constitution does not specify who, then the wording of the choice must be used. This wording is used in the Constitution Just once. That's speaking of system interpretation. That's all. Oh, I'm sorry. Yet the organs of the National Bank of Poland. The Act sets out the organisation, rules of operation, detailed rules of appointment and dismissal. The Constitution says who appoints the bodies of the National Bank of Poland. I may not have convinced you, but I'll say it again. There were different wordings here. The main issue of the Supreme Court, the Civil Chamber, in the 2004 judgment is that the most important thing is the interpretation of the language, that is, what is written rather than what we think. Unless the language interpretation is clearly contrary to the content of other standards, it leads to ridiculous social or economic consequences, grossly unfair decisions, or is clearly contrary to generally accepted moral standards. Ladies and gentlemen, I have shown you that this is the opposite. It's the only reading I've been talking about that makes the constitution incontrovertible. You're starting to make up for all this other ideology, give it a different meaning, and you're leading to contradictions. I think that's clear. We didn't write, it was the Supreme Court who spoke in this regard. The last question, but perhaps the most important one, is that constitutionality will probably be referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal one day. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were talking in general about the National Courts and Mr President of the National Courts referred to the document of the European Judicial Councils Network. This is a document that's on the KRS website. Anyone can get to know him. Very interesting conclusions come from this document. First, it was said that we could only act as the European model, i.e. the National Courts must have a majority of the Judges and that majority of the Judges must be elected by the Judges. This is the European model. Then it turned out that the principles of the European model did not meet the countries of western Europe. In Denmark, France, Malta and Portugal, the National Courts of Justice are not majority judges. The judges are a minority there. What does that have to do with this model? He's a zero-one: either most or a minority. Not much, even where judges are the majority, i.e. Italy, Spain and Belgium, are chosen by other bodies. Well, maybe not in Belgium. There's an even more complicated way out there. But it's in Italy and Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that Western Europe has far and deeply common principles, which the Council of Europe seems to have adopted for itself. He just rules his own rules. [[Time.]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm just gonna finish my thought. Okay? Then we'll have a little more time to figure it out. As a curiosity in the next episode, in the next 5 minutes, I will only mention the fact that, of course, there are also countries from Central Europe in the European Judicial Council Network and in them as one husband is so that the majority are judges elected by judges. The question is, why is it so weird? Why has Europe been so divided that the countries of Central Europe meet the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the countries of Western Europe, not even halfway? That'll be on the next episode, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. That's the second speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u129	Sustained, Mr. Senator. I'm talking to Senator Czerwinski. The reservations we have raised for the amendment of the Assembly Act, because it has indeed limited the freedom of assembly. And in this part, Mr. Senator, in which she has not limited, we are dealing with a completely new phenomenon, namely that this right to assembly is interpreted by law enforcement services to the detriment of citizens. The documentation we have drawn up and in which each case is documented, described, identified, shows that at the moment there are at least 619 political proceedings that are taking place in relation to citizens and citizens exercising their right to assembly. I think there's more of them, but we've been able to document 619 cases where... as a lawyer, you know what that means. If someone is accused of being a criminal offence or a criminal code for attending these assemblies, the prosecutor is either the police or the prosecution, depending on which law is applied. Is it possible, in a democratic state, a country which recognises civil rights, including the right to assembly, for those who, for example, one year before, in December, on the night of 16 to 17 December, they protested against the illegal adoption of the budget and other laws in the Column Hall, were coercive measures applied? Is it permissible for legal consequences to be applied to these persons? Is it permissible for these people to be dragged into court? They go to court and in political processes, including collective processes, which is a novelty in Polish public life, they win. Why? Because the courts are independent. That's because the judges are unattended. And what happens when you make them dependent on political will, we can all imagine. And that is why, for example, because of this situation, we believe that the limitation, and even the abolition of the independence of courts, of the independence of judges is dangerous. Senator Rooster. I assume that in this courtroom most of them And I'm sure that's the majority of Senator Rooster's names. They are people who really care about Poland. They are not here because of money, they are not here because of prestige, but they are here because of their many years of dedication to Polish affairs. Senator Rooster is one of those. And it actually refers to our past before 1989. But the experience of that time also to the senator, like me, should suggest far-reaching caution. I will tell you about my case, a twenty-one-year-old girl who is interned, who is transferred at some point to a branch for the arrested under pretext, quote: public believing and disgusting the primate authorities of PSL... excuse me, PRL... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Wow, you hit it.]] ...the authorities of the Polish People's Republic know what we're talking about. The end of the quote, and he is brought to trial in ad hoc mode. If we had been tried before the suspension of martial law and the final sentence had passed before the suspension of martial law, then we would have been tried, me and three friends, for the punishment of 4 and 6 years in prison. But during this trial, martial law was suspended and other political directives went to court. Therefore, the Military Garrison Court in Rzeszow acquitted us... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...knowing the argument of defense that the prison in which we sang songs, including interned songs, is not a public place. If these political directives had not been amended, the same court would have decided otherwise. And that is why, among other things, the memory of that experience, I observe everyone present in this Chamber, including you, Senator, before putting independent courts into the hands of political power. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Any power.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u130	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost. You're welcome. Are you a senator? There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I am sorry that I had to leave, but I represented the Senate at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance, and I always try to stay after my speech, because it happens that someone is referring, and then it is easier to comment later in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part was political because the majority of you talked about politics, but the second part is more substantive. Well, although it's hard to make a substantive point, 'cause I think it's 100%. My predecessors did it, and that's perfect: Mr. Senator Silence and Mr. Senator Czerwiński. They've come out of such a basic case, from Art. 187, and have shown that we, as parliamentarians, have the right to make such a bill. Senator Cichoń said that in many countries enforcement, i.e. some executive authority, has the right to appoint such judges, and it has nothing to do with the lack of independence, it is confirmed by international organizations, and the excellent logical reasoning of Senator Czerwiński showed that this line of reasoning, which was applied by the authors of this law, is fully acceptable. I was a little amused by Senator Pociej, who spoke, but it's as completely on the margins as he cut out the Turkish judges... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was also a political body that decided that one or the other judges could be in this international court. Thus, the very form of choice or the mode of selection does not determine the independence and independence of the judges who will rule. After all, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that after the bill has been passed, those judges who rule will rule in regional, district, appeal, administrative courts. Here to say this, nothing will change for these judges. But there will actually be a change in the path of promotion in the sense that it will already be decided by the new composition of the KRS, which will be chosen. And that will be decided by the judges as well. And you know that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, one more comment. The President has proposed a majority of 3/5. We, as Law and Justice, do not hide that it was a very difficult proposition for us. Not because we are afraid of the majority of 3/5, but because we are aware that with these political divisions in the Sejm, it will be very difficult to get the majority of 3/5. Very difficult. Because if we don't agree on the basics, it's gonna be hard to agree on the personalities. But despite this difficult situation and certain expectations of the President, we have adopted this majority of 3/5. There's the second step because we can't be blocked. But there are these vacancies we've been talking about, and the judges are also entitled to a promotion. And the KRS, as the council that decides it, must act. So this is the second step in the selection of judges to the KRS, and I always stress: judges, not politicians, because it often dies somewhere like this by an absolute majority. But there's security, too. That is, some of these judges will be able to choose the opposition. Let us also remember that in addition to these judges there are also other people from the public office who enter the KRS. This KRS is a little larger in number. But even if you're not so worried about Senator Pociej... If 100% Those judges... It won't be, but if it were 100% Those judges... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Yes. Last sentence. ...selected a majority, today's Law and Justice, so let's remember that we choose judges from different courts. District, district, I don't know who's gonna be reported there. Perhaps by President Wałęsa, for whom no one will question their independence and independence. There will certainly be no political processes, ladies and gentlemen. These are ancient times. It wasn't our rule, and it certainly isn't. Thank you very much. [[Just like the Court.]] [[But the National Judicial Council doesn't rule, it's a decision.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! The bill we're discussing is an extremely important law. This is another law whose intentions are clear. Previously passed law on common courts gave full power to the Minister of Justice, who is the Attorney General, is a politician when it comes to filling all heads of courts, directions, departments, courts of all levels and appeals. I heard during the discussion: what is it about, we call and dismiss judges, and those new ones whom we are calling are also judges. But if someone calls and appeals and does not have to explain it, he has power over those called back. If someone doesn't understand it, he doesn't understand the basic mechanisms of power. We're not naive. If anyone in this House thinks he's naive, let him do it. I understand he's doing it at his own expense. I do not belong to such people because I know the price of the dependent courts and those judges who follow the instructions of authority. I've been practicing on my own. And that's why the National Judicial Council was set up, so that there would be a buffer between politicians or executives and courts. This buffer you're trying to wipe out. You say you've corrected this bill, 3/5... yes, it was a step in the right direction. But what's next? If it's not 3/5, it's the usual majority. Okay. And there is a declaration and an expectation that the opposition will accept it. [[With a guarantee to the opposition.]] Did you talk to the opposition? Have you talked or are you just discussing here in the O.R.? I mean, you don't argue because you're just going out and talking about your rations. If you want the opposition to participate, you need to talk to this opposition, and you need to talk to this opposition earlier. Minister, it's for you and the President... You said the president consulted the opposition. I mean, he met once and said... [[She didn't come.]] That's a consult? What were the attempts to talk and discuss, what were the later attempts to communicate? Has anyone talked to us? The day before yesterday at half past three, you passed the bill without amendment. It was a motion from the Senator of the PiS, who is the head of the Senate Club. Is this a discussion? Is that a way to discuss it? And do you think the opposition will accept and enter this National Judicial Council under such conditions? Then you're wrong. After all, the declarations have already been made. Not because we don't want to be part of it, just because you didn't let us participate in it so we could influence this bill. After all, the discussion of this law after the presidential veto was within the framework of the PiS, between the president who is from the PiS, is related to the PiS and the president of the PiS. So the discussion was between you two. If you wanted us to participate in this and to change the National Council of Courts together, you had to do it in a different way, in a way that would allow us not only to say what we did not like, but also to influence this law, on this and on another. No, that wasn't the intention, that wasn't the intention at all. The Venice Commission says that this bill is a law that goes in the wrong direction. The European Parliament, the Senate's Legislative Office, the Sejm... I've heard from the State Department lately. State Department! It's not just the European Union, it's the State Department of our military ally. It doesn't matter. These outside voices aren't meaningless. I, of course, hear accusations that we are complaining abroad, as if the European Union were outside of us, is an external force. I have been accused of this before, said: but as it is, you take it outside, outside, and after all Polish matters need to be discussed in Poland, only in Poland. I also remember the discussion about American sanctions, sanctions that hit everyone, not just the party and the government. And the underground management, the Interim Coordinating Commission has supported these sanctions, because if that's how it's done, then it's the right thing to do... then power should be affected. I just want to make one more very important point for me. And it's not just a formal matter, although it seems formal. Those 2 laws we're investigating At the moment, we are proceeding over the KRS Act, and then we will proceed over the Supreme Court Act, the President vetoed. I thought it was obvious that first the Sejm had to look at the veto and must either accept it or reject it. What's going on? We're investigating these laws, we're about to pass laws, the president's probably gonna sign these laws, and the veto isn't settled. That's putting a case on your head. For the first time in Parliament, something like this happens in the Seym. So the new laws will be passed, and the veto will not be settled? And what happens if the veto isn't rejected? What's the legal status? Will there be two laws? How will the law and institutions that guarantee compliance with this law work? It's a Horrendum! I heard an answer from the Minister that the new laws were kind of a veto. No, Minister. The veto must be voted out, the veto must be voted out! After all, when it comes to the way a veto is voted, it is enshrined in the Constitution. Issues concerning legislative initiatives are also enshrined in the Constitution. Here's the legal order. And he's logical, because it's not just about the law, it's also about logic. That the issue of vetoes must first be settled, and then, if these vetoes are not rejected, the laws may be amended... but if they are rejected, the laws may also be amended. You're setting a precedent. You're creating a precedent that will allow you to deal with the president's vetoes. And that, and the next president. In the same way... You mean what? You are waiting until this term of office of the Sejm is over, and since the veto is not written... I mean, there's going to be a discount because the veto isn't written as this element... [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] ...then it's time to go back. It doesn't just have a formal meaning... i.e. It's a formal matter, but it'll also be... a precedent for the president. I no longer want to talk about shortening my term of office or the consequences of shortening my term of office. In this regard, I will take the floor in the next item. But I am surprised that the ministers, the presidential ministers, are moving on to the issue of unfulfilled tweets on the agenda and pretending that nothing has happened. It's done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue. May I?]] Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u135	I'd like to correct something. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, said the committee's deliberations lasted until 3:00 a.m. this morning. I would like to point out that out of these 9 hours the members of the PiS and the applicants took 1.5 hours, and 7 hours spoke by the members of the Platform and their supporters. [[They're more inquisitive than you.]] [[And what does that change?]] [[Don't tell me we're limiting someone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u136	Mr. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a few words of comment related to the two previous statements. The State of the Platform accuses us and this bill that it may have the consequences of grieving for the independence of the judges and for the independence of the courts. You're talking about future and uncertain events. It may be, but it doesn't have to be. And it has already happened, as the press has written all over Poland, a clear violation of the principle of independence of judges. The so-called one. The judge on the phone, from Gdansk, was acting under the rule of this law, which is now in force. So here's my question: where was the Council of Europe then? [[Oh, come on.]] [[That's bullshit.]] Where was the Venice Commission then? Why didn't she intervene then, alert the system... [[But did she put you on the phone...]] ...the dimension of justice rots, at least in this one place? [[Quiet, please.]] And where were you then, Marshal Borusewicz of Gdansk? [[An independent, independent...]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to get back to the previous course of thought. I had 10 minutes, I ran out of time, so once again I will remind you that those countries that are associated with the European Judicial Council Network, i.e. Western European countries, let's be clear about this. On average, they follow the Council of Europe's recommendations. They just do what they want. As they wish, they agree on their powers and how to appoint a judicial council. It is different when it comes to Central Europe. Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia comply with the Council of Europe's recommendations. The question is why? Are there two countries in Europe? One must meet the screwed-up It's either invented or it's invented. And the other isn't? What's it like? I'm gonna try a little short, 'cause there's only five minutes left... [[It's more like four.]] ...to explain to you what it's like. Namely, I was once an envoy. During this term of office, during which I was a Member, a law on national and ethnic minorities and on regional language was passed in 2001 and 2005. And then I saw exactly what the outside pressure was to make this bill. Then he ruled the SLD with the outhouses... [[That's a very good bill.]] ...and at least he was defending himself... Well, I've seen what it's like to introduce a law that is supposed to be a standard in the European Union. Because this European Union was shown to us as an example, it was shining in our eyes to this European Union, and it turned out that for example. in Germany, yes, there is a law on national and ethnic minorities I don't know his name, but there's a law in this area. Only that Germany does not recognise the Polish national minority. They consider only four: Sinti, Roma, Frisian and Danish in one of the federal states. So what? And it was explained to us at the time. It's also interesting, because it's been 12 years and we can check it out. The other party will certainly agree to this request and the same rights as the Germans in Poland will give Poles in Germany. Encouraged by this carrot, we showed how European we are, but the other side was also supposed to remember that it was in Europe. So what? Nothing. And we still don't, I mean. Poles, the status of a national minority in Germany, then Poles have no rights. They continue to pay for their education in Polish. Few of this, the legislation of Göring, which took away the property of the Polish Union in Germany in 1940, is still in force, fascist and Nazi legislation. And it was supposed to be so beautiful after that bill, after it was passed. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a similar case here. Besides, we see it with our own eyes. Some kind of political terrorism has developed. In quotes, of course, don't take it literally. I would say to the new European countries who have recently joined the group of those supposedly civilized: you are to act today as we tell you to do. It's a kind of legal neocolonialism. I can tell from here. Is there a trade tax in France? There it is. Why can't Poland have a commercial tax? Because she has to buy into civilized countries, she has to go through some part of this neocolonialism, and perhaps later she will be able to announce how her possible Council of Europe and the European Union will allow it. [[Step forward, step forward from the Union!]] That's what you said. Okay, we'll remember. [[Mr. Senator, what do you propose?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, bravo Platform! We're waiting for more passwords. [[That's neocolonialism.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this neocolonialism is becoming absurd. You can't cut a spruce in a forest that's not a nature reserve, it's not a national park, it's a cultural forest, planted with the hands of a man, a forest that's been attacked by a barker, and which is going to attack further, because the barker has become a European matter. [[It's a barker to settle.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: this neocolonialism of law, this attempt to set Poland as a country about supposedly the same rights, but not quite, is very contagious unfortunately. He's no longer in the legal area... [[Time.]] ...but in the area of the facts. And I would ask you to bear this in mind when adopting this law: we are a sovereign country, we have the right to our own rights, and no one will take that right away from us. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. I will ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak and then Senator Marek Borowski. There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Mr. President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I guess our discussion will go to record. Because I tried to remind you, but given yesterday and today, it's probably the last hour of discussion... [[The committee meeting was.]] Well, I'm not talking about the committee meeting. This is the next hour of discussion. And I think that all the arguments that appear in public space have been repeated and reworked here many times. I find it most amusing when I hear there was no time to get acquainted with these projects. The projects have been on the Sejm's website, if I remember correctly, since the end of September 2017. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[How long have they been hanging?]] So they've been hanging for months... [[They're different.]] [[Friday...]] [[But there were others.]] If that's what we're talking about... If you couldn't get to know them for two and a half months, then what can you do about it? [[You can do it. You can do it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this in this way: The National Council of the Court is an irreparable political child of the Round Table. And it's even written in Wikipedia, so read yourself an article on the National Judicial Council. [[Talking in the O.R.]] What does it say? We read: The National Council of the Court of Justice, a collegial body upholding the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The National Judicial Council was established in 1989 as a result of the provisions of the Round Table. It was established on the basis of the Law of 20 December 1989. On 20 April 1990, President Wojciech Jaruzelski presented nominations to the first 79 judges of regional, regional and military courts at the request of the National Courts. Further laws on KRS were adopted in 2001 and 2011. That's how this Wikipedia article starts. Now one thing has to be said: nowhere in the Constitution I'm talking about it because there's an argument about the alleged unconstitutionality of this law. It doesn't say that judges are to choose judges. There's no such thing in the constitution. In the Constitution is written, and yes, the National Council of the Court of Justice, but it does not say that in Poland we have a system consisting of some form of casteism of the judicial environment. It's not written anywhere. Therefore, if we are talking about the Constitution, if we are talking about the three divisions of the authorities, it must be said that right now we have a situation in which there is no balance in this three divisions of the authorities. Parliamentarians sitting here, senators... Each of us has won in our own constituency, has social support. Members of the Sejm come from universal elections, proportionate, in accordance with the principles of a five-adjective ordination. They have a social mandate. The government, or executive authority, is the emanation of the will of society expressed in elections. But what impact do citizens have on who will be the judge, how justice works, how judicial careers work? No. None at all. So we see that the principle of proportionality within the three divisions of power has been shaken, right here at the source. And that argument is not taken into account. If I understand the President's intention correctly, this reform is also about the social factor, the participation of the public could also be present in the functioning of the judiciary. In what form? If the Sejm chooses members of the National Judicial Council from the bodies described in the Act and in the Constitution on the basis of the rules laid down in the Act, what kind of assassination is there? Will they be politicians who will be pointed out? Will it be from among the Members who will be elected, except for the few members of the Senate and the Sejm, who sit on the National Council of Courts with the key? Oh, no, they're gonna be a judge. And was the National Judicial Council ever representative of the judicial community? For 28 or 27 years, during which it functioned, she sat, High Izbo, as long as my memory does not confuse me, I asked the specialists in this area, in three words: three judges of the regional courts. And where do the most judges in Poland decide in what judicial structure? District Courts. So was it a representative group even for the judge's environment, for 10,000 judges of the Brightest Republic of Poland? Well, it wasn't. What about the term that Minister Mucha spoke of yesterday? Overinterpretation, expanding power, gaining by the environment, which one of the leading and prominent figures herself called an extraordinary caste of people... That's why I use the concept of castocracy. And nowhere is it described in the constitution, nowhere, in any law is there a justification... Now we have to answer the question of whether we should have such judgments as Senator Rulewski once said, commenting on the judgment or order of the court in the case of Mrs Sawicka, former P.O. Member of the accused of corruption: she was lucky, evidently our sympathy, our judge. That was Senator Rulewski's statement... [[I didn't say that.]] ...who dresses up in the robes of the first defender of independence and independence of the courts today. Is this inscription displayed during the July demonstrations on the Supreme Court building? These are our courts... Ours means whose? The ones who felt like they owned the Third Republic? Are the courts for the citizens, or are the courts for ours? These are questions that the public is looking for answers to. I would like to thank the President very much from this tribune for doing this work. As you can see, this work, which has been undertaken, faces resistance, and the mechanism of this resistance is as follows: on the one hand, it is said that reform is needed. Nobody's questioning that now. On the other hand, you want to do it in such a way that there is no reform to keep the status quo. I would like to remind Prime Minister Tusk, President Tusk, who spoke in an interview in TVN24. At the time when he was Prime Minister, attempts were made to reform the justice system. How did it end? And how did it end? [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's very distinctive. The government of Donald Tusk hid his head in the sand, and for the sake of peace he did not touch it, though he intended it. Your first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, recently submitted a draft law on the Supreme Court, a project which largely duplicates the ideas that were included in our vetoed by your President, the Law on the Supreme Court of July 2017. There were similar mechanisms written there. First, it was claimed that e.g. Disciplinary chamber or such solutions are not necessary at all, but it turns out that they are needed. And finally... anyway, the professor has a lot of experience as a judge, as a lawyer, as a legal theorist, as an expert in law and as the first president of the Supreme Court. High Izbo, I think these laws are needed. May I say that in my constituency, the common question is: when will the change finally take place? Senator, when's the last time there's gonna be a change? Members' or senators' shifts are being followed by people who feel victims... Right or wrong? I don't want to judge that right now, because every case is different. But they just feel that this is an injustice, not a justice system. And that's why it seems advisable for us to adopt these laws as soon as possible so that they can reach the desk of the President and the President. In the context of his participation in the legislative process and as an applicant, and as the first citizen to terminate the legislative process, he wanted to sign the laws that would leave this House within the next two days. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. [[I would like to address Senator Jackowski's statement.]] There you go. [[I'm going because I didn't put the card...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, well, to everyone...]] Mr. Senator... [[Yes? Oh, the corrigendum's still there.]] Mr. Senator, maybe after Senator Marek Borowski's speech. Okay? [[I can.]] Then please... [[But I can step down.]] No, no. There you go. And then the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u141	Senator! High Izbo! Well, there are other voters coming to every senator. I've got voters coming to me asking me how it happened. And what can you do? That a party which has won several votes more than the required majority destroys the Constitutional Tribunal and makes a leap to the courts. So let us not move what the voters say, because some say yes and others say otherwise. Now I'd like to... But there is no Senator Rooster. I just wanted to say that the praise of Senator Rooster, which, to say the least, I have received, is worth more than money. And that's what I'm trying to say. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now, of course, I will refer to Senator Czerwinski's statement, because... [[But I wasn't bragging.]] No, no, you're not, you're not. But I will refer to Senator Czerwinski's statement, the first one, because the first one was consistent. The other one was a little chaotic. Well, this statement, very tight, which you presented here, reminds me a little bit of the scene from one of the first Indiana Jones movies. There was this scene where Harrison Ford, who is that Indiana Jones, suddenly comes across this big, strong man who's swinging a baton and definitely wants to beat him up. And we're all scared because I don't think that Indiana Jones is gonna make it. All of a sudden, Indiana Jones pulls out a colt, shoots twice, and it rains. And that's it. Now there's more or less a mapping of this scene. Well, you've made a very, very precise statement here, completely disregarding the authentic interpretation, the historical interpretation. It's completely out of the As well as the opinion of all foreign and national institutions, Polish branches of law, outstanding constitutionalists and comments made by several professors twice to the constitution, etc. Good. I would like to say to you that in 2007 the Constitutional Tribunal spoke about the election and election procedures of the National Judicial Council and said the following. The Constitution directly governs the principle of election of judges to the National Courts of Justice, thus determining the structure of the personal council. It makes it clear that judges may be elected by judges without indicating any additional features which would condition their membership of the Board. That's it. Period. [[Applause]] Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, And so Let's get this over with. Of course, it was a bad Court, so today you can say everything. Minister Mucha, as well as Senator Czerwiński, said that since ruling what is constitutional and what is not, this is the Court, therefore we are here. Let's not do it. This kind of reasoning leads to such a conclusion that the greatest constitutional folly can be proclaimed, because there is a Court and we will refer it there. Oh, no. Definitely not. If everyone tells you Not one person, not two, not three, but everyone tells you or almost all of you that you're drunk, then don't argue, just go to sleep, just, simply. And that's not the kind of bill that's gonna be passed. To the Constitutional Tribunal, yes, when there are some very serious differences of opinion between specialists, between professionals, between institutions... there is no such thing here. And going back to the Court, which we now have... Minister Mucha... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...let's imagine a country in which one party acquires a majority, a small one, in parliament and then by means of this majority destroys the tribunal, introduces its people there, partially incompetent notabene, and so to speak, committed to this group. And then, when anything is passed, and the opposition protests and says that it is unconstitutional, it answers: please refer it to the constitutional tribunal and we will see. If we imagine such a country... In your opinion, in such a situation, can we talk about a law-abiding state, can we talk about the fact that the opposition has any rights here, any possibilities? And, unfortunately, as far as this Constitutional Court is concerned, as to the qualifications of the President... [[Time's up, time's up.]] ...this Court, we know what it looks like. As we look at the judges who are ruling there on certain matters... These are the stores that have been chosen accordingly. And the hardest man there is Judge Muszyński. He's the rapporteur, he's the lead. Indeed, he has a lot of legal competence, although his behaviour before he was elected to the Constitutional Tribunal did not definitely predestinate him there. Finally, as far as this choice is concerned, I have said it and I will repeat it again: it can be assumed that Members will be elected by judges, yes, but let these candidates be presented only by judges. Then we'll be fairly calm. But it's not in this project and in this bill. That's not true. I repeat once again: there are Delegated Judges who are not judges, only officials of the Minister of Justice, and there are candidates submitted by 2 000 citizens, which is actually by politicians, because 2 000 citizens are not just gonna get together. [[Time, Mr. Sanator.]] Now, Mrs. Marshal, last sentence. What is the fundamental difference between the choice of Members and the choice of Judges? Well, we have judges like that. the one who judged Mariusz Kaminski, like the judge from Krakow, who acquitted doctors, Professor Dudek and others connected with the alleged, so to speak, leading to the death of Minister Ziobra's father... [[You've been talking for eight minutes, Senator. Go ahead and finish it.]] Yes, sir. ... We've got judges from the Iustitii and from Themis and so on. They may be subpoenaed by 25 judges, but they will not be chosen. [[Mr. Senator...]] And if they choose the judges themselves, they will follow... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...before all qualifications, because the judge will never report... [[Thank you very much.]] And he won't vote for a candidate who's a bad judge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u142	Mr. Senator, thank you so much. And Senator Rulewski's correction mode. Out of place, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The first President of the Court of Appeal in Krakow passed through the KRS...]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, are we turning the Senate into a club room and we're gonna talk like this? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, please, in corrigendum mode. And then you're Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Jackowski asked me to state in his speech, recalling my name, that I pointed to the almost direct influence of the Platform's power on the judge who judged the case of Mrs Sawicka, Mrs Sawicka. Well, I'm gonna straighten it out: my statement was in conjecture mode, and it came down to the fact that perhaps the judge remains in the sphere of influence of the Civic Platform's views, and that it was certainly not the sphere of influence of the views of the PiS. Later, I added something else, but... it would be nice if you didn't apologize so much, which brought the President's Office's attention to the fact that it is highly inappropriate to use as the creator of the reform of prosecutor Peterowicz. Those tutors just turned out to be two. Or even one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u145	First of all, I would like to say that these voices on the side of the PiS making the Round Table surprise me, and I am very surprised. After all, Lech Kaczyński, appointed by Lech Wałęsa, participated in the meeting in Magdalena, while Lech Kaczyński and Jarosław Kaczyński participated in the Round Table meetings. I don't blame them because I think it's necessary to talk to the other side. And if anyone here thinks the Round Table was a bad thing... I hear here about some irregular bed from the Round Table, so let me remind you that the Round Table, round table arrangements have also created the Senate. Then what are we here for? We're sitting here... [[From the wrong bed...]] ...in the chairs, from an unrightly bed? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, gentlemen of the Senators... Well, a little reflection, also in your own interest. [[But the Seym was a contract.]] But the Senate was elected democratically, fully democratically and was the result of the Round Table. And I'm gonna tell you what maybe Wikipedia doesn't tell everyone that it was an idea... [[Voice from the room: Who?]] ...Kwasniewski. Yes, it was Mr. Kwasniewski's idea, the later president. But I want to get back to this discussion. Well, I was a little surprised by the situation in which after yesterday's exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki, in which he stated that he would respect the judgments of the Court, the judgment of the Court concerning the clipping of the Białowieża Forest, I hear the voice of the Senator PiS who denies it. Well, Mr. Senator, I understand... what's going on at the PiS? I thought there was a full consultation in the PiS, and when the Prime Minister appears and changes his attitude to the Court's judgment, it was... it was settled somehow. Besides, I am surprised at the situation in which the European Union is treated every once in a while by the PiS senators as the Soviet Union. [[It's been five minutes.]] Well, of course you can treat her so much that she's forcing us, forcing us. But there's a difference... [[Nobody treats her like that.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] ...between the Union and the Soviet Union. [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yeah, I'm almost done. Last sentence. There's a difference. Because when England decided to go to Brexit, it decided to leave the Union, it was the Brussels tanks... [[They're gone.]] ...they didn't go to the Thames. Well, that's the small difference. And going back to the bill, I'm going to say that I want to make sure that there's no doubt about my relationship with this bill... [[Time's up a long time ago.]] ...a motion to reject this bill. That's one conclusion. And the second proposal, which I have already tabled, makes it impossible for judges posted to the Ministry of Justice and subject to service dependency to operate in the National Council to be elected to the National Council and to be elected. Well, it can't be that the judge whose boss is the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, will decide on the composition, the admission, the... [[Thank you, Senator...]] ...who are getting a judge's profession, which is also a judge's promotion. This is absolutely impossible. Therefore, Mrs. Marshal, I am filing a motion for rejection. I've already filed a second application before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u146	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go... [[Mrs. Marshal, can I correct your Marshal's statement in the meantime?]] Yes, please. [[One sentence.]] Good. [[But I didn't replace you. I didn't specifically replace you.]] [[You pointed me out enough.]] [[But how did I point you out?]] [[With all my hand.]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal! Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u147	Mr. Marshal, I asked you to present your commitment to condemning Judge Milewski with a close Mr. Gdansk, and not to speak about the barkers. [[I don't know your judge Milewski, I haven't had any contact with him, so please don't impertinate me, Senator.]] But it's Mr. Milewski, I believe he was suggested to act on Mr. Donald Tusk's orders. Is that what happened? [[He may be a friend of yours, but he's not a friend of mine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u148	Quiet, please. Now Mr. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] I thought that I would no longer speak here today, but I was mobilized to do so, first, by my colleagues, and secondly, by Senator Czerwinski and partly by Senator Jackowski. First, for starters, I want to say yes. There was a dialogue here between Senator Augustine and Senator Czerwinski on the European Union. And I had the impression that when Senator Augustine screamed to leave the European Union, Senator Czerwiński accepted it quite positively. Well, I'm just surprised that the facts I'd like to recall are like this. The first fact is that Law and Justice in 2004, when we had a referendum on accession to the European Union, encouraged us to vote on it. [[Nothing's changed.]] One second. Only the League of Polish Families called for a vote. And that vote didn't have a very bad result when it came to the number of votes. That's the first fact. And the second is this: it seems to me that today is the next anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon by the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. Well, if, as Senator Czerwiński puts it, all this is slavery and enslavement, which does not even allow us to cut out the tree that should be cut out, then it can be said that to some extent these shackles have also established Law and Justice for Poles. I therefore understand that these claims are also in a large part of the law and justice, because the Treaty of Lisbon was rather something that the Union was more integrated than something that relaxed these bonds. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that there were voices here that we had time to get to know these projects. That is not true, because even the representatives of the President's Office did not fully know what amendments on the part of the Law and Justice to these projects would be tabled. I no longer want to remind you of the famous statements made by Mr Peterowicz to the Minister, but it was precisely that the Minister seemed surprised by the amendments to the Law and Justice that had been tabled at the last minute. So don't tell us that we're going to get to know the final shape of these settings, they have time, because that's not true. Even the President's Chancellery didn't know exactly what the shape of these laws would be. And finally, the third thing, at the end. Even if we were to assume that from the constitutional side of these laws there is no doubt And in my opinion, the issue of Mr Duda's failed veto of July this year, as has been mentioned many times here, is raised, for example, by the issue of Mr Duda's unattended veto. This is another point that is worth mentioning here. I will quote such a dialogue from my own experience. I'm talking to a PiS supporter, a voter of PiS from Wielkopolska, who, when you introduced a law on the possibility of exchange of court directors, tells me: the courts work badly, it must be changed, it must be improved, well that this law has been passed. So I'm asking this piss supporter, do you know who's head of the piss in Wielkopolska? Yes. Are you sure that if this person makes the candidates for the courts, the people she reports will make these courts work better or worse? And then this person who is in favour of PiS and is my interlocutor, says, well, no, as this Iksiński will point out to the candidates for the heads of individual courts, then surely these courts will work even worse than now. And that's what we're worried about: you're gonna fill this up with staff that... we're afraid of in addition to the constitutional issues. Judge Przyłębska, the President of the Constitutional Court, is an example of this. Talk to yourself in the Poznań judicial community about the legal powers of Judge Przyłębska, talk about what they think about... [[Not nice, not nice, Mr. Senator.]] ...her colleagues... [[It's true.]] ...what her fellow judges think. Well, I'm just reporting what they're telling me, say, voters. You're calling for voters here, so I have the right. They're the voters, too. And I am afraid that, unfortunately, with these regulations, the case of Judge Przyłębska, of course at lower levels, because this place in the Constitutional Court is already occupied... [[Mr. Senator, I call for moderation.]] ...will be multiplied. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u150	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: There's still...]] [[Professor.]] Professor Stanisławek. There you go. [[What time is the break?]] [[5:30.]] [[I'm not gonna make it.]] You won't make it in time, senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, to drive and not lead to a crime...]] [[A voice from the courtroom: But he has a familiar judge, that'll do it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A little bit, Mrs. Marshal, I don't feel very well, because I don't hear any support for the Senate here in the back. I don't know what happened. You don't know anything about what happened? [[The Sovereign has gone home.]] Thank you very much. So dinner made the meeting... [[Maybe he wants to...]] ...which bothered us, went to eat. I would like to comment on a few points. The president's veto is still under discussion. Look at it from a completely different angle. If the president gives the first laws that are vetted... If after the change he gives these laws again, I apologize very much, doesn't the president have the right to give the same laws again in a different version? On what matter would the Sejm have over these vetoes... what would the Sejm have done with these vetoes again, so legally? Is this settled? Do you know that? Because you don't know what to do with it, and you say that the Sejm didn't actually accept the veto or reject it. [[Return these two laws to the president.]] So... ... [[Mr. Senator!]] ...the legislature again sent to the Sejm a revised bill, which was being considered and which we received. That is not enough, I must tell you that we may not even consider this law. Because legally, if the Senate doesn't deal with the bill within 30 days, she automatically goes to the President's signature. And please pay attention to how democratic legislation is, because we are talking about this. We listen to each other without organization behind our backs. The law on the system of universal courts, which was intended to improve the work of courts and, in my opinion, improves. Yes, we may wonder if everything is going according to our purposes. The Minister has dismissed several Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts, including three Presidents of the Courts, who directly dealt with the case of Minister Ziobra's father. For me, it is a very clumsy combination of private affairs with the management of 2 de facto huge organizations: the prosecution and justice. It's really a big responsibility. And I do not know whether in some sense it does not affect the opinion that we have in Poland and outside Poland, that this opinion, unfortunately crooked, has gone. On the other hand, we have the CBA detention of many court directors for, unfortunately, misappropriation in terms of money, directors from Kraków, Oświęcim, Tarnow, Nowy Sącz, Chrzanów and Olkusz. They were stopped by the CBA. And now please answer me 'cause it's still talking about an undemocratic state or not applying the law 'cause if someone who steals money is the director or the president of the court, they're not going to be detained. I would like to say a little more about the subject that Senator Czerwiński has already discussed several times. I keep hearing that whatever we're doing is political. Every time there's a debate in the Senate about laws, I hear we're politicizing all these laws. I went to a bit of trouble and, with the help of the senator, wrote out what the matter was like in other countries in terms of lawmaking and supervision of this law. In Belgium to the National Judicial Council It's all a little bit different in there, but it has a similar range of 22 members being appointed from the judge's community and 22 from outside. They're being called by the Senate. I wonder if the Senate is political or unpolitical. Denmark: 11 members shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice after consulting the Board for the Appointment of Judges. France: 22 members of the 8 are outside the judicial environment. I see that Deputy Minister Warchoł is nodding his head. Minister Ziobro presented this in the Seym. Ireland: for 17 members, 9 are judges and 8 are so-called. representatives of civil society. There are two chambers in Italy. One is the Board of Administrative Courts, and the other is the Supreme Council of Judges, where 16 are elected by judges and prosecutors, but 8 are elected by parliament. I think it's politicized. [[No.]] In the Board of Administrative Courts, the Parliament shall elect 10 judges from 4 politicians. In Portugal, 7 judges are elected by judges, 2 are elected by the President, 7 are elected by a political parliament. In Spain, 12 judges are elected by a political parliament and 8 are outside the judicial environment. I have this appeal to the opposition: let us talk constructively. There were a lot of good voices here. If you're only a destructive opposition. I'd even say "non-democratic opposition." We will not be able to make a good law. Only a strong, good, factual opposition makes it possible to be a good law and rule well. So that I appeal: let us rule. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u152	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Borowski, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Alexander Pociej, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative or one of the invited guests like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. [[At the committee meeting.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 34 to 20 minutes 01]] High Senate, resume your session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the thirty-sixth anniversary of the martial law. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims of martial law. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine to them forever."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Your Senate, we proceed with the second order of business: the Supreme Court Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 685 and the report of the Commission In print No 685 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Professor. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions considered a draft law on the Supreme Court at its meeting. At the meeting, the project was submitted by the representative of the applicant, the office of the President of the Republic of Poland. The opinions of the Legislative Office and the opinions of invited NGOs and central government bodies, the Ombudsman, the National Judicial Council, the Prosecutor General, the Association of Judges stuitia and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights were presented. In addition, there were individuals invited by senators. In the discussion and in these opinion-making trends, there were mainly criticisms of this law, because these positive aspects of assumptions and individual provisions were first, as I said, presented by the Minister representing the office of the President of the Republic of Poland. And in response to this presentation, discussion, exchange of opinions, exchange of critical opinions developed. In these critical speeches there were some major trends. But before I talk about them, let me remind the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, which is actually new to the bill, what are the most important solutions proposed in the new law. First of all, it extends the powers of the Supreme Court in such a way that it adds disciplinary proceedings in the field of law and that it reorganizes the internal structure of the Supreme Court, adding the Disciplinar Chamber and the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Board. This Chamber will deal with disciplinary matters of judges, notaries, prosecutors, lawyers, legal advisers, as well as labour and social security matters concerning Supreme Court judges, as well as matters relating to the transfer of the Supreme Court judges to rest. The Act also grants the President of the Republic of Poland the power to issue by regulation the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court. It introduces changes in the procedure for the election and appointment of the first Supreme Court President and Supreme Court Presidents. They are based on the fact that the first President will be appointed by the President out of 5 and not, so far, 2 candidates for this position, that the terms of office of the Presidents will be 5 years old and not, so far, 3 years old, and that the Presidents of the Supreme Court will elect the assemblies of the respective chambers of the Supreme Court and the first President will only be consulted. In addition, the Act extends the catalogue of requirements that must be met by a candidate for the post of Supreme Court Judge by the fact that he must have only Polish citizenship and must be 40 years old. It also reduces the age limit to allow the Supreme Court judge to retire to 65 years of age, with the possibility for the President, twice for a period of 3 years, to perform this function. It introduces to the formations of the Supreme Court on extraordinary complaints of jurors who will be elected by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. It extends the catalogue of disciplinary penalties in such a way that it provides for a penalty for the reduction of basic remuneration and the possibility for the disciplinary court to make a final disciplinary judgment public. It introduces the possibility for the President of the Supreme Court to appoint an extraordinary disciplinary officer to conduct a specific disciplinary action concerning a Supreme Court judge. It introduces an obligation to publish resolutions in the Public Information Bulletin on the Supreme Court's website which have obtained the power of the legal principle. It shall introduce a new emergency appeal in the form of an emergency action against all final decisions of universal and military courts which may be brought within 5 years from the date of the decision's enforcement. It also provides for the appointment by the first President of the Supreme Court of the Ombudsman of the public interest as a participant in proceedings for an emergency complaint. I'm skipping out on minor new regulations. These seemed to be the most important ones, which is why I remind you of them. In the light of this law, I think that the High House will be particularly interested in the following criticisms. These comments were formulated in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. I know that the senators have had a chance to get to know them. Both opinions and earlier opinions about the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court are included in this well-known set of legal opinions on the desktops. In addition, other opinions were also put forward, and I will only talk about the critical ones. By the Ombudsman, by the Attorney General, by non-governmental organisations. So in order of what do they come down to? It could be said that the main tenor of reservations concerns the unconstitutionality of solutions or the entire law or some of its provisions. I'm picking the most important critical remarks from this trend, I think. The first critical remark is that excessive powers are given to the President, which go beyond his constitutional prerogatives. For this reason, it is necessary that those powers which go beyond prerogatives require countersignation, i.e. the signature of the Prime Minister or the competent minister, and thus the same acts concerning judges will depend on the executive authority. These powers will therefore be opposed to the principle of three divisions of authorities. They will also reduce the importance of internal decisions of the Supreme Court's internal organs when it comes to issuing internal acts relating to the operation of the Supreme Court, since it will be issued by the President. It's mostly about the rules. Same reservation. In conjunction with the allegation that this is incompatible with the Constitution It concerns the President's agreement to continue to take office by the Supreme Court judge after the age of sixty-five. On that occasion, it was argued that this would constitute a politicalisation of the act of consent to the role of judge, because it would depend on a political body, and would have the potential to adversely affect the obligation of impartiality in the judicial role of the judge. The answer to these allegations was mainly in the statements of the Minister who provided the bill on behalf of the applicant. It was replied that these new powers given by the law, going beyond the strictly defined prerogatives of the President, were defined in the teaching of constitutional law in such a way that they were derivatives and could be regarded as an extension of constitutional prerogatives, so that claim is not justified. The next plea, based on the general idea of non-compliance with the Constitution, concerns this provision, which would allow, in view of reaching the age to justify the transition to retirement, the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court to be shortened. It was claimed that, according to the Constitution, this is a rigid term of six years, and that the ordinary law cannot shorten it. The counterintelligence based on expert opinion was the claim that first you have to be a full judge, not in a resting state, but in an active state, so that any managerial functions can be performed in the judiciary. If, therefore, a person loses his ability to actively pursue the profession of judge due to the transition from right to right of rest, at the same time loses his ability to carry out managerial functions and this results in an automatic shortening of this term of office. And finally, maybe the last of these most fundamental allegations of constitutional nature. It's about introducing an emergency complaint. It expressed concern that this action would violate the principle of the stability of judgments, because it would enable those judgments which already have the character of res judicata to be touched, to be judged if that action was subsequently recognised and re-examined. This plea was answered so that there would be a preliminary review of such a complaint that not everyone who would apply for it would eventually be able to bring the case back to life. This is an institution that responds to social demands, so that grossly wrong decisions which have already been passed and validated can be revised by their injustices. In this way there will be a desirable and necessary supplement to emergency measures, which are known to the Polish legislation with regard to final judgments. As far as NGOs are concerned, but first of all about the ombudsman, the National Judicial Council, their criticisms were reduced, among others. to this In addition to the issues that I mentioned earlier; it was the compatibility of these criticisms that the time range of the emergency complaint was too wide and that such a wide range would result in an excessive rise in cases of this type and could not be resolved in due time, it would also result in a huge increase in expenditure and staff handling of such cases. And that should be critical. The rigor of exclusive Polish citizenship, which will be required of the judge, was also criticized. However, it was argued in response that for some services such rigor has long been present and that it is not a new solution in the Polish law system. It was also criticized as an overly strict provision, which concerns the relationship of affinity and kinship of Supreme Court judges, tightening the current rigor, which will cause difficult situations of life in the event of such affinity or kinship between Supreme Court judges. Retroactivity was also criticized, i.e. the possibility of touching final decisions, disciplinary decisions. This was also considered to be the instability of the judicial system. As far as the emergency complaint is concerned, one more critical remark from the authorities I am talking about was that it would be better not to risk an emergency complaint, but to improve the conditions for the implementation of the deletion and to obtain this route. A bit known and wiped The results are similar to those that wish to be obtained in the emergency complaint procedure. Those were the main critical trends I had chosen. I'm not going to talk about all the positive trends and all the polemics that happened. I am sure that the representative of the applicant, the President, will speak, who will present all the assumptions and arguments in favour of this law. I will therefore conclude my report, adding that, ultimately, after a long meeting of the committee The committee voted by a majority to adopt the law without amendments, and this is what it recommends to the High Senate to react to this law. In addition, by Senator Rulewski and Senator Pociej, a minority motion has been filed against the bill. And if this proposal is not supported, the amendments are to be tabled. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Marshal Seweryński has made my mission extremely difficult because he's got a very good point. All the charges, and he's quite well-founded them. Thank you, Marshal Sewerinski, for presenting both positive and negative aspects as well. Now, Professor, I'm going to focus on the negative ones by developing them a little bit. Speaking of the issue of an emergency complaint, I would like to remind you that the far-reaching doubts about the functioning of this complaint have been presented by two bodies, which will be very exposed and interested in the fate of this law. The fact that you presented these reservations to the Ombudsman did not surprise anyone. At the moment, as he has said, he has served around 10,000 such requests and his assessment was that in this law there is no guarantee of any means to extend the Ombudsman's legal service, and a cursory estimate indicates that the number of cases addressed to the Ombudsman will increase nearly sixfold. And here, surprisingly, the voice of Mr. Attorney General, Minister of Justice, who not only through his representatives, Mr. Warchoł, but also in a letter addressed to the Marshal of the Senate on 11 December, was very much in line with these allegations in relation to the emergency complaint. Maybe not so much stating that this solution is wrong, but stating that there is absolutely no way to handle these additional complaints at the moment. The increase in these complaints has been assessed by the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, as well as by your Ombudsman. It was also raised during this discussion that there was some concern that the President's firm, which has proposed this solution, in no way wants to participate in this work, does not, in other words, recognise this power. And it was argued that Mr President's firm simply knows exactly how much burden this new solution could entail. In response, the President's representatives stated that they could not take on such a solution concerning this complaint, because of the fact that the new arrangements that the President is assigning to the Supreme Court in this act, well, they could put the President in a position where he would be a party to a body that he has too much competence for. As far as this emergency complaint is concerned, it is indeed In a very broad discussion, most of the speakers, also representatives of the Senate Legislative Office, raised what the Seweryński Marshals had just said, that this complaint against final judgments violates one of the basic principles, i.e. the principle of the seriousness of the thing judged. There's a violation of a fundamental principle that doesn't allow us to go back to cases that have already been finalized. What is more, this shifting back in time is so far away that not only will it generate a huge number of new cases, but it can also disrupt order, also economic, in terms of solutions that after 20 years and sometimes even more... If we can go back to valid solutions 20 years ago, it will also apply to things that have been done before. This could lead to a destabilization of the entire legal system. To the extent that you were talking about, Marshal Seweryński, for which I thank you, as regards the new chamber, the superizby that appears in the project... A very critical statement was made about the appearance of jurors in the Supreme Court, that is, in the court of law. The representatives of the Supreme Court, as well as the National Courts, stressed that they were in favour of extending the presence of a civil factor in the courts. They emphasized that reducing the number of jurors in the largest... This number was reduced mostly during the previous rule of law and justice. Then it was like the opposite trend, different from what we're talking about here. At that time, the number of jurors was reduced in primary and regional courts. There's a reverse trend in the world. The unique juror's life experience, very often different from the judge's experience, is valuable. Because that's where we talk about facts, that's where we talk about an assessment of events. But in the Supreme Court, which is, as I said before, a court of law, a very large legal knowledge is needed and a social factor is much less useful there, if not problematic. If, as Marshal Seweryński said, we place the highest educational barriers for the judges of the Supreme Court if we believe that the Supreme Court judges must be the most experienced, most educated judges, because they must judge their colleagues and judgments and their legal reasoning... This is not an assessment of an event where each of us... If, for example, Senator Hare became a juror in the district court, and if there was a plane crash, he'd know ten times more than any judge. I remember my lawyer's father telling me about a case in which the principal of some cereal stores was accused of getting the temperature in those warehouses wrong. This principal was the man who was brought in the briefcase, because of course it's communist times. And my father told me that one of the jurors who tried this case at this lowest level, and it was a simple farmer, explained the matter to the wise court. He said, "Please judge." 'Cause the court couldn't have come up with any way to examine the grain that's in storage in the silo. It's very simple: you take it in the hand, you squeeze it in the hand and you let it go. If everything goes away, it's good. I understand Senator Mammoth will agree with my reasoning. [[Season's already sticky.]] And if the grain is moist, it stays in your hand. However, this way of reasoning in the Supreme Court cannot, of course, take place, because there we are talking about very complicated legal principles, about excluding certain standards and there we must simply be a professional. This appearance of a juror is still very disturbing and problematic for two reasons. Well, the creation of this new chamber and the transfer of election problems to this chamber... Creating it can carry from the beginning, and in the opinion of those who spoke yesterday, carries the danger that this new chamber, enriched - I don't think so. By these jurors, it will be a superizma in which people will appear, in which people from purely political hands can appear. The way these jurors will be chosen has been very strongly questioned in this discussion. In fact, it is difficult to find independence from the current political situation in this way. I'd also like to raise an extra... No, he's been picked up. Excuse me, I mean this problem that you were also talking about, Marshal Sewerinski, the problem of this relationship. The Ombudsman spoke very strongly on this subject, who noted that this solution had just been erased from the previous system, the purely communist system. This solution, introduced at the moment, will cause - No, it can cause Moral dilemmas, ethical dilemmas, life dilemmas. Those who may be accidentally related will have to give up something. They will be faced with the following dilemma: or I give up this affinity... So, you want me to get a divorce? Well, I can also give up my whole life, my whole career. That's the result. the introduction of this completely new solution. A very serious charge, already purely constitutional, also applies to the retirement age. Well, today we are dealing with such a solution that, at the age of 70, the Supreme Court judge himself can decide whether or not he wants to continue working in the profession. Moreover, we also have the opportunity to check whether he is still suitable for this because research is being done. After these changes, there's no more... And there's no reason why they're being introduced. What's the difference between age 65 and 70? Why does that change? There was, of course, a narrative that needed to be adapted to the retirement age. Of course, the question arose as to whether Poles' retirement age was not reduced at all due to this change. Because it's an interesting connection. This solution, which is being introduced, will work in such a way that we will lower this threshold to 65 years, but completely reverse the way in which this age is assessed, because it is not a medical committee, not a medical certificate will decide. After the presentation of the medical certificate, it will be up to the President to decide whether or not the judge will be able to continue. And here, on the basis of the Constitution, there was a very serious reservation concerning the article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, where it is written that the judges are indispensable, and Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3, where it is said that they only go through at rest when the disease prevents them from working. Indeterminate... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but your time limit for the report has already been exceeded. I'm asking for a conclusion.]] Can I just close one sentence? [[Here you go, even five, but consider that the time has passed.]] I see. Yes, of course. Mr. Marshal, thank you. Thank you so much for your understanding. In general, most of the people who took the floor considered that, both because of internal standards and because of the same external standards that we talked about in relation to the National Council of Courts, this is, first, a law which is unconstitutional, second, contrary to the standards which Poland has undertaken to maintain on the international stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to your rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Please specify the person to whom the question is addressed. Senator... who's first? [[Senator Rotnicka.]] Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome. And then you're Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator, actually for both, because my question fits... It is about this one amendment, which concerns an emergency complaint covering a period of exactly the date of entry into force of the new Constitution. Does this element of the new constitution have any justification, or did the legislator simply believe that the 20-year period would be good here? It's like I can't find a reason why it's supposed to be like this. And I'm asking for an explanation because maybe I'm missing something without knowing the rules of legislation. [[Mrs. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u158	Thank you. Mr. Marshal... [[Are they gonna be any more?]] Yeah, three questions, three answers. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u159	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask if the calling... What was motivated by the establishment of a Disciplinary Chamber? Was there any evidence at the committee meeting that today's disciplinary system, which has already been mentioned here, has some serious shortcomings? And did you talk about the fact that, according to the design of this project, the Disciplinary Board is to have a special appointment, and in fact it has to be a completely separate, independent chamber with its own law firm, with its own administrative officials? What shows that the Supreme Court or the Disciplinary Court in the Supreme Court is really forming for us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u161	Mr. Senator, I also have a question about an emergency complaint. Was there a discussion at committee meetings on this subject in the context of the number of cases that could be charged to the courts if this route of emergency complaint was used in at least 1% Or 3%? Doesn't that interfere with the normal course of court work and not extend the process of pending cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman... Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u163	I will start with the last question, because this thread was raised in the report and in my report, and Senator Pociej. Yes, it was in some critical statements, including the Attorney General's, that the time range that Senator Rotnicka also asked about, would result in a very large number of complaints, and that, of course, would result in a huge overload on the authorities that dealt with these cases, as well as on the preparation of these complaints. After all, such a complaint cannot be dealt with simply because there is an applicant. All these cases will be dealt with and must be checked. After all, there are very serious selection mechanisms included here. It is claimed that such a complaint may be covered only by decisions which infringe the principles or freedoms, human rights and the citizen's constitutionally defined constitutionally, i.e. the constitutional rights of man and citizen, or which grossly infringe the law by misinterpretation or misuse, or where there is an obvious contradiction of the substantive findings of the court with the content of the evidence collected. Thus, there are very serious and, I believe, clear restrictions on these types of complaints. However, the authorities that have expressed their views believe that this is still a very wide range and that, as far as this time range is concerned, this will result in an uproar, an accumulation of a very large number of cases, which in turn will cause overloads and maybe even failure of those authorities that will rule on the case. With regard to the reasons for the establishment of the Disciplinary Chamber, Senator, this thread was not discussed at the committee meeting. We are more or less aware of the currents of public, political life, and we know very much what all this is all about, but probably each of us perceives these motives slightly differently. I'm not going to refer to how I see them. In any case, these motives were not asked and not discussed in the discussion. [[That's all the questions, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes. Thank you. [[It's Senator Comfort, because there was a senator's question to the senator...]] [[I would also like to ask your marshal... I asked why since the introduction of the current constitution is this line, so to speak, deadline.]] I will say that this particular issue has not been raised, but in the context of this great time span it could be said that indirectly this matter has been raised. But the question of a particular date, which the senator is asking about, no one has touched on and no one has spoken on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u164	Mrs. Senator, I confirm that we haven't actually gotten an answer to the question of why 20 years... The senator's connection to the constitution. I could personally relate to the fact that that was when the AWS government came into existence. It's very possible that it's certain... that it will allow certain things from that era to resume. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u165	Thank you. [[And Senator Augustine.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u166	Question for Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, you mentioned the question of the jurors' responsibilities, who will deal with emergency complaints in this new chamber. You said clearly that this raises doubts because of the need for a high level of competence. Please tell us what powers the Act provides for in the case of these jurors. Was there any reference to whether they were sufficient or not during the discussion? I understand that this is the justification of the minority, but the point is to make it concrete.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u167	Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u168	I also have a question for Senator Pociej. I'm talking about a decision that makes a judge's work dependent after sixty-five years of age on the president's recognition without any arguments. One counter-argument against such a solution was that a judge at the age of 65 is often less vulnerable to various kinds of pressures and very experienced, so very efficient in doing his job. Please tell us whether such arguments were put forward at the committee meeting. What were the counter-arguments that decided to maintain the principle that a judge at the age of 65 would be able to continue his career according to the President's recognition?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u169	It was... Please, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u170	Oh, now's a good time. I have heard both reports and I will have a lot of questions, because in my 12-year career, politics and parliamentarians have not yet seen such a situation that the bill, which has such charges of anti-constitutionality, is being introduced into the room. I've never been able to do anything like this in eight years of running the PO. Tell me, Mr. Senator, I'm addressing the senator of the minority rapporteur. Do you...? You were a senator on the last crew. Have there ever been unconstitutional projects with such a high degree of lack of constitutionality during our governments? That's gonna be the first question, and then I'm gonna ask the next one.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u171	But the question isn't related to this particular bill. That's the question I'm taking away. Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Senator, to answer the first two questions. There you go... [[But, Mr. Marshal, because I'm a lawyer, if the Marshal had told me on what grounds...]] Well, it doesn't concern... [[On what grounds? No, the basics...]] Which article is this question about? [[You will present the basis...]] Which article? Which one? [[My question is the rule base.]] But answer me, Senator. [[That's what I want to answer.]] Then answer the question. [[Thank you very much.]] Answer the first two questions, that's all. [[And for the third time, why don't you give me...]] That's because I interpret the rules. [[No, but give me the basis. Please give me the grounds for repeal...]] But, Mr. Senator, there's this... [[But give me the basis of the Rules of Procedure.]] I'll give you that in a minute. Answer the first two questions, and I'll give it to you right away. [[This is the marshal's authority.]] [[Of course...]] [[Also, Mr. Marshal, give me the basis for your repeal of my question.]] [[Read the rules, man.]] Does Senator Fedorovich not hear well, or does he not want to hear? [[I'm very sorry, but please don't talk to me in that tone. I ask the question, not being a lawyer. I'm receiving information from you, Marshal Sewerinski, indicating...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't say... [[...many constitutional delicacies.]] I didn't give you the floor. Please... [[I'm a senator and I want to know what to vote for.]] I didn't give you the floor. And please don't speak the moment I speak to you. I don't give that voice. [[Can I do it now?]] You can, because I asked you to answer a few moments earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u172	And the marshal will tell me when I can't. And that, of course. Thank you. Jury, question about jury. No, it concerns their requirement: has exclusive Polish citizenship, enjoys full civil and public rights, is impeccable in character, has completed 40 years of age, on the date of selection has not reached 60 years of age, is able to perform his duties due to the state of health, has at least secondary or professional education. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u173	But why are you speaking? [[I'd like to ask.]] But, Senator, if you want to speak, you raise your hand. You didn't raise your hand. Hello, Senator Fedorovich in what... [[I'm signing up. I'll wait till it's my turn, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, you're welcome to speak up. [[I'm not reporting to you. I'm reporting to the secretariat.]] You can come to me. So, please write you down, yes. And did you finish your answer? [[I don't know. Mr. Marshal is talking to the senator right now.]] Because the senator's speaking... [[I understand, but I'm waiting for you to tell me to talk.]] I already told you to talk. [[But then you interrupted me.]] Well, you're... If you'd like to address the Senator on the first bench... [[But, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] ...from the Civic Platform called Mieczysław Augustyn. [[I understand, Mr. Marshal, but because... Mr. Marshal, I'm interrupting talking just because you're talking to another senator. Don't blame me for waiting for you to finish.]] But it wasn't me who started it. It was Senator Augustine. [[But I don't know... so tell me you're done. I'm sorry, but I'm not doing anything wrong here.]] I already told you to answer. [[Yes, sir.]] And answer the question. Don't worry. Don't gestify too much. Please answer your questions calmly... [[Mr. Marshal, for three days... we sit for two days and every time there is another Marshal, there are different rules of response.]] But please don't... Don't judge the marshals' work, because it's not yours... [[But I don't judge. I say it's hard to figure out...]] This isn't your... [[Mr. Marshal, all I'm saying is it's hard to figure out...]] You have... Mr. Senator! [[...because sometimes you can answer and sometimes you can't.]] I'm taking your voice away. I'm taking your vote, and I'm asking you to answer the question. [[And how can he answer that question?]] [[But did you take my voice or can I speak?]] I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u174	Thank you very much. That's what I've been waiting for you to... [[Let me remind you that you didn't...]] Thank you for... [[But why didn't you hear what I said earlier? Well, there you go.]] Next, the second question was 65 years old, right? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Jury? No, I told you about the jury. [[The jurors' responsibilities.]] The powers of the jury are de facto, you can say, the same as those of the judges, in that respect, when they rule. Here, however, is a solution which, to some extent, seems to refer to the law on common courts, where the duties of the jury are defined. So... But in this respect, Mr. Senator, it could be... [[Secondary education, really?]] Yes... No, no. Mr. Senator, I was talking about something else. This is exactly the same solution as that which concerns common courts. So there's no difference here. The difference is that completely different matter, much more complicated... I spoke of this earlier, referring to this example of life experience, which is possible in the district court... and in the Supreme Court it is not useful. There is, however, no other solution here that would somehow be grossly different from what has been so far. That's one thing. Secondly, I'm coming back because this discussion kind of knocked me out... [[From the panth.]] She's out of her panth, as it's said. 65 years old, right? [[What are the arguments for limiting...]] Well, I don't remember and... I mean, in addition to the argument that was 65 years old, which is this particular barrier to retirement age, there was no such thing. Since there are different barriers to the retirement age of women and men I think it is. [[The voice from the room: Yeah, sure.]] Women and men... And if it is, there is indeed a very serious question whether, due to the difference between the retirement age of a man and a woman, it is not discrimination based on age. [[That's not discrimination. I'm 70 years old.]] No, but I'm talking about the difference. The difference. [[I think I'll have another one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u175	Okay, Mr. Senator, I'll ask you a question. On the basis of what provision do you claim that there is a different age for men and women in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u176	I said I don't remember. Mr. Marshal wouldn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u177	I listened very carefully. Okay... [[No, I said...]] I listened very carefully to you. [[I said I don't remember, and if it really is...]] Well, it's not, Mr. Senator. It's not... [[But I said, "I don't remember."]] You're the rapporteur, but the bill... I'm telling you there's no difference. [[I understand that this is a serious punishment for my question about the rules.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Senator, I want to answer your question. So, yes, my decision to waive the question is based on the article. 42 and 44. Art. 42 deals with the direction of the deliberations: The Senate is headed by the Marshal of the Senate by two Marshals appointed by the Marshal, the Senate's secretaries. The President of the sitting of the Senate Marshal shall interpret the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I make this interpretation as a leading person. And in the article. 44 clearly states that, prior to the discussion, senators may submit a question to the rapporteur for a period of not more than one minute in connection with the bill in question. You cannot ask about cases that go beyond the scope of this law, and if the question goes far beyond the scope of this law, then I will repeal this question. That's my right. And I want you to read these articles of the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't used, but since you're using obstruction, I'm just going to try very carefully and follow the rules carefully. Please, who's asking the questions? Have you answered all your questions, Senator? Yes? Good. Senator Czarnobaj, then Senator Florek, then Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First, I'm going to ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Pociej. I'm afraid to ask you not to give me that question, because in the morning, Mr. Marshal was in a good mood... [[I'm still in good shape, I wouldn't say my...]] ...and tonight he's in the mood to repeal. It was yesterday, but I hope... [[I'm in a very good mood.]] Mr. Marshal, if you'd like to repeal the Marshal, I'll be quoting from the legal opinion on this bill, I'll be reading individual passages. Mr. Senator, it's been a long time, and the legislators are putting... I don't know if the senator has that opinion... You do, don't you? I mean, first and fourth points, I'm interested in the issue of non-compliance or the question of constitutional compatibility. In the first point, legislators write about granting the President competence to influence judicial authority, and in the fourth point, that he raises constitutional doubts about the introduction of an emergency complaint in so far as it is regulated by Article. 115 of the Act. My question, Mr. Senator, is this: did you discuss at the committee's meeting those objections raised by the legislators? That's the first question. And the second, in connection with this: what is your opinion, Senator, regarding these 4 comments? Questions for you, Professor Sewerinski. Professor, the description of the observations on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution states that 7 opinions have been drawn up, here are the names of their authors. Did you, as a committee, read these opinions, discuss them? That's the first question. The second question is, could you tell the professor what those opinions were? They are not included here, in this document prepared by the Legislative Office, they are on the website, but in two sentences could the professor say what the opinions were, did they contain these elements concerning non-compliance or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, you've been through a lot of time. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, unfortunately...]] Yes? [[To answer... there's no...]] [[There it is, there it is.]] Okay, but that's for you gentlemen to explain... [[The professor can answer first, if you don't mind.]] That's okay, thank you for the suggestion. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u180	I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if I may speak because the senator has asked a question, and he's busy right now... [[But maybe he's got some divisive attention, so you're welcome.]] [[Yes, I do.]] [[Yes.]] If I understand the senator's question correctly, it's about those expert opinions that are mentioned. [[Seven.]] Yes. Firstly, these opinions were not annexed to the opinion of the Legislative Office, only those who drew up such opinions were mentioned. In my memory, there were both opinions in which there was an allegation of conflict with the constitution, as well as opinions in which there was no such discrepancy. For example, with regard to these other opinions, I will say that... I do not know which were more and which were less, because I have not seen them myself, I am primarily based on the opinion presented by the Senate Legislative Office and the opinions which were presented at the hearing by the Ombudsman, the National Judicial Council and other organisations participating in it. As examples of such opinions, which did not agree with the allegations of non-constitutionality, I mentioned those concerning whether the six-year term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court may end in connection with the transition to rest or not. Among the experts you're asking, there were those who said it was a stiff term and no one, no provision of the law can violate it, and there were those who said it like I did. I referred, i.e. that first you have to be an active judge, fully entitled to an active profession, so that then you can perform the functions of a steering type. If you lose the value of being an active judge, you cannot perform either judicial functions or any managerial functions. That's all I can answer about your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u181	Thank you very much. Will you, Senator, answer now? [[Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u182	Mr. Senator, these allegations you're asking about, and which have been raised, are related to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European The other official acts of the President concerning the courts, the judges will require countersignation. The problem that has been raised here is that, in this regulation in two places, there is a need for such a countersignal, i.e. that in addition to the President, the Prime Minister may have an influence on this legislative process. In this regard, of course, it has been claimed that we are facing a threat to these fundamental values, namely the democratic state, the rule of law and the three divisions of power, because the executive authority through these arrangements will be able to influence the Supreme Court. This opinion then raised fundamental reservations as regards the principles set out in Article. 2, Article 10, Art. 173 and 180 constitutions. In my speech, I spoke about the problems related to the article. 180, because there's... In the first, third and fourth paragraphs, these reservations were raised... According to the legislators, the provision of the article raises objections here. 37 §1 which grants the President the right to continue to serve as Judge of the Supreme Court by a judge who has completed sixty-five years of age. Here's the thing. The opinionaries said that, once, it violates the principle of inevitability, two, that it violates the principle that you cannot move to rest, because in the constitution it is said when you can... They also claimed that you shouldn't interrupt your cadence, and here, and that many times... Indeed, it was very, very much discussed that this provision would end this term of office, because there is no way for the President to remain in this position today. Moreover, it has also been said that the President said that she would not apply for such an extension because she believes that this is interference in her term of office. It was, Mr. Senator, the most serious reservations. I say again: these reservations were a little more, but these were the most important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u184	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It might be a question for Mr. Pociej, since you're in the podium right now. In fact, I mean, did you discuss this at the committee meeting? I'm talking about art. 30 §1 that a person who holds only Polish citizenship and enjoys civil, public rights, etc. may be appointed to serve as a Supreme Court Judge. My question is whether or not you talked about it. I don't really understand why it's so important. I don't think there's been a requirement so far. I don't think we've met with this situation. Is it that important, that important? Someone who has Polish citizenship and yet another country's citizenship will not be able to establish a service relationship in this situation. The question is, then... Maybe that's not a question. If a person who wants to run would have second citizenship, and if he had to resign... There's a whole waiver procedure that's been going on for a long time. Therefore, such persons will practically not have the opportunity to be selected. Did you discuss at the committee's meeting how many judges have dual citizenship and could not stand as Supreme Court judge in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would ask you, Mr Sewerinski, as the rapporteur of the majority, to comment on a possible proposal for an amendment concerning the role of President of the Supreme Court, which raises the greatest reservations here. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 111 §4. In the opinion of the office to which I am always respectful, there is a paragraph: "In this situation, in order to give the law the value of compliance with the Constitution, consideration should be given to the proposal for an amendment aimed at introducing a separate regulation in the transitional provisions, enabling the current first President of the Supreme Court to end his term of office in a manner consistent with the standard set out in the Constitution. To conclude, I ask as an illegal: is the release or termination of the term of office a violation of the Constitution? What can we do about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u187	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u188	Question for both senators. The explanatory memorandum of the Act on Emergency Complaints refers actually, and competently, and with regard to the conditions, primarily to the constitutional complaint. I would ask your professor and your patron to inform me if you were wondering whether it is possible to impose powers? I'm referring to a constitutional complaint here. If, when writing about the conditions of an emergency complaint, only the word 'intimidating' is added to the terms of the constitutional complaint... I understand that if there's been a violation of the law, misinterpretation, misapplication of the rules, etc., all the more so... A constitutional complaint shall apply when there is a serious infringement. The legal basis is that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u189	Question, Mr. Senator. You've been way over a minute. [[I already asked the question.]] Since you asked, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u190	Mr. Senator, as I recall, there was no such conversation, but I may remember less than a discussion. As to Senator Flork's first question, there was a very long, serious discussion. She was in her tenor very similar to the discussion about the issue of affinity, marriage. There wasn't an exact number given here, I don't recall that number dropping. If there are any such cases, they are individual cases. And in fact, in their statements, the guests were very critical of this record. One argument was that it's quite difficult to show here what the danger is of a judge being a double citizen. And to the questions addressed to the President's representative, at least I did not get a satisfactory answer. In addition, there was an argument that such a situation, e.g. in the case of politicians who have, at least according to the debaters, a much greater possible impact on the fate of Poland, there is no such requirement and it is not entirely known why this solution was adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u191	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u192	As for the suspended six-year term of office of the first Supreme Court President, Senator, I have already said that there have been reservations about the constitutionality of such a provision, there have been doubts as to whether this provision is constitutional. Even in some opinions were simply formulated such words that it is unconstitutional. And I told you what counter-arguments were raised in the discussion. I will repeat once again that you must first be a fully active judge with full powers, so that then certain managerial functions can be performed. The Office of the First President of the Supreme Court is such a supreme managerial function in the judiciary. The transition to rest is an action ex lege, by law, not the ruling decision of any authority, so if someone goes to rest, he loses this advantage, which depends on the ability to perform a managerial function. I will further develop this thread, although it was not discussed by me at the committee meeting, but in this case, I think that Mr Marshal will allow me to go beyond the strict scope of the report, because there is a legal comparative argument of such a reasoning that first one must be a full judge and then it is possible to carry out managerial duties. Well, a similar situation arose at one time under higher education law. There have been cases where the rectors, during their term of office of the rector, reached the retirement age, which the law sets at 70 years, and by virtue of that law they retired. And the question was whether they could continue their term of office. Of course not, because they stopped being active professors. It was only in the next amendment that such a provision had to be added This provision was added, which made it clear that the rector's achievement of the retirement age during his term of office did not prevent him from continuing his term of office. There must be a special recipe. If there was such a special provision here, it would be an analogy here. As far as the record of Polish citizenship is concerned, actually Senator Pociej has already told me in very detail, but I am a little bit tempted... Forgive me, Mr. Marshal, for saying more than what's in the report. The argument is as follows... In my opinion, it might be. It could be, so that's the hypothesis that there's such a risk. A conflict of loyalty in the case of a person who has more than one nationality. Because to which one of these countries will she be loyal or more loyal and to whom she will be a little less loyal? When someone performs such an important function as a judge, such a conflict of citizenship, a sense of citizenship, a sense of civic loyalty is no longer just a certain internal dilemma, because it can manifest itself through certain acts of power. So I wouldn't underestimate it so much. I'm sorry, but that wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. Now I have this argument, so maybe I shouldn't move it, because it's not a strict report on the committee's work. [[I'd like to ask because I didn't get the answer. If you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u193	Yes, you can. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I thank you for your reply, but I ask you, because in a moment there will be votes and colleagues from your group will be voting, and I read that the proposal to amend the current first president should be considered...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u195	I understand. Mr. Senator, all right, I'll say it. There was, of course, a proposal. In one of these opinions, I no longer remember in which But this is the request of a person who speaks in discussion and in other words says: it would be better to allow the President to complete his term of office, i.e. to introduce a provision such as the one I quoted from the law on higher education, which clearly allows him to complete his term of office, even though he has already reached retirement age. But there's no such rule here. That's an offer, which would be better. Such a proposal, such a suggestion in one of the statements was made. [[I'm sorry, this isn't a discussion, but I need to know. We're being watched online. It is in the constitution that the term of office of the President lasts six years. Does this mean that the current Supreme Court President will lose his job immediately after the entry into force of this law or not?]] Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u196	Mr. Senator... Excuse me. But you asked me a question without... Sign up, please. [[It's in my file.]] But, Senator, you didn't sign up for the question, and I didn't give you the floor. Please report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to ask a question. I mean... We have... Let's respect each other. [[I respect you, I'm sorry...]] No, I don't feel it. Mr. Senator... Thank you very much, because you've already answered. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u197	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej, the rapporteur for minorities, because several opinions have been drawn up on the non-constitutionality of the proposed law, but there have also been opinions of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and the National Judicial Council. What issues have these institutions raised regarding the non-compliance of the proposed law with the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u199	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Pociej, and if there's any difficulty, it's for Professor Sewerinski. My question concerns Art. 34, exactly the mouth. 1, or more specifically, oaths or vows, which the Supreme Court judge makes. In the content of this oath, which is quite extensive, is: to exercise justice in accordance with the laws and principles of fairness, of course, in addition to other content. There's no such constitution here. I'd like to ask... Of course, the constitution is a rule of law, it is not that it is omitted, but the constitution is not mentioned explicite as the basis of the oath. Has there been a change here? I can't tell, because the comparative material is about other changed laws, not about the Supreme Court, so I can't compare it. I mean, has there been a change here that ignores the constitution in the terms of the oath, and was it even discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, you were talking about... you were actually talking about judgments that already have the merit of judgment. You said it was kind of an emergency complaint that raised a lot of doubts. I would just like to ask whether the committee has pointed out that even if the cassation complaint, which is in force and can be used today, also concerns final decisions, concerns judgments executed and has exactly the same quality. Well, you were also talking about it, but I don't know if it's you or any of the senators, but I think you, Mr. Senator... I would like to know whether this was the subject of the committee's deliberations, whether the committee pointed out a completely different scope of the emergency complaint, which will be a new legal instrument, and today's cassation complaint, which is actually about law and not fact. Because we don't have any way of getting back to the evidence assessment or the facts. That's not an option. The cassation complaint is... [[But the senator has already asked the question, right now it's a commentary on the question.]] Okay. I'd like to talk about these two issues. You told us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u202	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u203	Thank you. As far as counsel is concerned, Mr Trela, the dean of the barrister's council, who is also the chairman of the association of a dozen legal professions, did not speak out during the discussions on the Supreme Court. However, his earlier statement, from the first part of our discussion, concerned the problem of trust in judges, including the Supreme Court. And in his statement, even though he warned that the Bar Council and the National Council of Legal Counsels had repeatedly been critical of certain individual decisions and pointed out the mistakes made... Moreover, the Ombudsman also did not hide the fact that many times, because it is his domain, he is very critical of many decisions. And there was no doubt about that. However, in general, Dean Trela was absolutely in the position that both one and the other laws are dangerous to the individual independence of the judge and in general to the independence of the Supreme Court. As regards the question concerning Article. 34, this was not a discussion on the subject, and it is therefore difficult for me to answer that question, Senator. I didn't find it in the comparative material either. But I hope we can hear it from the source. As for the question of an emergency complaint, it was such a discussion, Senator. Besides, it was at the very end of our debate, and it was one of the last issues that we raised. The person who caused this discussion was Senator Cichoń, who addressed the issue of the construction of the cassation complaint at all. And Mrs Romaszewska agreed and applauded this idea that the construction should be taken care of at all. And that voice was that this construction is too formal and it is, so to speak, too difficult a corset for... because we have a lawyer's compulsion, etc., etc. Well, it's a very formalized institution. And there was actually a discussion about it. Except Senator Silence, in what he said, was rather critical of this emergency complaint. He insisted that much better and it would be easier to simply change the erasation than to invent a new existence. And he supported both speeches here, and the Attorney General, and the Ombudsman, saying that it goes too far back in the first place. The basic difference is that there's a certain time range in which you can file the cassation, and here's the... [[No, there's no time limit for criminal convictions.]] Please? [[You can bring an unlimited cancellation in favor of the convicted person. A spokesperson can bring it in.]] Yes, but here we have all the decisions. And the problem was that if we had some settlements in civil law and then we had some transactions, actions, it would be a threat to the principle of the seriousness of the thing being judged. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, that was the discussion. There's nothing else I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u204	Thank you. And were there any questions for your marshal or not? [[Senator Pociej explained everything that needs to be done.]] Everything, right? Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Tight. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u205	I would ask both the rapporteurs to answer my question. According to the Act, an emergency complaint, as I have determined, cannot be applied only in one case Not because of the subject matter of the case, but because of the consequences. The recognition of non-existence or annulment of a marriage can only be taken as an emergency action if the parties have not concluded A new marriage. I have a question: is this really the only case? And second question. Were the consequences of recognition considered e.g. nullity of elections and determination in this case, whether actions or consequences of public activities e.g. The mayor and the uncle who was illegally elected, because the cassation complaint would say so, are they legal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u206	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u207	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Just a quick question. The answer will be short, too. I wasn't at the very beginning... I address Senator Pociej. There are many amendments that accuse the unconstitutionality of many points of the bill. How did the vote come out here? Because I didn't get that in the report. Was the committee in favour of adopting the law without amendments, or was it in favour of incorporating the amendments? Well, that's an important question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u209	Good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Art. 59 §1 In the recognition of emergency complaints, the cases referred to in Article. 27 §1 (1) and in other disciplinary proceedings in which the Supreme Court is competent under separate laws, the jurors of the Supreme Court shall participate. I have a question about you two talking... The answer may be Senator Comforter, but not necessarily, both gentlemen may answer. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Because complaints... I take it that's the art. 27 §1 (1) concerns the Disciplinary Chamber, i.e. disciplinary matters, precisely, but the first part of the opinion refers to an emergency complaint. Is the jury, as far as the emergency complaints are concerned... As I understand it, a lot of experience is needed here, etc. Whether such a requirement for jurors is sufficient for secondary or secondary education, it is sufficient whether it is sufficient to be a juror and decide jointly with the Supreme Court judges, e.g. to consider an emergency complaint? Did you talk about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u210	Thank you very much. Please answer me. In fact, all the questions were for Senator Pociej... [[One for me.]] One for the senator, all right. Yeah, both of them. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u211	Thank you. First question, as regards the emergency complaint concerning the elections. I don't recall there being a discussion about it. This was not discussed at the committee meeting. The vote was reckless, two people, two members of the Human Rights Committee on the Platform were against this resolution, which is why I am here as a representative of the minority proposal. We have proposed rejection, and in case we lose, we have also tabled amendments. One of these amendments was followed by the speech of the Minister of Justice. This was to extend the vacathio legis, precisely as regards the possibility of bringing an emergency complaint, probably for a year. The point was that the Ministry and, of course, the Ombudsman, because the voice in this case was identical, could be prepared financially. Because, in the course of the discussion, we received no response to financing the handling of these emergency complaints, and the representative of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, very strongly argued that in order to handle this expected number of complaints, it would be necessary to build or buy a separate building and hire dozens of people, because such multiple complaints were anticipated. As regards the question concerning Article. 59 §1... Can I ask you to repeat this last question? [[Of course, but which senator? Who...]] Art. 59... Senator Florek, I think. [[The last question you asked was Senator Florek.]] Exactly. [[Yes.]] [[The last one was asked by Fedorovich...]] [[No, the last question was yours.]] [[I asked you about this requirement of middle education, if that's enough to rule on these cases...]] [[The jury's qualifications.]] Thank you very much. There was a discussion about it and she even took quite a long time. This is what I said in my report: it was emphasized, and in particular it was emphasized by the representative of the Supreme Court, that the participation of jurors is completely different... At this basic stage, I'm talking about common courts, it's absolutely added value, but where you have to judge the law, first of all, the juror will absolutely not be useful, and secondly, even if you put a very high educational threshold here, also... It would have to be, I don't know, a law professor or a doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u213	I will only say briefly, Mr. Marshal, that the matter that you are asking Senator Wczyła, according to what I have in mind, was not discussed in the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u214	Thank you very much. [[And my question...]] Mr. Senator... [[Did it go without corrections or with amendments?]] [[Oh, yeah. I'm sorry, I didn't...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u215	Of course, it's been voted out... The majority of the committee, the majority of the law and justice voted for this proposal to pass without amendments, yes. I can't tell if it was 6:2... [[Yeah, 6:2.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...but that was the end result.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u216	Okay, but most of the justice committee, not most of the law and justice committee, because that would mean that some of the law and justice senators voted differently. [[You're right, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. [[...but I saw a hesitation on some faces and that's why I said it.]] Yeah, but there's a difference. [[Mr. Marshal, one person has abstained...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, can you... I can give a voice out of order, it's in the rules. [[Am I supposed to...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] I don't see any more people asking questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? No. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. Thank you very much. This bill was introduced by the President. The President's position was presented in the course of parliamentary work: Minister Anna Surówka, Undersecretary of State in the President's Chancellery; Advisor to the President in the Chancellery, Mrs Zofia Romaszewska; Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha. Do the President's representatives wish to speak? In this case, of course, about this bill. [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: We assume that on this bill.]] Yeah, but I did. You're welcome, Minister. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u217	Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We regret very much, Mrs. Marshal, that...]] I was just gonna say, Mr. Senator... Don't be so sorry, because... [[Mrs. Marshal, I didn't finish. We're very sorry there won't be any question-raisers.]] Good. Minister, you have your vote. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u218	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, I would like to comment on some of the comments raised during the discussion. The first issue concerns the expiry of the term of office of the President of the European Union. First President of the Supreme Court. It's not exactly like the rules are losing the term of office of the first president. The Act of 8 December this year. indicates only what requirements must be met in order to take up the position of the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court accordingly. The requirements for the President are set out in Article. Article 12 (1) and Article 12 (1). 15 §2. One of these requirements is to be an active judge. A similar regulation is currently in force in the Supreme Court Act, in Article. 30 §5, in which there is a clear indication that, if a judge has already reached the age of retirement, even if he has obtained permission to continue his duties, he is not in a position to act as President of the Supreme Court. It can therefore be said that those provisions of the Act of 8 December in so far as they allow for the continuation of their duties after obtaining permission to continue to serve as a judge in an active state In this respect, they are more favourable than those resulting from the current law. As regards the age of retirement, this is largely a reference to the changes in the law on the system of common courts introduced in July this year, which entered into force on 1 October. And now what's different about the resolution of the Law of 8 December 2017 from the law on the system of universal courts is, above all, the regulation concerning women. The Supreme Court Act establishes a uniform age of retirement for women judges and men judges Sixty-five years of age. On the other hand, the law on the system of common courts provides for a separate regulation for women, separate for men. According to the law on the system of common courts, a female judge retires at the age of 60, a male at the age of sixty-five. But the important thing is also that art. 69 §1b indicates that it is possible for the Minister of Justice to authorise the continuation of his duties, to continue to rule, and that the conditions set out here, which the Minister should take into account in the event of a possible extension, are quite vague. Of course, the judge must identify himself with a medical certificate confirming that he can continue to serve as a judge. Second point: the Minister of Justice shall act in accordance with Article. 69 §1b, the rational use of judicial staff and the needs arising from the task of individual courts. So again, these are very judgmental conditions, which do not really allow the long-term answer to be clear as to whether it will really be necessary at a given time to extend the possibility for the judge to rule. The decision will only belong to the Minister of Justice. Another issue that has also been raised here is the question of jurors' education. The requirements laid down in the Act of 8 December refer to those arising from the Law on the system of common courts, specifically Chapter 7. Art. 158 §1 as one of the conditions indicates having at least secondary or secondary education. However, it should also be borne in mind that the requirements set out in the Supreme Court Act are certain minimum requirements. So here again, the Senate, making the choice of jury, will judge each candidate individually. If he/she considers that a candidate, even if he/she has a secondary education, has the right qualities to serve as a juror in the Supreme Court, he/she may be elected. On the other hand, if the High Chamber considers that higher requirements need to be met, it can of course choose the person who meets the higher requirements from among the candidates submitted. What is also worth noting, considering the institution of jurors in the Supreme Court, is that normally in common courts jurors rule in such chambers with professional judges that they are able to pass a vote by issuing a settlement. This will not be the case in the case of the Supreme Court, because always in the formation of the judges of the profession have an advantage over the jury. What are jurors for? The jury is to be a certain social voice, a social sense of justice, which is to be reflected in the decision-making process and consideration of what decision is to be made. Another issue raised here concerns the requirement to have only Polish citizenship as a condition for being a Supreme Court judge. Currently, several laws are in force in the legal system, which also introduce this requirement of having only Polish citizenship, e.g. Article 2 75 §1 of the law on the prosecutor's office indicates that the prosecutor may be a person who has only Polish citizenship. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 of Art. The 16th Act on the Service of Military Counterintelligence and the Military Intelligence Service indicates that the head of one or the other service may be a person legitimizing only Polish citizenship. Act on the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency in Article. 44 The requirement to have only Polish citizenship applies to officers. In addition, other provisions provide for a similar requirement for their heads. The Act on the Central Anti-corruption Office also requires only Polish citizenship by officers, as well as by the head of the CBA. With regard to officers, this requirement shall be governed by Article. 48, in the case of the Head of the CBA, that is the requirement under Article. Paragraph 7 1 of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau Act. Therefore, this is not a new requirement for persons who perform different public functions. Why is this requirement introduced? As in the case of those previously appointed by me in various public functions, the requirement to have only one citizenship, Polish citizenship, in the case of Supreme Court judges, serves to highlight those links which connect the judge with the Polish State. The judge shall deliver judgments and all decisions on behalf of the Republic of Poland. In the case of a person who holds such an important office and issues judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland, it is important to link this legal hub, which is to have only Polish citizenship. Therefore, the President in his project, which was adopted by the Sejm on 8 December, proposed that the Supreme Court judges should have only Polish citizenship. There were also raised arguments concerning this long period during which an emergency complaint could be brought. It is necessary to take into account the reasons for making use of this measure, which is an emergency complaint. One requirement, apart from violating the rule of law or social justice, is the violation of constitutional freedoms and rights. Therefore, this transitional provision reached the point at which the current constitution entered into force, because that is when this catalogue of freedoms and human rights and the citizen, the violation of which may be one of the conditions justifying the use of this measure, which is an emergency complaint, came into force. It was also pointed out that, despite all this, the period foreseen for an emergency complaint, a period of five years, was quite long. However, in the case of measures currently in place in the legal system, such as deletion whether the action for reopening the procedure can be said to be even longer. In the case of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, as well as in the case of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, there are no time limits for bringing an action. On the other hand, the Civil Procedure Code with regard to the application for reopening provides that, within a period of 10 years after the judgment has become final, this exceptional remedy may be used. Therefore, this is not an excessively long time. This is the same period as for other exceptional measures Such a measure is also an emergency complaint, which is already provided for in the current legislation. There was also a question of countersignation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the President's official acts, which will concern judges of the Supreme Court, but no one argued that, with regard to the administrative courts, the powers of the President of the President concerning the creation of these courts, concerning the determination of the number of judges, also concerning the rules of procedure of the Voivodeship administrative courts, were similar. Any President's regulation as an implementing act shall be countersigned by the President of the Council of Ministers. Since the beginning of these rules giving the President the power to determine this organisation, to determine the rules of the provincial administrative courts, these powers have always been exercised with the countersignal of the President of the Council of Ministers, and I am surprised at the outrage that prevails in connection with the President's competence to establish the rules of the Supreme Court, and to believe that this is such an absolute novelty that has never occurred in the system, and that the President of the Council of Ministers will have a very strong influence on this. Such competence was already in force in the legal system under the amended provisions of the Law on the Supreme Court of 1985. These were provisions modified after the President's office was established. At that time, the President also defined by regulation the organisation of the Supreme Court, its rules of procedure. These provisions were, of course, modified after the entry into force of the Supreme Court Act, which is also currently in force. As regards matters relating to the President's consent to continue to take office by a Supreme Court judge after reaching the age to justify the transition to retirement, it is appropriate to refer here to the voices raised in the doctrine of constitutional law indicating that the countersignations are not only exempted from the requirements of those official acts which expressis verbis are mentioned in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Polish Constitution, but also those which are a continuation or further continuation of the activities mentioned in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of This was pointed out in the doctrine of constitutional law, among others. Professor Sarnecki, Professor Grenade, also Professor Garlicki or Dr. Anna Frankiewicz-Bodynek. And such a typical competence of the President, which was not mentioned in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 3, and also does not require countersignation, is e.g. the appointment of a senior marshal, whether in the Senate or in the Seym, which, according to the views expressed in the doctrine, is a consequence of the President's competence to convene the first meeting of both Chambers. And the said power to allow the person appointed as Supreme Court judge to continue to serve is, as it were, a continuation of the President's powers to appoint judges. In this case, the appointment of all judges. What is also important in discussing the powers of the Supreme Court is a basic indication in the Constitution that the system and jurisdiction of all courts, without any exceptions, are governed by laws. The Supreme Court isn't some other court outlawed by these requirements. In terms of the possibility of creating its organisation and the rule of law, it is the same court as common courts, military courts or administrative courts. That is quite enough of the general comments that you raised here during the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representatives on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. President reported a veto to the Supreme Court Act in July this year. Tell us the difference between this bill that we're considering today and the one that the President has declared a veto on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u221	Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u222	Tell me: What makes you think that an emergency complaint is needed at all? In a lot of legal circles... In fact, in all the opinions that I was able to read, when I tried to prepare for the discussion, it was considered that an emergency complaint was unnecessary, because the remedies so far are, so to speak, a full catalogue, a closed catalogue, and that an emergency complaint is actually a supercast, is in fact a competitive remedy against other envisaged procedural measures. That's the first question. And the other one... Or maybe I'll stop because I'll pass the minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u223	Mr. Piotr Wach. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u224	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I repeat the question I raised to the rapporteurs, which concerns Article. 34, the contents of the oath of the Supreme Court Judge. Is an oath on a constitution that doesn't exist in the present content, a change in what was or wasn't? At the moment it is referred to legislation, the constitution is not explicitly mentioned. Has there been a change in this regard or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u225	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. With regard to the first question concerning the vetoed law, the difference applies primarily to the organisation of the Supreme Court itself, because the vetoed law provides essentially for 3 chambers in the Supreme Court: the Chamber of Public Law, the Chamber of Private Law and the Disciplinary Chamber. And that's the basic difference. Another issue which differs from the law currently being vetoed here is, for example, the termination of the service relationship of the Supreme Court judges. This law, which was passed by Parliament in July, contained provisions to immediately exonerate all Supreme Court judges. The bill under review today does not introduce this kind of regulation because it is not possible to put out the term of office of all the judges... not even the term of office, because the judges are irresistible. But it is not possible to transfer all the judges of the Supreme Court to rest mainly because it would result in total paralysis of the work of the Supreme Court. The differences also concern the President's competence with regard to the Supreme Court, in particular with regard to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court, as well as other powers relating to the appointment of the first President or Presidents of the Supreme Court. I'll bring it up here. You raised this state during your work in the High House The fact that the rules were not entirely consistent was because one provision indicated that the President would have five candidates for the first President, while the General Assembly regulations indicated that only three candidates would be elected for the first President of the Supreme Court. In addition, these completely new regulations, which were not in the July Act at all, concern mainly: jurors, which was not provided for in the Supreme Court at all; the introduction of an emergency complaint institution as an extraordinary measure by which final judgments of the courts can be challenged. Of course, there are also issues concerning, for example, the transfer of judges to a resting state or in general the requirements that must be met in order to be a judge of the Supreme Court, because here there has been a modification in relation to those solutions which were adopted in the July Act. So that those were the most important changes. Of course, the various modifications also concerned the possibility of setting up an extraordinary disciplinary officer for judges, because the President, in his original submission, predicted that the Ombudsman would be appointed only from among the judges and did not provide for the possibility of a prosecutor to be appointed as an extraordinary spokesman. In the course of parliamentary work, provisions were added to allow the prosecutor to be appointed as an extraordinary spokesman, but only in the case of the most serious crimes. Minister Mucha explained this perfectly at the committee meeting, and hopes that there will be no need for this institution to be used at all. The Minister pointed out that he believed, however, that the state of the judge had a really high level of culture and therefore there would be no need to use... that judges would not commit these most serious crimes and that there would be no need to appoint a disciplinary officer from a group of prosecutors. As for the next question about the necessity or the need for such a centre as the emergency complaint... Senator Staroń, who is present here, also Mr Wojciechowski, has repeatedly raised the need to restore or introduce the measure following the former emergency review. The introduction of this extraordinary measure was also included in the Law and Justice Programme and in the President's electoral programme. Why? In one of her interpellations, the senator presented several cases where people were wronged by the justice system. They have used all, absolutely all the possibilities for bringing about the judicial decisions that have been given in their cases, but still remain in the legal system of judgments which are not in accordance with the Constitution, which violate their freedoms and rights. Therefore, an extraordinary measure is to be such a final last resort. If someone no longer has any other option to take advantage of the measures provided for by law, he may take advantage of this absolutely extraordinary measure, which is an emergency complaint. In addition, the emergency complaint complements a certain gap in the Polish system of protection measures, which is caused by a constitutional complaint, and more specifically by the formation of a constitutional complaint. Constitutional complaint, in accordance with Article. 79 of the Polish Constitution, is entitled in the event of a violation of constitutional freedoms on the way after obtaining a final decision or a final administrative decision. But the subject of the appeal is not a violation of the freedom or the right to decide the court or the public administration, but a normative act which was the basis for court or administrative proceedings. What does the applicant obtain when the Court has decided on a constitutional action in favour of the applicant? He receives a judgment stating that the normative act is incompatible with the Constitution. But really the recognition of the unconstitutionality of this normative act is only the beginning of the path to obtaining a favourable decision for it. All procedural rules, both administrative, civil and criminal procedures, provide in such a case for the possibility to apply for the reopening of proceedings or a complaint for the reopening of proceedings, the task of which is, on the one hand, to eliminate from the legal market a decision which has been issued on the basis of non-constitutional provisions and, on the other hand, to issue a new decision, based on a new legal situation, one which should not cause such infringements. In the case of a constitutional complaint, it must also be borne in mind that there is another defect resulting from how the Constitutional Tribunal can decide when its judgment enters into force. The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal may be so called. a deferral clause, i.e. the Constitutional Tribunal, may postpone the entry into force of its judgment for up to 18 months. If a person obtains a favourable ruling stating the non-constitutionality of a normative act, but for some well-known reasons, whether due to economics, the budget of the State, or just a certain pragmatism, he will postpone the date of entry into force of his ruling, he will be pleased to have a favourable judgment of the Court, but he will have to wait until the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal enters into force so that he can run the entire procedure relating to the reopening of proceedings. An emergency complaint allows, in the event of a breach of the judgment of the court of freedom and constitutional rights, to eliminate, first of all, this non-constitutional settlement, i.e. it introduces the possibility which a constitutional complaint raised repeatedly in various statements at the moment does not give. What does that tell you? I ask you, when in the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, this is due to the transcripts of the work of this committee, it was pointed out that a measure such as a constitutional complaint had to be introduced, it was feared that there would be a flood of the Constitutional Court with these complaints, especially in cases where they would be entitled to judicial decisions. But for example. in the Federal Republic of Germany, the constitutional complaint makes it possible to challenge the decision which has been given in the case. What are the consequences? If a federal tribunal concludes that a ruling under the applicable law is correctly formulated, i.e. as regards the applicable rules, there has been no infringement, it shall, secondly, begin to examine whether the provisions on the basis of which this decision was based are in line with the Constitution. So, first of all, on the basis of a constitutional complaint, the person concerned may obtain the annulment of a judgment which is wrong, and if the judgment was correct, then the tribunal is only in charge of prosecuting the constitutionality of the rules. In Poland, the situation is completely different. The Constitutional Tribunal does not examine the compatibility with the Constitution of individual decisions. This is not enough if the constitutional action concerns only questioning an individual decision, then the Court of Justice will reject such a constitutional action as inadmissible in a court of law. There is another point that is worth paying attention to when it comes to a constitutional complaint and which has not been raised. A constitutional complaint may be lodged within 3 months of the date of the final decision. From the point of view of the person concerned, it is quite serious to limit the possibility of investigating violations of the Constitution by a ruling based on non-constitutional rules... in the exercise of their rights. As regards matters relating to Article. 34 and changing the content of the vows, yes, it is a change intended, highlighting the importance of constitutional regulations... [[The removal of the Constitution is intended?]] Mr. Senator, there are no constitutional regulations at the moment. [[But they were.]] [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: No, it was not.]] No, it never was. Currently, the court's vow is enshrined in the current provisions of the Supreme Court Act, in the article. 27 §1, and it reads: "I pledge solemnly as judge of the Supreme Court to serve faithfully the Republic of Poland, to uphold the law, to fulfil the duties of the judge conscientiously, to exercise justice in accordance with the law, impartially according to my conscience, to keep the secret legally protected, and to follow the principles of dignity and integrity.' Senator, all the judges and all the asessors in Poland are declaring rota by vowing to uphold the law, but there is no constitutional law. Believe me, the same rotation of vows in respect of this part is in common courts, in administrative courts, in assesors and in common courts, and in administrative courts, and the same is true in the case of the Supreme Court Act. Therefore, there has never been a reference to the constitution here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u227	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the wording of the article. 117. This is a transitional provision that tells about what happens when a judge or judicial assistant has, apart from Polish, other citizenship. There is a transitional period of 6 months for him to renounce this citizenship. In general it is a very good direction, that in an increasing number of laws, starting with laws concerning the police, the army, and ending with laws concerning, say, the state service, only Polish citizenship is required, because this loyalty must be clearly defined towards the Polish state. Just to be clear, it has to be a procedure, always, there has to be a beginning and an end. Here, the beginning is very clear. The time of entry into force of the Act. The question is, what is a judge or an asessor supposed to do then? He must address the authority of another country, I do not know, e.g. renunciation of the nationality of that country. The question is more specific: is there a procedure in Polish law that determines the minimum extent of behaviour of such a person, so that this person demonstrates at least the intention, the desire to renounce citizenship? Is there a specific way in which Polish citizenship is renounced in any other legal act? That's the first line. Two. Will it be effective to request the surrender of citizenship itself or to obtain confirmation of this waiver from another country's authority? Because these are two different things. Third line. Maybe it's time to just turn it into a citizenship bill. Because only since 1962 in our law is there such a record that Polish law recognizes... i.e. it does not affect the nationality of another State. Until 1962, the nationality of another country was prohibited. It's a big step... But isn't it time... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] Yes, sir. So that this last question is such a directional question and this specific question concerning the procedure, so that this law is simply clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to ask what amendments were agreed with the President on this project, which is up to date and which is not up to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u231	Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u232	Thank you very much. My question actually concerns the same subject as the question of Senator Czerwiński, namely the possession only of Polish citizenship by Supreme Court judges. I'm gonna say a few words, and I actually want you to comment on that. It's a change, because it hasn't been a requirement so far. The Minister justified this change by the fact that in the case of several other professions or functions, including special services, such a provision exists. Based on the fact that he exists, you expand him to include the Supreme Court judges. Following this path, such a ban could be introduced in a moment in respect of various other professions. This is wrong, because the requirement to have Polish citizenship is only symbolic. If someone resigns from citizenship, it doesn't change his loyalty. He might be upset that he had to do it. In short, if we were to follow this line of reasoning I'm talking about the reasons you gave me. It's after a certain, sufficiently long time... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...people with dual citizenship could stay in Poland, for example. Bakers only. Is this reasoning correct, and why is this extension occurring?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u233	Thank you very much. Minister, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u234	Thank you very much. As regards issues relating to the surrender of citizenship, the Act provides for a period of six months from its entry into force. It must be taken into account that the deadline for the entry into force of the Act is three months. That's the vacathio legis. It can be said that the person who is the Supreme Court judge and possibly fulfils the condition of having several citizenships will be able to renounce the others. She'll actually have nine months to submit to this procedure. The surrender procedure of a country's nationality shall always be governed by national rules. There are no regulations in the Polish country that indicate how to renounce the citizenship of another country. The Polish Citizenship Act and our constitutional regulations govern this procedure, but only in the event of the surrender of Polish citizenship. The procedure is that an appropriate application must be submitted via the consulate or directly to the voivodeship. This proposal, together with relevant opinions, is then sent to the President's Office and the President decides whether or not to waive Polish citizenship. Each time national law regulates in detail the procedure related to consent or the loss of nationality of the State concerned. In Polish legislation, we cannot impose on other countries how this type of procedure is to be carried out. How long has this procedure been going on in other countries? It's hard for me to say. I can tell you how much such a procedure takes in Poland, when someone wants to renounce Polish citizenship. It seems that the first basic thing that should serve as an indication that the judge is trying to meet certain conditions is to show that he has applied for a waiver of citizenship. Given the overall long, 9-month time limit for fulfilling this requirement, it seems that there should not be such a situation that at the time of the entry into force of the Act, after the expiry of the said time limit, someone will still not meet this condition. It's the only way I can answer. About Senator Wach's question. It is very strongly linked to Senator Czerwinski's question. I'm going to say that the law determines what conditions must be met in order to be a judge. If this is to be defined by the law, then the legislator has full freedom in terms of shaping these conditions. This is what I pointed out to you here earlier, saying that the presidential submission differs from the law that was passed in July, among others. records of the conditions that must be met in order to be a Supreme Court judge. Such a new condition, a condition which did not follow from the previous law, is e.g. the requirement for a person applying for the post of Supreme Court judge to be over 40 years of age. The legislator is free to shape conditions and a condition which can also be introduced is a requirement to have only Polish citizenship. It seems to me that it is crucial to remember what role the judge plays in the Polish system. The judge is not an ordinary official who is employed at a public office. The judge holds the power of the state in the field of justice. It is the judge who gives the judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland, the judge is the personal substrate of the judicial authority. Therefore, the creation here in the case of judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of requirements higher than other state functions is justified. As regards the current submission on which you are proceeding, namely the Supreme Court Act, there are a number of specific changes, for example, in relation to the original proposal, namely the President's proposal, which has been submitted. in respect of an emergency complaint. There have also been changes concerning jurors, among others. that the jury cannot be the person who belongs to the political party or the person who is a Member of the European Parliament. There were also changes, as I mentioned earlier, in the area of disciplinary action in the courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u235	Thank you, Minister. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to clarify my question.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u236	Minister, because it's going to be life's business, perhaps weighing on the future of the people in question. Does this mean that the mere resignation of a foreign State to the authority of a foreign State is equivalent to the wording of the statement "no', whether it must be effective, i.e. that person must present to his superior an act of another State that renounces that nationality, show that he is no longer a national of that State? It's so important that, as I say, it can stretch through time. If the person showed good will, expressed his will and resigned, he demonstrated it in the form of an official act addressed to another country... Maybe that's enough. Confirmation is not important because it is a question of loyalty. And the second part of the question: isn't it time to simply amend the Polish citizenship law so as to bring it into line? Then there will be no problems with other functions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u237	You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u238	You mentioned that the July Act had extinguished all the terms of the Supreme Court judges by law. This bill, which we are considering at the moment, extinguishes it due to a reduction in the retirement age of the judges. How would you deal with the charge that this law does not, however, agree with the article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 1st constitution, which states, describes the ban on the removal of a judge from his post?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u239	Good. Thank you. And Mr. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. Do you know who will be running for this new Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u241	And Mr. Senator... [[Minister, don't you know?]] [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: I am not a fairy.]] Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u242	Minister, Marshal Seweryński, reporting here, referred to constitutional charges, only that he used arguments which, in my opinion, are inadmissible, at least as regards the term of office of the first Supreme Court President. Well, no law has the right to shorten its term of office, because it is enshrined in the Constitution. What you referred to as a marshal was a statutory provision. In the opinion of our Legislative Bureau, which was based on previous opinions... In all the opinions I know, this is made clear. It is absolutely unconstitutional. I'd like to ask her to prove that you're not pushing the bill to shorten your term of office... Not by law, because it's constitutionally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u243	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan wants to ask? Because I thought... [[No, no. In the next series, Mrs. Marshal.]] ...that you just asked a question. Yes? [[Yes, I did.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u244	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. The basic importance is the act of renunciation, i.e. the presentation of a document confirming that action has actually been taken in order to have only Polish citizenship. And that's the key issue. This means that measures are being taken to actually have only Polish citizenship, i.e. meet this requirement of being a Supreme Court Judge. As regards issues concerning the Polish Citizenship Act... Act on Polish Citizenship in Art. 3 Collision issues are dealt with in the case of persons who have several citizenships. This article indicates that before the Polish authorities, a person who has multiple citizenship cannot rely on these other citizenships because he is treated as a Polish citizen. I can point out to the senator an example we once encountered at the law firm. It turned out that the person who was appointed as ambassador has 2 citizenships of the sending State, as well as Polish citizenship. And there was a problem how this person, who is an ambassador, is to be treated in Poland. According to Art. 3 such a person is treated as a Polish citizen, because all persons who have Polish citizenship, whether or not they have other One nationality or more They will always be treated as Polish citizens. Therefore, if such a person wishes to be subject to diplomatic law and enjoy diplomatic privileges, he must renounce the nationality of the host State so that this collision does not occur. Therefore, in other countries too, this requirement is sometimes formulated for certain authorities. And that's why it's not new, even under the laws of other countries. And as for Senator Klich's question, which indicated that the July bill had extinguished the term of office, and that the President's bill was extinguished due to age... Mr. Senator, Art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 the Constitution indicates that the Act sets the age limit after which the judges retire. In addition, the Act also provides for a procedure for the President's consent to continue to take office by a person who is over sixty-five years of age. [[It doesn't change anything.]] Not exactly, because the term of office is not extinguished by law, and a judge who is over sixty-five years of age may ask the President to agree to continue to take office and remain an active judge. [[That doesn't change anything either.]] Therefore, it is merely the senator's opinion as to whether there is a change or not, because it assumes that the President has the wrong will and will, of course, never consent to any extension of the possibility of ruling in the Supreme Court. [[But you can't expect that.]] Therefore, I, with the senator's opinion, will not discuss here, because, as I say, it is only the senator's opinion. [[It's not just that.]] As for the issues related to shortening your term of office, for which you have again called Senator Augustine... Senator, I recommend reading the opinion of Mr Marek Dobrowolski, a professor from the Catholic University of Lublin. He pointed out in his opinion that it was the legislator who shaped the conditions that must be met in order to be a person of office, whether the first President or the President of the Supreme Court. It is not enough that, in various types of constitutional law studies, it is stressed that at the time of appointment as President of the Supreme Court or the first President of the Supreme Court, this person must be an active judge and the legislator determines the conditions to be met in order to continue this function. Therefore, there is no shortening of the term of office, which results directly from the laws, here is simply an indication of the conditions which must be met by law in order to take over the position of President or First President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u245	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Jan Filip Libicki a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u246	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. Maybe a little more theoretical, and maybe you've answered it before, but I haven't been through the whole debate. In July, Mr. President vetoed the Supreme Court Act. This veto has not been considered. As I understand it, you are presenting today a project in which these flaws, which the president thought were and forced him to veto, are removed. Now let's assume that today's Supreme Court Act will be overruled and that the President will sign it, and then the veto that awaits the vote will be broken, which means that there will be an appropriate majority in the Seym and this July bill that the President vetoed, I understand, will enter into force because of mistakes. What happens then? Don't you think we'll be dealing with some kind of collision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u247	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My question concerns this age. I believe that only at the age of 65, man is actually mature, has gained experience, has another look at everything that has happened so far, has a distance to reality, to things that may have previously been seen differently. I think today, when we live for a really long time, 65 years, that's an absurd line. If... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I'm not disturbing anyone... [[Senator, ask me a question.]] ...so I'd ask you not to bother me, too. I'm looking at, for example. to the United States, where the Supreme Court judge is 84 years old and performs this function well. And if someone doesn't feel up to it, first of all, they won't take it, and second of all, if there's a health breakdown, they'll probably withdraw or resign. Where did that line come from? What really is the reason that it's the limit of 65 years, not 68, 70, 80? Because it's really surprising.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u249	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Because there are many such voices that these laws and all this judicial reform will deprive judges of independence. It's very elevated. And I personally believe that judicial independence can depreciate, can be deprived of by the judge himself. Because no politician can get inside the judge's head. If the judge is honest, conscientious, he has a moral backbone, he doesn't have the strength to force him to give one or another judgment, and he doesn't have the strength to press him politically in any way. Do you agree with me, or do I misunderstand? I would ask you very much to respond to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u251	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. With regard to the question of Senator Libicki, I would like to say that this is a situation similar to that which arises in the event that the President makes a request to the Constitutional Tribunal within the framework of the so-called. preventative control, i.e. before the signing of the law, and the Sejm in the meantime, before the Court gives its ruling, will adopt provisions of the same wording, the President will sign them and these provisions will become the law in force. This was the case, among others. in 2015, when President Komorowski addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and certain other Acts. Before the Constitutional Tribunal, which had given its ruling in this case only last year, settled the case, there was the adoption of a law which implemented certain provisions of this very contested law addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal. The judgment was announced, a law was published which introduced these amendments. And it was analogical, you could say, situation. The legal system suddenly contains 2 provisions: one of this law, which has been challenged and the other of this law, which has been passed and signed in the meantime. And the constitution does not resolve such a situation when there is a collision related to the fact that, for example. The President has benefited from a preventive proposal, the Court has been considering this proposal for a long time, and in the meantime there has been the adoption of a law which partly or even fully covers the same range of cases. And the same is true of a veto. The President's request for review of the bill, the one who decides when such a proposal will be put to the vote, is the Marshal of the Sejm. Therefore, questions concerning when, under what circumstances, this will happen, should be addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm as the one who broadcasts all requests to the Sejm. Now I'm asking Senator Dowhan about the question about the age of retirement. Mr. Senator, at the beginning of my speech, I pointed out that this is a reference to the changes that apply to the law of the general courts. There, this limit to resting was set at 65 years for men and 60 years for women. In the case of the Supreme Court, this is the uniform limit of the age of retirement set at 65 years, and women only at their own request. I mean, only when they come out with an initiative. They may retire after the age of sixty. It seems to me that comparing Polish solutions with solutions in force in the United States is at least unauthorised. First of all, because of the so-called. the path to the profession of judge. In the United States this is the crowning of the legal profession, in Poland this path to becoming a professional is completely different. I in the Sejm quoted the statements of one of the representatives of the Polish Judges' Association, which indicated that she became a judge at the age of about 30 years, maybe about 10 years old, and is already so tired that she wants to maintain those provisions that talk about the possibility of early retirement by judges. Thus, a pragmatism indicates that because there is a different path to becoming a judge, otherwise these conditions may also be shaped, which justify a judge's transition to a resting state. And the solutions that are in force or are adopted in the presidential bill and this law already adopted by the Sejm refer to those which are in force in the law on the general court system from 1 October this year. I absolutely don't see any threat to the independence of the judge here. I emphasized this by answering your senators' questions in the context of the National Judicial Council Act. This independence is this inner independence, the independence of the judge who issues the ruling. And of course, as you said today, there are various forms of guaranteeing this independence, but how the judge is shaped, how his conscience is shaped, the legislator or even the appointing or evaluating judges have no influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u253	You're asking Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u254	Minister, I'm still... Minister, can I ask you this question again... [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] Yeah, whatever. I would like to refer to the question of Senator Libicki, which is the issue of an unattended veto, so purely theoretically, for the future. In your opinion, is this issue subject to discount, which means that by the end of this term, we can have a purely theoretical problem or not? How do you think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u255	The Veto is not covered by the abolition of the discounting rule, i.e. in accordance with the applicable law, if the Sejm of this term in which the President's request for review of the bill has been received does not consider this proposal, the Sejm of the new term of office cannot deal with it. I would remind you that in 2015 we had this situation when the 4 veto of the President had just been included in the principle of discounting and the Sejm had not dealt with these presidential requests for reconsideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u256	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u257	I maintain, Minister, what I have said about the impossibility or inability to remove judges, in accordance with Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. But in the same context as the Minister said, that the July Act had this flaw, that, by virtue of the law, it extinguished all the terms of the Supreme Court judges... And how's that for the new art solution? Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3, concerning the first President of the Supreme Court, where is it explicit that the term of office of the first President lasts six years? In this case, are you in any way able to defend the thesis that this law does not violate the constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u258	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u259	The minister's resting, but I think that's a good thing. I may address the Minister, but in connection with your response. Namely, I would ask you to justify what regulations give you to the President... And according to your project, it is possible that the President will agree to continue to take office by the judge after he is sixty-five years old. On this occasion, I would like to point out that a significant proportion of the Supreme Court judges are professors, who, for example, are professors. at their universities, they have the right to occupy their posts and carry out all activities until the age of seventy. And there's no body to verify them. I would also like the Minister to say what criteria the President is to follow. Is this supposed to be the president's whim? He's gonna extend it and not the other guy? On the basis of what criteria would that be? [[Thank you very much...]] If these criteria are not available, then opinions indicate that this is a serious threat at least to those external features of independence, because the politician that the president is... [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] What do you mean it's not? He's a politician elected president. So the politician will have the right to decide whether or not to extend his term of office in the Supreme Court. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u261	On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (1) shall apply for an adjournment until Friday, 15 December, until 11 a.m. We're gonna have another hour, I don't know which one... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: For two weeks.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator... which one?]] I'll see you Friday by 11:00. We don't even have time to celebrate the anniversary of martial law, which is today's anniversary. I therefore make such an application.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u262	Good. [[And I'm asking you to vote him out.]] Mr. Senator... [[It's by the book.]] Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quorum is based on this...]] Because there's no quorum... [[No, based on the security footage, it is, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: They're in parliament. Yes, they're in parliament.]] Mr. Senator! This is a really unnecessary malice. [[No, really...]] You know perfectly well that I was right at the time, because you were in the O.R. So please don't make such comments to me. [[I'm sorry if you've taken this as a comment... but I'm telling you, I'm not...]] We can't vote on this motion until the quorum is met, so we'll wait, Mr... [[Time out? Time out?]] No, we're still sitting. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...but whether there is a quorum or there is no quorum will decide the vote...]] [[Exactly.]] [[...and not you, so to speak, arbitrary will. I'm so sorry.]] [[And I'd like to know how you're gonna judge when it's a quorum. It's not like there's a meter at the door.]] [[You can count it.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I think the Minister too...]] Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I am announcing a recess until 11:00 p.m., which means there will be a 16-minute recess. [[Thank you.]] There you go. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 44 to 23 minutes 00]] High Izbo, resume. [[Can we check the quorum on the security footage?]] Yeah, you guys can check the security footage or whatever you want. [[Thank you.]] In order to determine the quorum, I propose that the senators be converted by means of voting apparatus. [[Not a vote?]] [[Well, there was supposed to be a vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the apparatus should already be active, so that I ask you to press the button. [[But wait, you can explain...]] [[But, Mrs. Marshal, we are voting, as I understand it, on the formal motion of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.]] We're not voting on your marshal's motion because we don't know if we have a quorum. I want to know if we have a quorum, ladies and gentlemen. [[But it's with the vote that we'll see if we have a quorum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u263	This is a scandal! At the vote, he'll come out whether there's a quorum or not. During the vote on a properly submitted formal motion, Mrs Marshal. A formal application has been duly submitted and therefore requires a vote and not a quorum to be checked in advance, since the attendance list shows that the quorum is. [[And we saw the PS senators come in and out.]] [[And they left.]] [[Voices from the hall: They're out!]] [[But the buffet's closed.]] [[They left before the vote, breaking the quorum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, I have ordered a quorum. Please press the button... [[But right now, which button?]] [[But which one? Do you think you're gonna be okay with this? I don't know.]] [[No, I didn't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Whichever one, because we're counting on being in the O.R... I mean, no, no, no. The button is a button. Please... [[No, we're not voting.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry, what does that mean, no matter which button? There are the buttons, the counter and the abstentions.]] [[Voice from the room: What does that mean? Can I have a microphone?]] [[Please present the relevant article...]] Only one button, behind it, he's glowing. [[And that's how we're gonna find a quorum?]] [[And what does that tell you? What does the rules say?]] We'll see if we have a quorum or if we don't have a quorum. [[No, Mrs. Marshal, I just want to hear or by pressing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u265	On behalf of our club, please present the relevant article in the Rules of Procedure, which allows the quorum to be checked before a formal application submitted by one of the senators is put to the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let me remind you, we're being watched. Because I'm getting information that we're being watched.]] [[Jurek, take pictures while we're...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u266	Good. Gentlemen and ladies... Gentlemen of the Senators! Since your doubts raised the way in which I ordered the quorum to be established, I put to the vote the Marshal's request. [[It's amazing.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And we're about to know if we have a quorum. [[Oh, that's easy!]] [[Rules of procedure.]] [[Rules of procedure.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, please provide the results. 21 senators voted, 18 were in favour, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] The motion's been dropped. [[Mrs. Marshal, if I may make a formal request...]] Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u267	As a result of what happened, i.e. the collective departure of the Senators of Law and Justice from the Chamber, I request that the Seniors Convention be convened immediately on this matter. Because it's not a joke, it's not a game. These are fundamental matters for the government that we are debating today. I move for an immediate convent of the Senior Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u268	Mr. Senator, as far as I know, you're not a marshal. [[You're a marshal.]] [[I suggest we vote it out.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such formal request. If the senator thinks he's gonna need a convention, I suggest we call him in tomorrow morning. Now I'm going to proceed with the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal, may I? Of course, I'm maintaining it. There was one important word there. Okay, now we're gonna have to do this right now. It's about calling an immediate convention because this case can't wait until tomorrow. We can wait, but this case can't wait. The Senior Convention must be settled regardless of how many members of the Senior Convention are present or absent. Please take this request into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u270	Mr. Senator, I don't take this proposal into account. There is no such formal proposal and I do not take this proposal into account. We proceed with the further questioning of the Minister. You're welcome. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan. [[I understand your marshal rejected this motion.]] Yes. [[Mrs. Marshal, the P.I.S. Senators can come in now.]] [[They can come back.]] [[Come back to us.]] Mr. Senator, you've often left the room and entered the O.R. [[Impossible.]] [[We're sitting in the O.R.]] [[We're sitting down.]] Don't exaggerate. It's different. Sometimes there's only a few people in the room, sometimes there's two. [[But there's always someone.]] [[Invite the PiS senators.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Mr. Marshal, if you wish, please invite them. [[I'll invite you. It'll be over in a minute.]] We're back on the agenda. [[The vote's over.]] Don't argue with me, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Now we move on to asking questions. [[I'm gonna go ask my piss buddies. The vote's over.]] You're a free man, you can do whatever you want. [[Yet.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's make a formal request for an adjournment.]] Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Although I don't know if I should ask you a question. Is this gonna be binding right now? [[Mr. Senator, did I say something vague?]] Good. I have a question. Minister, please indicate to me where the bill is, which will make the courts work better, more efficiently, that judgments will be delivered faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u272	That's it? Yes. [[I asked the question before recess. The Minister remembers?]] Good. You're still Senator Libicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u273	Thank you. Minister, I'll go back to my question I asked the Minister. The Minister said that if there was such a situation that the bill that we are proceeding at the moment would be signed by the President, and at the same time the July Supreme Court Act would be passed in the Sejm and enter into force, we would have the parallel of certain solutions. The Constitution does not determine this. That's how I understand what the Minister said. Which solutions have priority then, and which are kind of secondary. So I'd like to ask you something. There's a difference between these projects. As I understand it, in the first draft of July, the terms of the Supreme Court judges are extinguished by the law, and in the solution you propose, they are extinguished with the moment when the judge reaches the age of 65. In this example... If these two solutions are applied in parallel, will the Supreme Court judges retire under the first resolution of July, or by law, or after reaching a certain age? What do you consider to be the authors of the bill? What interpretation should be accepted here? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, a new institution of a very broad disciplinary court is being introduced... [[Discipline chambers.]] Yes, the disciplinary chambers. But this is the Supreme Court. ... With very broad competences, including issues not only in the scope of the group of judges' corporations, but also others. My question is that under this arrangement a benefit, remuneration, supplement is granted... I don't remember exactly. I'm sorry. It's a 40% wage increase. Whether by this the legislator, Mr President, wants to introduce the principle of distinguishing judges not so much because of diligence, effort or work difficulties, but because of, as they say, the exercise of special supervision as well as, let's face it, the separation of these judges from the others. Don't you think the legislator is wrong about that? If this principle is accepted in the company, the sentry of this company, who also checks all employees, including the CEO who goes to work, should also earn 40% of the income. More than that president. And the policeman who controls his commandant in connection with the possibility of alcohol consumption? Don't you think he should get 40%, too? More? What kind of rule is that anyway?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One by one, I will answer the questions that were asked before the break and after the break. As to Senator Bogdan Klich's question, she explained it. Minister Surówka-Pasek, but I will point to these circumstances again, very briefly this time. As regards the provision of the Article. 180 of the Constitution, he is the one in paragraph 1. 4. that the law sets the limit of the age after which the judges are retired and in paragraph 4. 5 that in the event of a change in the system of courts, it is in principio art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The judge may be transferred to a resting state. There is no doubt that this view is expressed, among others. in the legal opinion of Marek Dobrowolski, a professor of constitution from the Catholic University of Lublin, mentioned here, and similarly it is also included in the opinion of Professor Banaszak. Moreover, the same similar legal situation at the statutory level was pointed out by the Senator rapporteur, Professor, Marshal Michał Seweryński, on the basis of the law on higher education. And the conclusion is that it is not possible to lay down the provision of the Article in isolation from other provisions of the Constitution. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. It must be pointed out that only a non-retired judge, an active judge, can be the first President of the Supreme Court. And here I am referring to the opinion of Professor Dobrowolski and Professor Banaszak. On the basis of the law on higher education, there was a situation that the ordinary professor, who obtained the age prescribed by the Law, ceased to be a rector. It was not until later that this provision was amended, since it was the term of office of Minister Kudrycka. It has been pointed out that by law there is this kind of effect on the rector, and in order to change that, another provision has been added to the bill. I would say that it is the opposite: to break this principle that you have to be an active judge in order to hold a function position, you should change the constitution, and today this kind of project is not procedated or submitted. So that we are not dealing with any contradiction here. The constitutional legitimacy of these legal arrangements is Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 and paragraph 1. 5. You can't do that. 183 interpret without indicating this basic principle. As regards the question of the basis of competence as regards the actions of the President, of course, Senator, the constitution explicitly states that the President is acting within the scope set out in the Constitution and also in the laws. Laws are also an important element. There's no doubt that competence... In addition, an article published in the Rzeczpospolita a few days ago, an article by Dr. Krzysztof... [[...the President's bill is being solved by the Senate.]] The article published in the Rzeczpospolita, an article present in Dr Krzysztof Szczucki's Chamber, in such a popular form also explains these circumstances. If the law is not contrary to the Constitution, it is not contrary to the scope of the presidential prerogatives, powers and competences set out in the Constitution, it can, of course, be the basis for the granting of certain powers. About the question of expression... That's the first question I'll put together with the other one... [[Excuse me, Minister. So there's an imaginary situation...]] But if the senator would allow me to finish and listen to the answer... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[I want to ask you a question.]] Mr. Senator, I'd like to... [[Can I ask you a question?]] I'd like to ask the senator... [[You can still do it.]] [[May I ask, Mrs. Marshal?]] [[Mr. Senator, no. Let the minister answer, and then you can ask.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Wait for the full answer.]] Perhaps if the senator hadn't spoken in the course of your reply, the Minister of Surviva-Pasek wouldn't have repeated the questions. That's my point on the margin. [[Applause]] [[She's really not pretty, because I listened very carefully, and I think you saw it wrong.]] Mr. Senator, if you don't mind... I return to the fact that both the constitution and the laws define the powers of the President, and I point to the issue of regulation, which is included today, for example, in the article. 69 law on the system of common courts, as regards the competence of the Minister of Justice, as regards the possibility of agreeing to continue to hold the position of Judge. Here we have very general criteria, here is the rational use of judicial staff and the needs arising from the burden of tasks. On the other hand, I would point out that in the case of a solution which concerned this competence of the National Judicial Council, no criteria were defined either. Now, back to Senator Klich's question, I'll say yes. Today, we do not know in advance whether the first President of the Supreme Court will make such a request for consent by the President of the Republic of Poland, assuming that the Act will become applicable law. Well, if she did, the president will judge it, as with all the judges who will be subject to this objective criterion... [[Minister, we're not talking about a specific Kazus, we're talking about the law. Yes?]] ...age, specific... [[I'm asking about legal solutions and their compatibility with the constitution...]] [[Your marshal promised I could ask...]] [[...not about... not about a specific case. I'm not asking about a specific case. I'm asking about the constitutional compatibility of the bill.]] [[Mr. Senator, can't you really wait for the Minister to finish his statement?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, maybe.]] [[But the minister promised I'd be able to ask. Yes?]] I'm trying to answer further. About... [[But me or Mr. Senator Klich? Because I don't know now.]] [[Take it easy.]] [[Rules! Rules!]] [[Mr. Senator, a little serious. Well, at least a little serious.]] Mrs. Marshal, may I? [[Yes, please, Minister.]] So it seems that these are issues so obvious to anyone who reaches for a copy of the Constitution that they do not require further detailed justification. With regard to the senator's question on the issues which the provisions of the Act improve the situation from the perspective of the parties, participants in the proceedings or from a social perspective, it must be clearly pointed out that at least three legal, fundamental institutions, which are included in the Law on the Supreme Court, give such a socially desirable effect. This is primarily a matter of introducing jurors to the Supreme Court, which is precisely an element of the social factor, which is also a mapping of the provision of the article. 182 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that the participation of citizens in the exercise of justice is governed by a law. It is a very general constitutional provision, but indicating the direction that the legislator had in mind, recognising that this participation is desirable and necessary. For us, there is no doubt that the jury, whether it is a disciplinary judge or a party to the ruling, as regards the issue of the recognition of an emergency complaint, is also more confidence in the justice system, and precisely the introduction of an element of life experience, assuming that we are dealing with a mixed composition, which includes both professional judges and jurors. And this competence of life experience, very different, because this choice of jury will be made, it is an indication that in this regard disciplinary responsibility is needed, it is also an element of such social justice control, strengthening legitimacy and trust in justice, as well as ruling on disciplinary matters. Especially where we have a basis, also in an emergency complaint, where we are talking about mapping the need to maintain the rule of law and justice. And this social factor is one of these elements. Undoubtedly, the second element to be said about, which is closely related to the former, is the emergency complaint. The Minister has already spoken quite extensively on this subject, but it may be worth noting that in those cases where there is a final judgment that violates the principles or values expressed in the Constitution, where there is a gross violation of the law, or where there is an obvious contradiction of the evidence collected with the decision, there is a basis for such an evident error of the court to be removed, even when the appeal has not previously been granted and there is a situation of certain helplessness. Believe that lawyers of practitioners, and more than that, also senators or Members who engage in contacts and legal assistance for citizens, know such cases when a lawyer This is also the case for a gross violation of the law. It knows that this decision is flawed, incorrect, is inconsistent with the judicial line, whether it is not supported at all in the footnotes of the law, and it was not possible to challenge... And it's for the citizens, Mr. Senator. This is extremely necessary, desirable and citizens will surely feel it if this legal institution enters into force. And finally, disciplinary justice. We say quite consciously that this is a pillar of trust in the justice system, that is a pillar of trust not only to the Supreme Court, but also to representatives of these legal professions, which will also be covered by the legal standards of this law in the field of its standardization... of its application. This is a reconstruction of trust in the Polish justice system, but it is also an indication that the social factor will participate in the evaluation of these disciplinary delicacies. About Senator Libicki's question... In accordance with the principle of rule-of-law autonomy, and also without, I'll be honest with you, the power to speak about the exercise of powers by the Marshal of the Sejm... I do not feel entitled to make hypothetical considerations about what kind of legal situation might be in the case of one or another behaviour of the Marshal of the Sejm. [[We've got a field to run.]] The Constitution in the event of these circumstances does not constitute... a deadline. In this sense, it does not state that it does not specify a time limit for examining a request for review of the law. However, you can also imagine hypothetically this kind of situation, that we will have to deal with some activity, e.g. during the period of vacathio legis law. However, these are the circumstances that the senator can explain with the Marshal of the Sejm, possibly with the Sejm Chancellery, with the legal services of the Sejm Chancellery. So I'm sorry that... But I also point to the constitutional standard of art. 112. This is in my opinion the sphere that the Marshal of the Sejm should speak of. As regards the question of Senator Rulewski, it must be pointed out that judges who will rule in the Disciplinary Chamber are not subject to this general regulation, which, as a result of the amendments, is a model of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal's Statute as regards the possibility of additional employment. So they have a certain legal situation in negative compared to other judges from other departments. They can't. In a simple way, they cannot do any other activity that could be an additional source of income. There was therefore a need of this kind and so is the ratio legis of this regulation To make it right for them so they're not wronged. And that limit you asked for was set at 40%. After the discussions, after the work in the Seym... This regulation has been amended, but ultimately it represents a mapping of the legal framework as regards the possibility of additional employment, in particular as an academic teacher or an employment in scientific institutions, from the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, I think I've answered all the questions. [[Mrs. Marshal, I will now take advantage of this promise that I may ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u278	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u279	Minister, since the law can be given powers to the President, unless it is contrary to the Constitution, We assume that no law before the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is contrary to the Constitution It can be assumed that any competence can be given to the President by an ordinary law. Yes? Is that how you understand this statement? [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr. Senator...]] Well, for example. We're gonna shorten our term of office. I don't know. Senators who are more than that and so many years old. Until it's established that it's not in accordance with the constitution... Or the president can extend this term and so on. I'm bringing this into absurdity on purpose, to show that this argument simply leads to an assailant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u280	Mr. Senator, anything can be brought to absurdity. I would like to appeal to the fact that there is also the opinion of Professor Banashak in this area regarding the fact that it is justified to... With all due respect to the senator... Professor Banashak is an outstanding constitutionalist, author of numerous comments and publications... [[I can quote other authors.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I don't see that quote. I see an argument based on my own belief. But we point out that there are no legal doubts in this regard. And since the great constitutionalist is also Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek, I would like additional educational explanations for the senator from the Minister. [[But this malice is out of place.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Why?]] Unless you want to educate the professors whose words I can quote right here. [[It's educational at home.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, there are state offices for which the shortening of the term of office is precisely specified in the constitutional provisions. This is the case with regard to the Sejm and the Senate, in the case of the President of the Republic of Poland. You know perfectly well that the Senate's term of office can only be shortened in three situations, 2 of which are related to the adoption of an appropriate order by the President. The first case is where none of the procedures, i.e. de facto Article, has been established. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in The second case, also in the hands of the President, is if, in due course, the budget bill is not passed and submitted to the President. The third case envisaged by the Constitution is the adoption of a resolution by the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory composition to shorten its own term of office, but this is also followed by a shortening of the Senate term. In other cases, the constitution does not, on the contrary, provide even for an extension of the term of office if it were to end during a state of emergency. With regard to the office of President, as well as the senator knows perfectly well, these are enumerated in the Constitution cases where the President may end his term of office before the expiry of five years. One such case is the death of the President, another: the declaration of permanent incapacity of the President to serve by the National Assembly, the submission of office in accordance with the judgment of the Court of State or the resignation of the President, or the annulment of the election of the President by the Supreme Court. Because, as we know very well, this can happen, especially when there were early elections. The Supreme Court, according to the electoral code, has 30 days to investigate whether the President's election was important or not. If the President is sworn in before the end of this period which the Supreme Court has to examine the validity of elections, then, as you know, this term may expire earlier. And in the case of other offices, this constitutional regulation refers to the law. And, for example, The law on the Ombudsman regulates how and in what situations the Ombudsman may be revoked by the Sejm. Let me remind you that this is the majority 3/5 votes in favour. They may revoke the Ombudsman if he has embezzled his oath if he has become permanently incapable of exercising his office. It also regulates issues related to the appeal of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, which says that he is being dismissed in certain situations by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, or the Act on the Protection of Personal Data, which contains appropriate regulations with regard to the General Data Protection Officer. So here we need to distinguish between two categories of situations relating to shortening the term of office of the bodies that have been discussed in the Constitution. One group of bodies is those for which the constitution regulates the shortening of the term of office in a very precise way. The second group of bodies are those bodies for which the Constitution regulates the duration of the term of office, but the regulation on the circumstances in which this term may be shortened is referred to the laws. And, as I told Mr. Senator, I only mentioned a few examples of offices that could lead to early termination of my term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u283	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u284	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you, if you don't mind. It is incomprehensible to me, Minister, why do you insist on retiring the Supreme Court judges at the age of sixty-five. [[Exactly.]] The current age, Minister, is 70 years old and the judges have so far worked without any problems. Minister, I'm 72 years old... [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Congratulations.]] ...and until recently I was very active, managed in several companies. And I declare to you that I was sane, and my decisions were supported by my deputies. That's one thing. Secondly, you are a bright man, Minister, and you know that in the world... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that in the modern world it is recognized that the judge In particular, we refer to the United States here. At the age of 70 or 65, he has the largest work experience. Minister, you know that better than anyone. [[Question.]] It would be good if you said... [[Question.]] ...what's really going on. [[Oh, yeah, I'm curious, too. Reagan was 69 when he became president.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'd like to finish my questions. [[There you go.]] My second question is this: why the idea of creating a Disciplinary Chamber? I've talked to a lot of pragmatists, practices... This idea of disciplinary judges is a muzzle, Minister, for independence. They're perfect... Sit down with your lawyers and talk, and don't invoke the same lawyers... Because there's a lot of lawyers and they have a lot of doubts. And the third, most important thing, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] What is the point of creating a new institution, an institution for social justice, when the powers to lodge a cassation complaint and an emergency review have been so widely proposed in the new law? None of the major lawyers in pragmatism really understand this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u285	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Stanisławek. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Stanisławek... You signed up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u286	Thank you very much. I thought since Senator Komarnicki asked three questions, it would be a complete set in this tour. I'm sorry, but I'm going back to this narrative... We're playing checkers, I like chess better, but I see the opposition is playing in the cap... [[Oh, yeah, a joke.]] [[Strong joke, strong joke.]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, strong.]] Night. It's not strong. It's nighttime. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did the opposition's questions, however, change your view of this bill? [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: A good question.]] That's the first question. Anyway... The second question is, unfortunately, a little... Senator Komarnicki asked such a question. I'm not a big fan of the idea of going to retirement when I'm 65... [[Thank you very much, Professor.]] But I'd like to tell you why. I'd see it so it's common. Not in the Supreme Court, but common... We retire at the age of 65 and unlock our jobs President, Director, Manager For the junior staff. [[Voice from the room: Nonsense!]] [[Some cosmic nonsense I've never heard in my life.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Culture...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Culture isn't here... [[Mr. Senator...]] Culture has a different meaning. That's not the point. [[Voice from the room: Discrimination based on age.]] So that, Minister, I absolutely agree with that, because this is a matter of certain capacity. Moreover, the present time runs very quickly. This is not the time of America when the judges were 90 years old, and progress was very slow. Progress is very fast right now. I can talk about medicine. In the course of the year we change 2-, 3-fold the procedure. We can't even keep up with what they're like... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] ...test results. Minister, I ask you to tell me if you can't see the indications of a transition to age... I mean, it's retirement or extinction or whatever... It's about age over 65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u287	And Mr. Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u288	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to continue with the thread that you started with Senator Komarnicki and which you then continued with Senator Stanisławek. Minister, the bill states that after over sixty-five years of age, a judge may ask the President to allow him to extend his post for another three years. Here's my question. On what grounds, because the bill is careless... what criteria can the President extend this time? But shouldn't it be possible to introduce a finite catalogue of reasons into the bill that would allow the President to extend this age to the age of sixty-eight years or not? Because the wording gives the President a very great opportunity to be free to make that decision. And that raises my doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u289	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u290	Mr. Senator, Professor Stanisławek has aroused my appetite for the question of the Minister, who is also the author of the previous law on the National Council of Courts. However, you, Minister, allow differentiation, because here at the National Council of the Court of Justice you will not be able to sit judges who are over 65 years old, but you will be able to sit a Member or a Senator who is 100 years old or a Minister who is 80 years old. How do you think, according to your criteria, cooperation will take place if you consider that judges may not be too old, but in the case of another member of this council may even be exceeded the limit of his physical and mental immunity? [[Thank you, Senator...]] And the question is, shouldn't this be changed in the case of the National Judicial Council so that no one on this board can be more than judges? So it's about leveling up here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u291	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the first question, about the question of Senator Komarnicki, today we have the general retirement age defined on such terms: 65 years for men, 60 years for women. This is the regulation of the President's initiative to restore the retirement age, which was also widely supported by Poles. These regulations have come into force since... [[But it was a choice, not a compulsion...]] ...October 1st of this year. And I point out that there are such limits in the various European legislations. You accept this American case as regards Supreme Court judges, while in European countries there are age limits. For 65 years, so it's not like it's a new novel, either, that's how we define it. I also point out that the judge's environment itself... Besides, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek spoke about it. There was such a statement at the committee meeting in the Polish parliament when the official representative... the official representative, because it was your judge from the Polish Judges' Association of Iustitia, said that the judge who ruled at the age of 50 sometimes has such a syndrome of professional exhaustion, fatigue, overload with work. [[But it's not age...]] Let us also consider that under the law on the system of common courts today, including the model which is in Polish law, a judge may be a person who is 29 years old. And to balance That's what the senator asked. As if both elements related to the work of the court, the work, the academic achievement and the question of the possibility of ruling in good health are those provisions which indicate that it is possible for the President to give his consent twice by these two years. Besides, a judge who won't be able to adjudicate later in the Supreme Court... Well, no one's denying his ability to continue his scientific activity or pursue other legal professions. On the other hand, we considered that the Supreme Court, due to its workload, should, however, be such a body where people sit and are fully prepared and fully prepared in view of the dynamics of the challenges. And this is a compromise that is expressed in this provision. As far as the Disciplinar Chamber is concerned, of course, there is such an objective need. That's what I'm talking about. Today there is no other factor in the image of judges burdening their image in a negative way, such as the issue of various disciplinary offences, sometimes also committed by judges of criminal offences. And this situation of strict, firm right to the liability of judges... I have stressed this repeatedly, and I have pointed out that we need to strengthen the institution in terms of disciplinary justice. About... Well, I guess I answered the first two or three questions. As for the senator's question, Professor Stanisławek, whether we are proceeding with something new and whether there have been any reflections on our part... To be perfectly honest, these issues have been discussed over and over again. And that is not a charge, of course, because this is the first time you have discussed this matter, but we have considered similar problems at the stage of the first, second, third reading or at the stage of the work of experts and some significant novel in asking or raising any extraordinary issues I have not seen. And the general view of the right to adopt this law and the need to introduce it from the perspective of citizens' interests is maintained: the jury in the Supreme Court, the emergency complaint or disciplinary justice are these main criteria. About Senator Slugocki's question... This is the third time repeated the same question, but I can answer it in one sentence. As regards the competence conferred on the National Courts of Justice, there are no detailed grounds for this extension either. As regards the provision of the article. 69 law on the system of common courts, which I quoted, and the Minister of Justice, this provision indicates these criteria very generally. And it is precisely this point that this area of competence of the President should be defined in such a way that the President may consider all these circumstances and make a rational decision. There is absolutely no authority to do this in the capacity of the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u293	Thank you, Minister. Senator Dowhan wanted to ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u294	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, if I may... The Minister didn't answer my third question, which was, if you don't mind, Mr. Minister. What is the point of creating a new institution for social justice when the new law proposes such a wide range of powers to bring a cassation complaint and an emergency review? You didn't answer my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u295	Do you have anything to add? [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm sorry, I actually forgot that question. There is no emergency review as regards the Supreme Court Act, there is an emergency complaint. But this is an institution that provides the basis for assessing inconcreto whether there is such a need. Because we're not talking about some new... We are talking about a new institution, but we are not talking about a permanent body, we are only talking about: if specific factual or legal circumstances in a given case are justified due to the unusualness of precisely, but also to the great importance of ruling on the basis of those regulations which we introduce into the law... If such circumstances justify such an Ombudsman being appointed, then in this case this competence is also granted to persons with great experience, legal knowledge. If they see such a need, this institution will be applicable. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u297	Thank you very much. [[You promised to answer the question...]] [[Microphone on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u298	Isn't there a preference in the National Judicial Council against the principle of psychophysical immunity adopted for the courts in the case of others who may be of unlimited age? 'Cause what's it gonna be like to have a conversation between the people you claim to have worked out, overworked people from other institutions... [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] And the good judges?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u299	Do you have anything to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u300	In one sentence, I'll answer. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is of course so that it is the competence of persons who perform certain public positions, as is the provision of the Article. 187 is the case. But I also have great faith in art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 3, as regards the fact that the Senate will always make the right choice, that the Sejm will always make the right choice, so that there will be people who are as predisposed as possible to sit in the National Courts. This is also due to my trust in the High House and my trust in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[You're very well-exalted. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u301	Thank you for trusting us. Senator Dowhan wants to ask you a question, right? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u302	Yes, yes, of course. Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, who's gonna make the Supreme Court rules? Is it going to be a politician or is it going to be the President himself?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u303	Please. [[It's from the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u304	It's from the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u305	That's the answer. Please, Mr. Senator Blackbay and Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the hall: Florek.]] Yes, Senator Florek, I'm sorry. [[Who's first?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If the Minister doesn't have it, I can drop it off right now. I'm talking about our Legal Bureau's opinion. Speaking of mutual trust, giving the Minister the utmost confidence, I would like the Minister to answer the following question. Minister, on page 34 of the opinion provided by the Legislative Office, there are 4 points indicating... I can, Minister, because the Minister doesn't have it in front of him... [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Ask, Senator. I know the story.]] It's pretty long. There are four points here, four cases that our legislators raise as constitutional doubts. Maybe I'll ask the question, and in the meantime, the Minister will look through the materials and then answer me if possible. I am referring to your position in this regard. I don't mean seven or eight... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I will answer the question briefly.]] [[Gentlemen, you're disturbing yourselves.]] Well, wait... [[Is Senator Blackbay asking a question? Please.]] Wait a minute. I'm just gonna count it. Okay? One, two, three, four, five... [[Mr. Senator, you had to prepare for the question. You've had a lot of time. Stop asking questions.]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm not... [[You have a minute for this.]] I'm not that smart, but I'd like to ask... I ask for the Minister's opinion up to 4 points in which our Legislative Office questions the constitutionality of the Supreme Court Act. That's the question, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u307	You guys are joking, really. And here are some serious topics discussed. [[Voice from the room: Very serious, Mrs. Marshal.]] Exactly. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] You're welcome, Senator Florek. [[This isn't a joke, Mrs. Marshal. This isn't a joke, this is serious. If your marshal wishes, we can ask these questions to the Minister tomorrow morning.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u308	Now, Mrs. Marshal, one second, I'm just gonna wipe my glasses. I'm so tired, my eyes evaporate after all these hours. A question for the Minister. Minister, we are all convinced that the Sejm, and then the Senate, will elect all the judges of the Supreme Court, that they will be healthy and properly chosen. I mean, the PiS is gonna pick them because we're definitely not gonna have anything to say here. I have a question for you. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 51 §2 is the provision that the judge may, at his request, be granted a paid leave for the treatment of health. If it had just happened that a judge elected by you wouldn't have been well enough, he might have been given a leave of absence. Holidays for health reasons shall not exceed 6 months. My question. How many times is the first President of the Supreme Court six years old, and the leave may last 6 months Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u309	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Please, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u310	Minister, as a failure of our judicial system, the issue of chronicity is very often raised. In your opinion, are those who say that, after the introduction of another remedy, waiting for a final decision can be prolonged in individual cases? I don't have a reason... Maybe that'll be the next question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u311	Mr. Senator, please ask... [[It's been a minute.]] [[I'd exceed a minute, Mrs. Marshal. That's against the rules.]] Come on, you guys are really kidding me. [[Voice from the hall: Game on time.]] Mr. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the number of judges in the Supreme Court. Once the bill has been implemented, it will be, if I count correctly, the number 120. If I'm wrong, correct me. My question is as follows, Minister. If there are problems regarding completion, selection of 110 or 120 judges by the National Courts of Justice, if there is no willingness... What's the legal path? If so, who can delegate judges to the Supreme Court if there are no specified number of 110 or 120 judges?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u313	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u314	I'll answer you collectively. As for the comments of the Legislative Bureau, I talked about this extensively, a few hours at the committee meeting. Let me conclude with such a conclusion that we do not share the reservations, constitutional doubts presented by the Legislative Bureau in any way. As far as the detailed comments of the Legislative Office are concerned, they were all discussed. We do not see the need to amend the law to any extent, i.e. these comments were analysed by our legal services and such reasonable doubts do not exist in our view. As regards the issue of the length of proceedings, the recognition of emergency complaints will also be an element which will discipline all judges of the general courts, because the mere fact that this final judgment may later be subject to review will certainly be appropriate, because of this judic supervision exercised by the Supreme Court, affecting the entire judicial system. This is an extraordinary appeal measure, it does not extend the proceedings concerning the instance run at the first, second instance, and the solutions are such that they will just reinforce certain corrections as regards irregularities that occur today in the system and which will be removed. As far as numbers are concerned, the answer to the senator's question is contained in the bill. The number of judges is at least 120 and the bill is so constructed that, in my opinion, there are no risks associated with its entry into force. I am convinced, and here I am still very determined to convince senators that we should speed up work on this law, a very good law, whose entry into force is expected by Poles, is needed and is part of a broadly understood reform of the justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u315	Thank you very much. Please... Senator Augustine wanted to ask you another question, right? [[Yeah, but if there are no others left.]] [[I didn't get the answer to my question.]] Do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u316	No. I understand that I'm giving answers, and I'm no longer kind of entitled to whether or not someone is satisfied with my answer, to verify... [[How many times can the President of the Supreme Court leave free of charge... leave paid for health problems how many times...]] This regulation is a mapping of the regulations already in place in the system. Practice will resolve this problem. [[Practice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about this possibility of moving sentences back 20 years. Well, in order to be able to judge such a judgment of the court of jurisdiction, there is certainly a need for justification. And what happens if... Have you even examined this situation? Because I have such information that it will be simply impossible to obtain such justification in very many cases, because this is a distant period, not always the court was obliged to draw up this justification in writing or it is no longer physically. What's going on in these cases? What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u319	Are there any more questions for the Minister? They're still here, aren't they? Good. There you go, Senator Slugocki and Senator Komarnicki. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[No, Blackbeard.]] I'm sorry, not Slugocki, but Czarnobaj, Senator Czarnobaj. I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: It's because of this resemblance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, a question about this number of judges. I understand that the Minister has long and profoundly presented all these problems at the committee meeting, but here is the plenary debate. Not everyone had the time and opportunity to attend this committee meeting... [[We're not all on the committee.]] ...and we're not all on this committee. That is why there is a plenary debate so that we can ask the Minister questions. Maybe that question is repeated, it was asked at the committee meeting, and I know it's late, but I have to ask that question. Minister, in accordance with this bill, is there no possibility for the Minister of Justice to co-opt judges to the Supreme Court in any way?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u321	Senator Slugocki, right? No, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator... [[I'm glad you think of me.]] Komarnicki. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Your marshal, I see, has seen one senator. My name is Władysław Komarnicki.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Senator, of course. [[Voices from the hall: No, no.]] Please. [[I'm just jealous of your marshal, which is why I introduced myself.]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, as an entrepreneur, I have such a habit that if I prepare, I usually ask people who know about it. I had this panel discussion with many practices from three generations. They paid attention to me... [[Voice from the hall: You've lived too long.]] And they pointed out to me that the new content of the article. In fact, you're violating the constitution, which really upset me. For you create the Supreme Court in 2 dimensions. I mean, there will be chambers: civil, criminal, public affairs, emergency and disciplinary control. The Disciplinary Chamber, Minister, is actually becoming the second Supreme Court, and you will admit that this is contrary to the Constitution. [[And a question.]] The Constitution is almost over. He only speaks of one Supreme Court. As a result, you are laying the foundation within the Disciplinary Chamber for the creation of an independent Supreme Court... [[Mr. Senator, this is a comment.]] ...and the President of the Disciplinary Chamber will be independent of the first President of the Supreme Court in his full scope. [[You can make this comment in the discussion.]] Is that true? [[Is that consistent with the constitution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u323	Good. Please answer these questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u324	As regards matters relating to the justification of judgments, it is a provision of competence which gives the Supreme Court, in such a case where no justification has been drawn up, the possibility of requesting that justification. And if there is such a situation that there would be a need to reproduce the act, then there are legal institutions in the relevant civil proceedings. Of course, in the vast majority of cases, the justification for the judgment is available. As far as issues relating to the possibility of sending judges are concerned, I will say that anyone who has gone through the trouble of reading the bill will find the answer. There is such a possibility in the Act to delegate judges to the Supreme Court. This is directly from the bill. I'm sure you senators know the bill very well, so I won't repeat these circumstances. As far as Senator Komarnicki's question is concerned, I have just answered Senator Czarnobaj's question. I'm sorry you guys didn't listen to each other's answers, but I pointed out that we have no constitutional doubts. So, to the question is this true?I answer: no, it is not true, in our view there are no constitutional objections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-12-13-senat-52-2.u325	Thank you very much. [[I'll be happy then. He'll come out in the laundry, Minister.]] Thank you very much. Your Senate, I understand that there are still questions for the Minister, and there will probably be a lot more questions for him. Right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[But we can save it for tomorrow.]] Good. In that case, I'm announcing a recess by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I am glad, gentlemen of the Senators, that you are serious about the issue of reform. Thank you very much, Marshal, I bow.]] Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 23 minutes 58]]
