ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Marcin Duszek. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Marcin Duszek will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Małgorzata Golińska. I consider the minutes of the 32nd and 33rd Sejm meetings to be accepted against the non-disclaimer. High Seym! [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 19 January this year. tragically, Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, PhD in Economics, academic teacher, MP at the 8th Sejm, member of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the government bill amending the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families (print No 1105), - Report by the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2015 (Print No 707), together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social and Family Policy (Print No 800). At the 33rd meeting, the Sejm did not vote: - on the application for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act (Print No 984), - to object to the acceptance of the information of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development from the implementation of the programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the period 2015-2019 for the period from 18 November 2015 to 17 November 2016 (print No 1077). Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws amending the laws: - Penal Code and some other laws, - to prevent pollution by ships and certain other laws. The designs are 1186 and 1194 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers also submitted draft laws: - amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws, - amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims, - amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodship and government administration in the voivodship, - amending the Law on the System of General Courts, - the National Agricultural Support Centre, - Provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, - about investments in the construction of a waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. The designs are 1883, 1185, 1195, 1181, 1216, 1217 and 1182 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on Patent Advocates. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the draft laws amending the laws: - cooperative savings and credit banks, - the combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression, - Penal Code and some other laws. The reports shall be printed in No 1191, 1203 and 1189 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and the 80th anniversary of his death. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. A group of Members submitted a proposal for the election of a member of the Court of State. The application is print number 1179. The opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights is print No 1190. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen in a joint discussion of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the first readings of the draft laws on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's report on the draft resolution on commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian. In addition, the Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the actions to which the government is required and to present the planned plans to address the problem of smog, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Senior policy - h.m. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 11, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health - hour. 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 13, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Public Health and Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Dialogue and Social Communication - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 18. And it's been canceled from the hour. 18th meeting of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Bolesław Lesmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and on the 80th anniversary of his death (prints Nos 1101 and 1187). I ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a draft resolution to you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] concerning Celebrations 140th birthday anniversary and 80th anniversary of Bolesław Leśmian's death. This is very important in spite of appearances and I would very much like you to listen to what I want to say. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Culture, as we all know, is extraterritorial, it is a field of freedom, it is a zone of freedom, it is a democratic zone of freedom. It welcomes the fact that, after the incomprehensible decision made by the Senators of Law and Justice, the Sejm Committee of Culture, also with the votes of PiS Members, decided to adhere to the Modern Project and commemorate Bolesław Leśmian. Bolesław Leśmian is one of the biggest Polish poets we should put in line with Kochanowski, Mickiewicz, Miłosz, Szymborska or Różewicz. A happy country that has a poet - wrote Czesław Miłosz, reading and analyzing the works of Tadeusz Różewicz. An unfortunate country that forgets its poetry. Let us not forget Polish poetry, let us not forget Bolesława Leśmian. Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, another prominent Polish poet, former member of the ZMP, winner of the Nike Literary Award, decided to dedicate to Leśmian an outstanding book, excellent - encyclopedia. I'm a lesbian. Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz is also the author of another encyclopedia: The Encyclopedia. Slovak, which is one of the most important books that have been written about this outstanding Polish poet and playwright. Read also Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, I strongly urge you to do so. Back to Lesmian, Rymkiewicz in the Encyclopedia. He writes: Leśmian tells us some amazing and unusual things about our local and local lives, and, moreover, he tells them not only wisely, but also in a masterful, surprising way. I think it is worth emphasizing the power of the poetic reflection of Leśmian. He was, as few as anyone in Polish literature of the Young Poland period, the writer, the poet, the creator of dramas, who, regardless of different political and social contexts, believed in the power of the word. Polish was his territory, his republic. Leśmian himself in one of his works was so characterized: an incorrect existential, a poet, an expert of mist and wine, an eternity of singing, a bouncy manoeuvring dream. I think that this part of the text of Leśmian is also proof of the strength of this Polish language, the strength of the Polish language, and it is worth remembering that his work began in Russian. He came from a Jewish family, which is also very important, and became a master of Polish. Like his philosophical patrons, Bergson and Nietzsche, Bolesław Leśmian believed that every thing, every phenomenon or object exists in the continuous course of becoming. The contemporary works of Leśmian seemed to be a late echo of Young Poland, which is why they mostly silenced it. The Skamandrits actually rejected Lesmian's work in its entirety. They did not see its novelty and originality, which in time contributed to the recognition of Leśmian as the greatest poet of their time and one of the most important Polish 20th-century poets, whose poetry enjoys the interest of both literary researchers and readers. Bolesław Leśmian's creative achievements make us believe in the democratic role of literature, abolishing even the most expressive political and cultural divisions. I hope that this time also the power of his poetry will allow us to decide together to honor the memory of the author of the Forest and Raspberry Chruśniak. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Paraphrasing the famous saying, Aristotle's famous thought: poetry eases customs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u5	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's rainbow orchards and blizzards -- Get out of the way! - Here comes the poet - the blue wipe! What's wrong with the world - back and on the knives! Attention! - There's nothing he can do to protect himself from that! The sun - in the cave, far - in the window, in the dawn - in the well, and especially Any wonders from behind the jars - the law of sleep is appropriate. Poet, Bolesław Leśmian. A poet whose commemoration of a special resolution of the Sejm is, of all means, justified, needed and expected. Expected, because after the Senate did not choose Bolesław Leśmian as the patron of 2017 and made another choice, the artistic environments, media associated with the opposition read, recite, print Lesmian and texts about Leśmian into power, thinking that they are doing so in spite of the Law and Justice. Read, dear lemmings, Leśmiana, read the "Luck," read the "Polish Klechdy" by the power. It's gonna be really good for everyone. Isn't the better outcome of the political struggle we can expect? Read the most outstanding - as Mr.Mieszkowski said - next to Kochanowski, Mickiewicz and the Slovak Polish poet. Unfortunately, there were no members of the Civic Platform at the meeting of the cultural committee that dealt with this draft resolution. Maybe that's why this resolution has been drafted. There was only one decent exception: Mr Bogusław Sonik honored the committee meeting with his presence. Apparently Bolesław Leśmian is not such an important creator for this part of the opposition. It is the master of the word, the master who chose the Polish language and Polish culture, tradition and myths as his creation space, and from this space he made a work, which is a masterpiece of the use of the language, mastery of building metaphysics, mastery of drawing from the Polish tradition, Polish folk mythology, Polish values. As the editor and publisher of his works - the most outstanding - wrote by Prof. Jacek Trznadel, Leśmian came from a socialized or Polishized Jewish intelligence derived from a fairly rich or rich urban layer: the industrialists of the mother and the booksellers of the father. They were not isolated from Polish backgrounds, but Leśmian in his early youth, in his studies in Kiev, began writing in Russian. In fact, he could have been some kind of Mandelsztama, he had the talent of that measure. He chose Polishness. He is a great poet of the mystery of existence, as Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, the author of the Encyclopedia, speaks of him. Leśmian, a unique book of its kind [[♪ The bell ♪]] about this great creator. Leśmian has been dead for 80 years, but he has worthy and great continuers, so that as you read the "Luck" or "Raspberry Chruśniak," look also at the "Sunset" in Milanówek. Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz is at the moment the greatest follower of Lesmian poetry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u7	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u8	Law and Justice supports this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u9	Thank you. And please take the floor of Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and the 80th anniversary of his death. Bolesław Leśmian was born in Warsaw, in an intelligent family of Jewish origin. Classic high school and law school at the university. St. Vladimira graduated from Kiev. There he took a very active part in the artistic life of the Polish community, and youth spent in Ukraine influenced his work to a large extent. He debuts in 1895 with a poem of Sextyna, where he signs himself as Lesman, but since 1897 his poems have been signed with a polish name, Leśmian. In 1901, he arrives in Warsaw, but still remains on an artistic journey through Germany and France. In 1911 he co-founded an innovative Artistic Theatre in Warsaw. Leśmian considered poetry to be a kind of primal speech: the poet feels, recognizes and expresses the world, as the original man once did. He was fascinated by the thought of that era when the language was created and the reaction to reality was first and only. Leśmian wrote his poems in a way that every time he invented a new language. The poet considered the rhythm to be the most important feature of the poet's speech, as it reflects the rhythm of the world, and it positively affects the reader. In his 20's, his work was not yet appreciated. Real interest in Lesmian's poetry began in the early 1930s. He was then awarded a membership of the Polish Academy of Literature. He was called a language genius - he used it very freely. He was a man of great culture, connected old philosophies with contemporary skepticism. Bolesław Leśmian is a wonderful figure considered the most innovative, original and most extreme individuality of the beautiful 20th century literature. He was the creator of a new ballad type, the author of prose fairy tales. Polish genius was posthumously seen in it. The year 2017 is the 140th anniversary of the birthday and 80th anniversary of the death of Leśmian. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club commends the work of the poet and will vote in favour of the resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, read Leśmian, but read with understanding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u11	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the 140th anniversary of my birth and 80th anniversary of Bolesław Leśmian's death in 2017 I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the resolution commemorating Bolesław Leśmian. Virtuos words - yes [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Very often we talk about Leśmian, a poet placed on an equal footing with Kochanowski, Mickiewicz or Słowacki. His work is so rich that until today it is still not a completely discovered land for the next generations of Poles, especially since his poetry did not fit into the main trends of the interwar period and he was on the sidelines of the literary world. This is a time when a poet learns Bergson's or Nietzsche's philosophy many times later as an inspiration for his work. His extremely vivid language, his extraordinary imagination, surprising metaphors or neologists, drew much from symbolism, but also from romanticism. Ballady presented in a modern way, using irony, paradoxes. He is the author of beautiful erotics, metaphysical poetry, in which he discussed art, nature, man. Leśmian was also the author of beautiful fairy tales for adults and children with oriental themes published in 1913 under the title "Sesame Klechdy." In 1933, he became a member of the Polish Academy of Literature. At the end of his life, Leśmian built in his poem a figure of Mr Błyszczyński, who created his own garden - a beautiful place rich in vegetation, a magical place, a place of dialogue with God. That is what Leśmian's poetry, which he has been creating throughout his life - an extremely rich, nature-like poetry that is present in his work. He took care of her and developed her all his life. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports the commemoration of Bolesław Leśmian's outstanding poet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u13	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we talk about Bolesława Leśmian, I would like to stress once again that it was a rejected poet. They didn't want Leśmian, they didn't want to read it. I think this is also an important and interesting reflection when we think about this work, about art, which becomes a margin in democracy, e.g. When democracy rejects this art. Bolesław Leśmian was the best proof of how can a man who did in a Polish word, who was a worker of the word, and at the same time an aristocrat of the word, created a space that actually amazes everyone - from PiS to non-PiS, to Modern, so this is some space where we can connect... But I would like to say one more important thing to you, because Bolesław Leśmian was an insubordinate creator in the sense that he could be a rebel. He liked women. He lived in two families at the same time. These families couldn't really communicate with each other. But he loved these women, he accepted these women, they also accepted the situation in which they were in. Bolesław Leśmian was also an official who at one point was accused of embezzling money. It turned out that one of his subordinates had done this wicked deed. As for the artist's placement in the area of democracy, I would like to read to you what I wrote to the Election Gazeta, who asked me to do what was described as a decal of freedom. In this case, the conversation is about the decal of art or the decal of culture. Well, democracy needs art - provocative art - to make sure that they are the basis of societies based on the idea of freedom. Alexis de Tocqueville urges that democratic governments can harm freedom. When democracies want to impose the will of the majority on the general public, they can repress and silence the voices of enemies of conformism. The ruling majority can suppress unpopular forms of expression and often choose to do so, and then democratic societies become clearly enslaved. Democratic states need artists who challenge the tastes of the ruling majority. By resisting the power of the majority, the creators help to liberate themselves to society. Art is a form of freedom struggle. Art without democracy is possible, democracy without art - no. Well, if Leśmian had been among us today, he would have been a believer in such thinking. I'm sure he's also his inner freedom, his determination to look for his own style, his own word, his own identity, because he was a poet who struggled with his identity all the time... This is an extraordinary character we should be celebrating. Of course, the modern one who reported this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, he asks for the support of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u15	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position on honoring the memory of Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birthday and the 80th anniversary of his death. On 22 January we celebrated the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Leśmian's birth; on 2017 we also celebrated the 80th anniversary of his death. He was an outstanding poet, proselytist, playwright, literary critic. Of course, he came from a Jewish family. His works symbolize one of the most original phenomena of Polish 20th-century literature. He started his work in Russian, but later he chose Polish. The peak period of literary activity of Bolesław Leśmian falls on the interwar twentieth anniversary. Then the poetic volumes of "Ląka," "Shady drink" or "forest plot," which are richly derived from the tradition of Baroque, Romanticism and Young Poland appear. Bolesław Leśmian, like Jan Kochanowski, Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki, refers to folk and religious traditions, and his rich works and poetic imaginations find an outlet in rich vocabulary. The Club of the Polish People's Party supports the adoption of a resolution on the celebration of the 140th anniversary of the birthday and the 80th anniversary of the death of this outstanding Polish creator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u17	Thank you, sir. And Mr Jack Protasiewicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u18	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs Lichocka wanted to finish hers. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In other words, an interesting speech to call for lemmings to read Lesmian. [[I don't have to call, they're already reading. They're already reading.]] I wouldn't worry about lemmings, Mrs Lemmings. I'm sure they know and read this poetry. I would rather ask the Member to ask the Senators of the PiS to read Lesmian with understanding. [[They're reading. Don't worry.]] At least one verse or one row Let us give the Leśmiana to the PiS senators to understand that the decision which they made last year, about not making 2017 Bolesław Leśmian, was a decision simply unwise - so gently in parliamentary language the name - not only because this year is in a certain sense unique, given precisely this poet, because this year is a double round anniversary, both the 140th anniversary and the 80th anniversary of death, but above all because we are dealing with a figure, which is much to say here, extraordinary, when it comes to the history of Polish literature. Many words have already been said about Leśmian before, but I will only quote this opinion, which is very interesting to me as a Polish man. Aleksander Wat spoke of Leśmian like this: When Leśmian came from his province, Tuwim kissed his hand. This accurately illustrates the importance and significance of this poet and his poetry. The resolution, which is currently the subject of our debate, brings together Leśmian with Jan Kochanowski, Adam Mickiewicz and Juliusz Słowacki because of drawing from the rich folk tradition and folk religion, but in fact, dear country, Leśmian was one of those poets who conducted Polish literature to modernity - just like Bruno Schulz, Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz, Witold Gombrowicz. This originality especially by the Polish parliament should be appreciated because it was an artist who enriched Polish language, not only carried out Polish literature to modernity, but also enriched Polish language, not only creating new words, but as if creating things that he first called them. Therefore, it is undoubtedly a person who deserves to be respected by the Polish Parliament. It is good that the Lower House, the Sejm, corrects the unwise decision of the Upper House, the Senate. About the European Union of Democrats will be eight hands in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u19	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the memory of Bolesław Lesmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and on the 80th anniversary of his death. Bolesław Leśmian is undoubtedly one of the outstanding Polish poets and literary critics. His work had a huge impact on Polish literature. Leśmian, who formed in the interwar 20th anniversary, does not take up historical threads, but in a perfect way refers to the Polish traditional literature of the Baroque, Romantic and Young Poland period. In his works we can find references to mysticism, love of nature and God. Leśmian created unique, multidimensional poetry, full of symbolism and philosophical appeal. In Bolesław Leśmian's work we can find existential issues, relations between nature and man, and between individuals and collectiveity. Finally, it has to be emphasized that he was the creator of an exceptional means of expression, neologism, in which nobody in Poland could match it. The value of Bolesław Leśmian's work and his positive influence on our national literature are undisputed. The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the adoption of a resolution to commemorate the author of the most original artistic phenomena of Polish literature in the 20th century. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u21	Thank you very much, Member. Two parliamentarians joined the questions. If there are no more people willing to ask the question, I close the list. Question time - 2 minutes. Please, as the first question... [[Excuse me, Marshal. Sign me up.]] Yet, Mr Mieszkowski, good. And the question is asked first by Mr Tomasz Lenz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I welcome the fact that the Lower House of Parliament, the Polish Sejm, will, however, adopt a resolution in connection with the 140th anniversary of Bolesław Leśmian's birth and the 80th anniversary of his death. I am very pleased that we are fixing the Senate's error, and I ask Mrs Lichocka to remain calm. I wouldn't involve Boleslaw Leśmian in current politics, he wouldn't want that. [[Definitely not.]] And that concludes the exchange of views on this matter. [[I wish you'd been to committee meetings.]] I am speaking because I could not deny myself the pleasure of reading the poem of my favorite poet, Madam - yes, on the side of the Platform we are also interested in poetry, not only you. This poem shows that Bolesław Leśmian is not only erotic - probably some of the parliamentarians associate Bolesław Leśmian only with the school reading in Raspberry Chruśniaku and associate his poetry only with that poem she met at school, and this is a poet who created various poetry. And for PiS Members, I have a poem that I would like to read, which is definitely worth remembering: God, full of glory in heaven, And on the cross, they were lost. He's been hiding somewhere and going somewhere. That I've never seen you before? I know that from my pitfalls Your power will not leave me! Whether-So together we stand bravely, Or each of us separately. Tell me what you're doing in this hour, When does my soul die? Do you shed a tear in secret, Or are you going to die with me? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u23	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Eve Tomaszewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Appreciating the extremely unusual originality of Lesmian's work, I would like to ask whether the reasons for the negative position of the senators in this matter were known. Namely, there are some substantive reasons, sometimes there are formal reasons. I don't know what it looks like in the Senate, but for example. In the Mazowieckie Seym there is a limited number of people who can be honored in such a way that one year is devoted to their person, their works or activities. Perhaps there was a similar reason here. I'd like to know if that's possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u25	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Because I spoke to the senators, it seems to me - I'm not sure - that just Bolesław Leśmian's work at some point turned out to be illegal, incompatible with your thinking... [[That's not true.]] ...in the Senate, of course. And that's absurd. But using the opportunity and knowing how important this artist is for Polish artistic awareness, poetic consciousness, following my predecessor's footsteps, I will read another text. It is rare to hear such important words spoken by poets from the speaker. We in the Seym don't like them, sometimes we marginalize them. This poem is very important, it is known to you, but it is also a conversation about how difficult it is for people who are disabled who live in this social space with their various weaknesses. This poem is titled "Garbus. " A hunchback sleeps quite favorably: In the weather and the woman's summer. The garlands of life were real. And death is a hunchback. He sleeps on the way, in the mist of rendition, As if a fairy tale is difficult to decide, And he's done nothing in this life, Only the hump carried and carried. With this hump he begged and danced, With this hump he was proud and swarming, He was babysitting him to sleep on his back, He fed and drank his own blood. And now the death of its own treasure, In her darkness has already lengthened her neck, Only the hump still humps, The corner is alive and fat. He survived his camel. By the equal of his carcass a moment, The dead man watches the darkness, And he's the one with the butterflies in the sun. And to the dead crane He says, threatening his log: What does your stubbornness mean? That you put a septum across me? Did you lose your knees in the fog? ♪ You're dreaming ♪ Did he smash his legs? Why did he take me on a ram? To lose the way halfway? Why are you stuck in the shadows? I can hardly fit in your bars! Curious, eternal lazy, Where else are you gonna carry me? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u27	Thank you, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Joan Lichock. You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u28	I very briefly wanted to correct the false information that you have provided, which can also be read in the media... [[That's the answer.]] ...related to the opposition. It is not true that the Senators of Law and Justice do not value Lesmian's poetry or that it is uncomfortable for them, on the contrary - Leśmian is a poet who connects and draws, as we have all said here, from the wealth of Polish culture, Polish identity, Polish language. There's no reason to underestimate him. The Senate has chosen another patron of 2017 and only because, for formal reasons, the restrictions laid down by the Rules of Procedure, it has not become Leśmian patron of 2017. But if you would very much like, we can still think about it, because after changing the rules of procedure there is a possibility in the Sejm to adopt another patron of 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can think about this if you continue to support this desire, whether Bolesław Leśmian should be the patron of 2017 or whether it would be wise to think, for example. about Ignacy Mościcki, because it's the 150th anniversary of his birthday or another patronage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u29	Thank you, Madam President, because this is already beyond the wording of the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u30	I wanted to correct that false information. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But this is not a corrigendum, it is your statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u31	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. [[It's an irregular correction. It's against the rules.]] We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks (prints Nos 1144 and 1191). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks from print No. 1144 was the subject of the work of the Public Finance Commission on 11 January this year, when the first reading of the project took place. The aim of the project is to align the provisions of the current SKOK Act with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 31 July 2015, which ruled that Article. The 60th SKOK Act of 5 November 2009 is incompatible with the Constitution because it does not differentiate between supervisory and corrective measures applied by the Financial Supervision Commission depending on the size of the cash register, i.e. in relation to large and small cash registers. Small cash registers operate to a lesser extent, on a smaller scale, less complicated and therefore poses less risk to themselves and to depositaries, to the members of the cash registers. The draft amendment introduces the definition of a small cooperative credit and savings bank, as well as the criteria, the conditions under which the money loses its status as a small cash register in which circumstances it loses it. The criterion for considering the cash register as small was the sum of the balance sheet assets at the end of the financial year, which must not exceed PLN 20 million, and the average annual number of members in the last financial year must not exceed PLN 10 000. persons. It also introduces the obligation to provide KNF with information on the fulfilment of the conditions and the loss of the status of the small cash register also for the planned next financial year. At the same time, the project prohibits the spending of electronic money by small money. A discussion took place during the committee meeting. Two applications were submitted for rejection which were not supported by the committee. The critical voices addressed to the project concerned the limitation of supervision by KNF of small cash registers, the criteria for recognising the cash register as small, mainly the number of members, the lack of ties. There were also suggestions that KNF was receiving control of the SKOKs, as well as comparing the situation of small banks in this respect to the situation of cooperative banks which are subject to greater rigor. It was also stressed that cashiers did not meet solvency standards at a level such as cooperative banks. And as usual, the opposition stressed the issue of insufficient public consultation. It follows from the justification of the draft law that the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission over small cash registers will continue to be exercised. KNF will be able to carry out an analysis of the results of the audit activities carried out by the National SKOK Casa pursuant to Article. 63 Laws, methodical control concerning the rules for carrying out checks by the National Bank on the effectiveness and adequacy of their activities. There are also provisions in force that show that KNF control over small cash registers is not restricted, for example. Article 2 73 and other provisions of existing laws, which say e.g. about the possibility of introducing the commission board in cash registers. According to information from the Financial Supervision Commission, the amendment will now apply to nine banks with the largest balance sheet assets of PLN 18 million and about 2 000. members, i.e. as a result much smaller than the criteria adopted in the draft law. All these cash registers, which will cover the project, have a solvency ratio of 6,9 to 16,1, i.e. at a good level, so they are safe cash registers and, moreover, comparing them to cooperative banks in terms of capital adequacy, is not justified because cooperative banks are covered by CRD IV and SKOK-i have been excluded. In the course of the work, six amendments were tabled, which appeared in the project, among others. an amendment abolishing restrictions for cash registers on credit activities. These restrictions concerned credit activities only up to 3 years and for housing purposes up to 5 years in terms of the duration of lending. As a result of this amendment, these provisions have been eliminated, i.e. there are no such restrictions imposed on the cashiers proposed by the applicants. The aim was not to reduce the competitive capacity of these small banks above all, and besides the scale of their activities is not large enough to cause some turmoil in the financial market in Poland. We said it was nine cashiers, they're in good financial condition. The amendment made during the first reading also concerned the removal of changes excluding small cash from the possibility of entrusting intermediaries to businesses, including foreign entrepreneurs, in concluding contracts and changes concerning activities such as financial settlements or the conclusion of contracts, e.g. relating to insurance. In the light of the adoption of this amendment, such a right will still have small amounts of money. Another amendment clarified the provisions so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs. the financial institutions have adapted the statutory delegation concerning the scope and frequency of the cash register reports to the degree of complexity of their activities. But this does not only apply to reporting, but also to accounting rules, which the Minister's decision to do. financial institutions will be simplified for small cashiers. This right, or rather that obligation, is left for a period of 12 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. So when it comes to reporting or when it comes to simplifying accounting rules, the current rules are to apply for up to 12 months. Some provisions have also been introduced concerning the relationship between the cashier and the financial spokesman and the Ombudsman. insurance. The point is to determine precisely when the money can provide certain documents or data about its members without compromising professional secrecy. The fees for the Ombudsman's institution have also been reduced. As the turnover of the cash registers is negligible, their amount is limited to 0,0011% the amount of assets. The main article requested by the Constitutional Tribunal was Article. 60 talking about KNF supervision based on the SKOK Act. The same article. 60 was simply supplemented by a provision which says that supervision is to be appropriate to the complexity of the cashier's activities and the extent of the risks involved in the activity. There is a matching of not only supervisory measures but also remedies to which the Financial Supervision Commission is empowered to implement. The KNF's activities are based on the principle of proportionality, i.e. the use of milder measures, if there is no need for further measures. All six amendments tabled were accepted by the committee and, taking into account some of the legislative comments, 25 members of the committee supported the proposed solutions, three votes against, zero abstentions, and the draft was adopted by the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u33	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to stress that members of the Law and Justice Club support the amendments made to the law on cooperative savings and credit unions. We take this as a first step in improving the law on the functioning of the SKOK. We want to implement strongly the Constitutional Court's judgment and both through the provisions that have been adopted and tabled in the draft and through the amendments we want to give a chance for the existence and development of small banks as well, rather than killing them, as has been the case so far because of aversion or political prejudice. We are convinced that cooperative savings and credit banks in Poland, which account for only 1% the financial market is a permanent and essential element of the financial market. In this respect, the 20-year operating period of the cash registers did not bring losses to the members of the cash registers except for the recent turbulence since the previous coalition began to repair cooperative savings and credit banks. They also had very good experiences in the interwar period. But also other countries, European countries more developed than us, with a more developed financial market also attach great importance to the functioning of the cooperative banking element or segment in their economies, treating them very protectively as a very important element, which must complement commercial banking - large banks, large banking entities, because it simply meets the needs of parts of society, and also meets various economic tasks with good results. It is therefore desirable to determine the status of the small cashier and to create these cashiers in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the more lenient conditions of operation which they deserve. As I mentioned, this is the first step in amending the law that should take place in order to strengthen the SKOK sector in Poland, so that it fulfils the conditions of economy to comply with, respects the law to fulfil its obligations, right, and also so that deposits lodged there are safe. The proposed law also provides when the cashier loses the status of a small cashier - when the limit set in the criteria for its recognition is simply exceeded by at least 10% and when it does not meet these conditions or criteria for the next 2 financial years. In such situations, the cashier will have a statutory obligation to inform the Financial Supervision Authority that it fulfils the current conditions or does not meet them that it does not plan to meet them or plans to do so in the next financial year, until the last day of the month following the end of the financial year. The Financial Supervision Commission will also be able to reach out to the National Cashier: on the results of checks carried out in cash registers, cooperative savings and credit banks by the National Cashier itself. We therefore believe that this is, on the one hand, a relaxation of duties for these cashiers. We assume that imposing excessive burdens, excessive obligations on small money does not help in their operation, and that it can harm them, it can simply lead to bankruptcy, and that is not what we mean. We want to strengthen the SKOK sector in our economy, in our financial market, and that is what we differ from many of our predecessors, who, as I remember perfectly well, have been hitting the SKOKs very hard since the parliamentary term of the Sejm 2005 and 2007 at every opportunity. If anyone were interested in what it looked like, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would encourage Members of this House to examine the speeches made by Members of the Civic Platform in the finance committee, starting in 2005, in 2007 and in the following years. We can figure out exactly what's going on...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u35	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u36	...what their position was, what their purpose was. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Small is beautiful, Gabrielle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u37	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have no doubt, Madam President, that soon we will all be held liable for criminal punishment. We count on it, but we're not afraid. [[I didn't say anything like that. It's your surface.]] High Seym! Solvency ratio of the SKOK sector at the end of September 2016, although presented at 3,55% , then taking into account the results of supervision, its value should be -0.67%. The value of some funds should be significantly reduced and their total value in the sector presented at a level not higher than -65 million PLN. According to estimates, corrections should be made at least PLN 425 million. The figures quoted are not an expression of resentment towards the SKOKs, but quotes from the report of the Financial Supervision Authority a few weeks ago. What does that mean? It means that the whole sector operates on negative own funds. What exactly does that mean? That the money of all the new members of the SKOKs is only used to fill a hole, and if that money is not enough, then there is a stream of funds from the Banking Guarantee Fund, because the SKOKs are the biggest beneficiary of the BFG, although they do not pay much to it. And in this situation of the SKOK sector - you will admit, Mr, not the best - the Members of the Law and Justice want the supervision of the JCCs, all the JCCs... [[Not all of them...]] ...used milder measures. It's a quote from the justification for the bill. Smoother measures are quite a specific provision in general. And this, as you have been gracious to say, is only the first step in healing the situation in the SKOKs. In the original version of the project, you wanted to make sure that there was no KNF at all, only that the National Money was supervised by small cashiers. Déja vu? Indeed, we have been through this several years ago, and today the National Money is in a much worse situation, actually it can be said: it barely zips. He's got a repair program he's not doing. What does he do? He's on trial with the Financial Supervision Committee. What? The CEO. She lost the trial. According to the Court of First Instance, KNF has sufficiently and fully justified its refusal to approve the President of the National Bank, but, of course, the money does not agree with this judgment. That's the kind of institution you wanted to put in charge of small money? This legislative proposal was based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but the important thesis in this judgment was the diversity of supervisory tools for small and large cash registers. Given the latest KNF report, perhaps we should increase the responsibilities and security in large cash registers, not loosen up what we have in small cash registers. It is certainly necessary to comply with existing legislation and finally to put a protective umbrella not over SKOKs, but over those who are responsible for the difficult situation in SKOKs, over those who have been responsible for a number of frauds documented by the Financial Supervision Commission for many years. I therefore appeal to Members and Senators of Law and Justice that you do not paint grass green, because this will not help the SKOK. Are you sure that you want to take on the burden of responsibility that sooner or later a stream of money from the Polish taxpayer's pocket will have to sail again from the BFG to the SKOKs to guarantee deposits? Mr. Marshal, this project cannot actually be repaired, but the Civic Platform Club would like to civilize it at least a bit, which is why we are making amendments. The Civic Platform is not reluctant to the SKOKs, we want the SKOKs to function, but on a fair, reliable basis, so that they do not deceive their members and do not function at the expense of the Polish taxpayer. Is that a lot? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u39	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Small money's a novelty in our market. I think it is appropriate to set them up, only to ask where and how to find this gold measure and, on the one hand, remove the excess supervisory activities introduced by KNF and, on the other hand, to make sure that the active financial part of the market will be safe and will not, as in recent times, result in the bankruptcy of the smallest cash registers. The proposed level of 20 million assets of the cashier's balance sheet at the end of the financial year is justified by the size of the current smallest cooperative bank. The proposed value could have been justified if it had not been for the level of EUR 1 million enshrined in the Banking Law, for which a cooperative bank could be set up. Let us remember that we should create a law for years, not for a given month, because certain phenomena can be predicted. With these records, a hypothetically small cash register with a total of 15 million assets could be partially excluded from the supervision of KNF and a cooperative bank with a total of 6 million assets will be subject to the same restrictions as the largest banks in Poland, unless the projectors assume that no small cooperative banks will be created anymore, although it would seem a little strange. It would therefore be more justified to propose this amount of EUR 1 million. The euro, and unfortunately not the zloty appears in many other laws, and perhaps it would be worth to finally fasten these currencies and choose one, according to which we will write the paragraphs in the laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u41	Thank you. And Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about a law to bring in the day-to-day and current supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission over a group of entities that long ago have lost social trust, and to transfer to an entity that has even less social trust than the average SKOK, i.e. the National Bank. You want to leave the responsibility of the state, namely taxpayers, the responsibility of citizens through the Bank Guarantee Fund for the payment of compensation in SKOKs, by collecting daily and ongoing supervision of these entities. You say that this law implements the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015, which states that the supervision of cash registers should vary according to the scale of the activity. But the Constitutional Tribunal never said that SKOKs should be excluded from the day-to-day supervision of KNF, but indicated that the type of supervision and the mechanisms adopted should be tailored to the risks taken. Who did the Constitutional Tribunal mean? Well, it's probably small money, but those that operate in accordance with the law on cooperative savings and credit banks, not the entities that care about this law. I would like to remind you that according to the Act SKOK-i should bring together members connected by a professional or organisational bond, e.g. staff employed in one or more workplaces, persons belonging to the same social or professional organisation. Meanwhile, today, the bonds of the members of the cash register are artificial, and you know it. Often the only binding element of the members of the cash register is simply belonging to the cashier. A number of SKOKs have started their commercial activities in principle, appropriate to the activities undertaken by cooperative banks, so they should not be called SKOKs today at all and should not operate on the basis of the SKOK Act. Why does this change give rise to our strong opposition? Mostly, ladies and gentlemen, due to the negligence in the supervision of this entity, to which supervision is to be brought today, i.e. the National Bank; moreover, because of the scams and ambiguities that have appeared for years around the National Bank and which have still brought billions of losses to the Bank Guarantee Fund. I will remind you that seven SKOKs have fallen since 2013 and five have been taken over by the banks. Of course, these were forced acquisitions, which were intended to protect the Polish state from further bankruptcy and subsequent payments from BFG. The total value of bankruptcy and acquisitions concerned more than 500 members and deposits worth PLN 5.7 billion. This is really, ladies and gentlemen, far too much. The collapse of the four largest so far in financial terms of the SKOKs cost Bank Guarantee Fund 4.3 billion PLN. In comparison, Amber Gold, which we are explaining today, suffered five times less losses, because only 800 million PLN. To this day we have no answers to the basic questions and doubts concerning the SKOKs: How did such a difficult situation arise in the SKOKs, and who is responsible for it? Were we dealing with negligence and intentional action against shareholders and the Treasury? Has there been a conflict of interest, influence and benefit between the world of business and politics? Why were the SKOKs supervised so late and was there an impact on the authorities of the State in this regard? Finally, was the transfer of capital from entities forming part of SKOKs to SKOK Holding in Luxembourg legal and was it not a way to escape liability? How much money has gone to the right-wing media related to the Law and Justice environment and whether you are really paying your debts today, because we know well that there are links in financing portals such as in Politics. en, w Gospodarka. en. Similar links exist between the SKOKs and the Network weekly, as well as the Rydzyk father's school and the media operating in this group. And the basic question is, why haven't we set up a committee of inquiry for the SKOKs until today, and set up a committee of inquiry for the Amber Gold case, which was five times smaller? These questions and doubts will be raised even more. You can't name them all today. Unfortunately, we're opening a kind of Pandora's can that we don't know what it's gonna bring. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the coming years, and that will not be our consent, but since the proposal to reject this law at first reading has been rejected by the States, we are giving another opportunity to amend this law a little bit and therefore I am making amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u43	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about amending the law on cooperative savings and credit banks and some other laws, prints no. 1144 and 1191. I would like to say that this project is a classic example of how no new law should be created. The proposal is of course not a government, but a group of members of the governing party, so the non-government project was not subject to inter-ministerial consultations or public consultations. It doesn't include evaluations, opinions, positions. And it is not an exceptional case, unexpected, very urgent to regulate. The draft law was to be in its original version a consequence and implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 31 July 2015, so the government had a relatively long time to prepare its own project with these annexes as well. It was supposed to be like I said, but as a result it is a proposal of numerous amenities introduced for the admired by the PIS SKOKs. The first reading took place not in the plenary room, but at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, and there was a proposal on issues that go far beyond the scope of the project. The introduction of amendments not related to the subject-matter of the project is contrary - this is also emphasised by the Legislative Office - to the procedure of correct legislation and violates the rules of law making. The draft in the basic version proposed amendments only in the Act on SKOKs, aimed at executing the judgment which imposed the obligation to vary the legal supervisory measures of KNF due to the size and extent of their activity. As a result of the work, only Members of the PiS, the proposed project also introduces numerous amendments to the Accounting Act, the Law on the handling of complaints by financial market entities and the Financial Ombudsman, and even the Law on State Aid to Raising Children. In view of the above, even the title of the draft law had to be amended illegally. The substantive changes introduced by the definition of the small cash register and the proposed control system differ significantly from the provisions resulting from the ruling of the tribunal and are even contrary to the general assumptions of the SKOKs. However, the proposed control system for small cash registers raises the main concerns. This audit shall be entrusted to the National Kasa and the supervisory activities of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be limited to the analysis of the results of the audit activities carried out by the National Kasa. Consequently, the Commission for Financial Supervision is deprived of effective supervision and therefore the project is contrary to the ruling of the Court. After all, the Court's judgment provided for a variety of supervisory measures, but not for the exemption of the Financial Supervision Commission from control. The issue is of great concern, all the more so since so far the National Fund has not shown sufficient care in this area and has not yet fulfilled its role. Following the introduction of legal KNF controls in SKOKs and the introduction of deposit guarantees up to 70% the accounts were subject to the obligation to draw up corrective programmes. I will remind you, as a result of such management by the SKOK-i measures in most of the so-called. Small scalers were paid out of the Bank Guarantee Fund about PLN 4.5 billion, while we remember that BFG funds are mainly bank contributions, including small cooperative banks. The proposed draft law almost completely exempts the commission from control activities and leaving the liability for deposits at the same time is simply a wrong and unfair proposal. The fact is that SKOK-i are Polish financial institutions, but those are also cooperative banks: equally Polish and equally small. The purely SKOKs' pampering by the PiS eliminates fair competition in these institutions. Let's add that the fees for BFG are also differentiated. The SKOKs do not regulate the joint and several replenishment of BFG funds after the collapse of some cash register and the payment of deposits. The Act generally weakens the image of SKOKs, and the submission [[♪ The bell ♪]] The responsibility of others is wickedness. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's a terrible assessment. Twice the term "wrong."]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u45	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks. This project concerns the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 31 July 2015, sygn. Act K 41/12. The Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. The 60th Act of 5 July 2009 on cooperative savings and credit banks, in so far as it does not restrict the supervision measures of the Financial Supervision Commission over the activities of small banks, is incompatible with Article. 22 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This means that the Sejm should diversify the legal supervision measures of KNF over SKOKs due to the varying size of the cash registers and the extent of their lending and deposit activities. The applicants proposed a number of key amendments to the law on cooperative savings and credit banks. First of all, the definition of a small cash register was introduced in the dictionary due to the continued use of this concept in the draft law and the need to diversify the legal supervisory measures of KNF due to the varying size of the cash registers and the extent of their lending and deposit activities. The maximum level of the balance sheet total of the cashier was harmonised at a level less than the balance sheet total of the smallest cooperative bank, i.e. PLN 20.28 million. In addition, the provision sets the average annual number of members of the cash register at 10 000. persons. Due to numerous security requirements, the possibility of small electronic money registers being spent has been reduced. Thus, small cash registers were deprived of the possibility to spend electronic money. The prudential approach also reduced the possibility of entrusting a foreign trader or trader with the conclusion and amendment of contracts for the performance of activities and the performance of actual activities by means of an agency agreement. The draft law contains a provision which reflects the purpose of implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the form of limiting the supervision measures of KNF over the activities of small cash registers by indicating that the supervision is carried out according to the complexity of the operations carried out by the cash registers and the extent of the risks involved in the activities of the cash registers. The Polish Bank Association has brought to the project many worthwhile remarks, which increase the safety of running cash registers and minimise the risk of deposit losses by members of credit and savings banks. It has been noted that the assets of PLN 20 million represent quite large volumes and that the average annual number of members of the cash register of PLN 10 000. people are far too high and need to be re-examined. In conclusion, the Association of Polish Banks stated that in a situation in which supervision of selected SKOKs was to be exercised once again by the National Bank and not by a public body, the Financial Supervision Commission, such SKOKs must be excluded from the deposit guarantee system of the Bank Guarantee Fund. The proposed solutions are, in our opinion, insufficient. The reform of this financial sector should go further. It could be, among other things. extend the maturity of outstanding claims to the size of the cooperative banks. SKOK-i is only 1% the market. It should be possible to develop cooperative savings and credit banks, not to reform de facto through the liquidation of the institution, because the provisions proposed in this law, apart from the fact that they are pursuing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, significantly limit the possibility of carrying out and developing the activities of cooperative savings and credit banks. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted for further work while suggesting that the comments submitted, inter alia, should be taken into account in the course of this work. by the Polish Bank Association, which we believe is right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But if there are no corrections, it's like...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u47	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that nine ladies and gentlemen have joined the floor. If there are no more people willing to ask the question, I close the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Michał Jaros. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that between 2013 and 2014 SKOK National Bank and satellite entities were taken out to SKOK Holding in Luxembourg 150 million PLN? 150 million PLN of Polish capital, which left Poland for Luxembourg. Is it true that the SKOK National Fund has been behind in these years and has so far been behind the Bank Guarantee Fund for the amount of PLN 180 million? Is it true that the Bank Guarantee Fund was paying off, paying off the failed SKOKs? I can answer the first, the second, the third question: yes, the truth. Is it true, though, that someone has been held accountable for this? No, no one was held liable for that. [[Not yet.]] I believe that you will all be, especially I am referring, of course, to the Members and Members of the PiS, who are reliable in the assessment of the SKOKs and those who have participated in these activities, that it will be stigmatized, that at the very end it will be in the relevant institutions which will make an appropriate assessment. Public opinion is known to all, but no one has done it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I cordially urge you to do this, because it is irresponsible that what was done with SKOKs in Poland has not yet seen its place, that these people did not have criminal responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u49	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The essence of the novelty of the Act on SKOKs are changes in the supervision of small SKOKs. Indeed, supervision of SKOKs, of financial institutions should be correlated with the degree of risk associated with this activity, the degree of complexity of this activity. I would like to tell you that, even if the capital structure of the SKOKs proves that this level of complexity of activity is very high. I've got this scheme of capital ties with me as part of the SKOKs. This scheme shows that we are dealing with dozens of entities, including entities that are registered outside our country, here I am talking about entities registered in Luxembourg or Cyprus. It is an entity such as SKOK Holding, which plays a very, very important role in this whole structure. Question, Minister: In this situation, if we want to hand over to the National Kasa this oversight, which was exercised by a public trust institution, a public institution, which means that we want the system itself to control itself, shouldn't we deprive these security funds of the BFG? There's no logic in this concept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u51	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: What guarantee do we have that the SKOKs who want to avoid the control of the Financial Supervision Commission, with a sufficient number of members, will not share into small SKOKs so that they do not actually fall under this supervision? This seems very likely because the requirements of the Committee on Banking Supervision are actually quite strict. Therefore, these SKOKs, which are subject to supervision, really need to remain fully transparent, while we fear that these small SKOKs, their funds that will be deposited there, will unfortunately be able to be used for purposes that are not fully in line with the wishes of the shareholders in these SKOKs. Therefore, the question is this: Did you even foresee the possibility that larger SKOKs might be divided in order to avoid the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u53	Thank you. Ma'am Małgorzata Navelek, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal proposes to limit the supervisory measures of the Financial Supervision Commission over the activities of small banks. Only if KNF identifies significant irregularities in a small cashier or if the National Cashier does not carry out their checks or makes their results available to the committee, the committee will be able to assess the financial situation of the cashier, examine its solvency, financial result, etc. I'd like to ask how many small bills will be affected by change. According to the Commission for Financial Supervision, nine banks meet the conditions set out in the draft. The project by the PiS Members may lead to the total exclusion of small cash registers from the control of the Financial Supervision Commission. However, it should be noted that in the Polish financial market there are a large number of cooperative banks, which are even smaller than some banks and cannot count on similar facilities. I would therefore like to ask whether we will be dealing with a breach of the principle of proportionality and why we are strengthening the SKOK-i with more lenient measures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u55	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project applicants state that indirect supervision for small cash registers is envisaged for the Financial Supervision Commission. It has to be said that this is a very vague term. Even the Financial Supervision Commission itself has doubts about this statement. The Commission's supervisory activities will be limited to the analysis of the results of the audit activities carried out by the National Cashier and to the control of the methodology and rules relating to those activities in terms of their efficiency and adequacy, if the National Cashier fails to carry out or transmit the results. These are the laws of this project. My question is: What do the next questionable terms mean, namely the milder measures used here and the second term: significant irregularities? These statements are far from defined, raise many doubts and actually only disrupt the entire control system in the cash registers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u57	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This controversial idea of downloading direct supervision of KNF from some of the cash registers becomes even more controversial if we consider the risks that this project poses. The project states that 2 years after exceeding the parameters indicated for the small cash register, the cash register has the right to continue to benefit from the status of the small cash register and not to be subject to direct supervision. So who will assure Poles that this network of capital links is not going to get bigger in two years, and in fact we are not going to talk about 9 cash and 20 cash? Who will assure Poles that there will be no flows of loans and deposits from cash to cash, and for 2 years, before a given cash register loses the status of a small cash register, can you really in this group of links do a lot? Mr Cymanski, you recommended this proposal. I have a basic question for you: Do you know which funds from this network of links the project you submit and recommend applies exactly? [[These aren't here.]] Can you tell me what kind of money this project is about today? [[These aren't there.]] I don't think you have any idea what you're really asking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u59	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question, or actually two simple questions for the applicant. First: I would like to ask if you have calculations - of course purely hypothetical - how much this law can cost in the worst case us, taxpayers, but also the Bank Guarantee Fund, just now the Bank Guarantee Fund, because 4.3 billion PLN, mentioned by a colleague, are a fact. These are invaluable amounts, because they show that this is the largest legalized financial pyramid - in a sense - in the history of the Third Republic. [[Is that right now?]] It's now. The second question is, do you assume and know how much this could still cost the Bank Guarantee Fund... [[So, what do we do?]] Yes. So all of us taxpayers, bank account owners in all banks? Next question: Do you know how much all SKOKs have spent since the beginning of their existence on the media and is it true that this amount can reach PLN 0.5 billion? If this is not the case, I would very much ask for dementia and information about the actual amount, because it is also horrendous money and it would be good for Poles and all Members to know how much SKOK-i have spent on media activity since the beginning of their existence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u61	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The first question is to the Minister. Why did the Government not take the initiative in this regard despite the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, although the Financial Stability Committee has often discussed the situation on the financial market in relation to the situation in the JCCs? The Minister of Finance therefore has a particular responsibility in this regard. At this point I would also like to point out that the rapporteur has gone far beyond the subject of reporting this project, saying that Members of today's opposition are opponents of the JCC. There were no larger friends for depositaries, depositors of SKOK from Members of the Civic Platform, Polish People's Party, SLD, who accepted the deposit guarantee solution. It cost - this is the measurable amount in money - over PLN 4 million. One more corrigendum. The current SKOKs were only created about 25 years ago, and the real ones, which were founded before the war, turned into cooperative banks. That's what you should know. [[What does it matter?]] Another question for the Minister. What specific solutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be proposed in the Accounting Act? Doesn't the Minister fear that the liquidation of certain loans in small cash registers for a period of between 3 and 5 years, such an extension, will significantly worsen the liquidity situation and thus also cause problems? Mrs Leszczyn spoke on behalf of my club about this solution. I want to sign off on it. These questions are important. The minister who chickened out because he didn't prepare the project takes responsibility for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u63	Ms Tomaszewska will ask you as the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe before I ask a question - I see that some people here don't really know where the money came from - I'll remind you that in the 1980s communist trade unions prevented members from using relief and loan funds in workplaces. After the turn of 1989/1990, it was possible to create such an opportunity for those who had previously not been able to use these cash registers, i.e. the creation of credit and savings banks according to Stefczyk's standards. And that was the reason for the money in the early '90s. My question is: Is it true that these financial problems, and this amount exceeds PLN 3 billion, are the problems of Wołomin created on the basis of the WSI? That's the first question. And two: Do these attacks that we are dealing with not seem to be the result of their competitiveness [[♪ The bell ♪]] To the banks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u65	Thank you, Member. The applicant's representative, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! By proposing this law to the High House in its original version, I had some hopes and had some concerns. While hopes are met to a high degree, concerns have been fully confirmed. My hopes were about this, and are still alive, that as a result of the work of the High House and also the Senate, we will be able to draw up a law that will be good, which will be decent, which will be satisfactorily carrying out what has happened to it, and thus the judgment of the Constitutional Court - that is the essence of the whole thing - a sentence quite interesting, interesting, difficult in fact, concerning perhaps some, taking into account the importance of this subject and the scale of this subject, the margin. I say this not because - because you immediately grab me by the words, very unkind is such manners, and I have been treated very hard here - that I ignore some money. No, no! The powerful Polish banking system obviously has its segments. We hear SKOK-i is 1%. , but this 1% Somewhere by the way - that's the data for today - has nine cash for these little ones. Even people who know about finance ask me that question: how is it possible for the money to have $15 million and for it to live, how can you live with $15 million? And yet there are Such microbes, there's so little money. And that's what this original law is really talking about. She jumped out, went a little further. I get it, I take criticism, I'm open to it. But it doesn't feel good when in this whirlpool... And we're the Seym after the crossings, fresh passageways, we won't miss the opportunity. And there's no need at all for these emotions, which, as you can see, I'm succumbing now, because it's hard not to give up when I hear from a friend who I really respect and sympathize with, a text like, you don't have a clue. Even... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Are you able to show me the money?]] No, I can't. I'm talking about something else. I don't want to lecture, but I think I have to say two words about this tense atmosphere. If I had thought that the Member had no idea, I would never have said it from here. I would say otherwise, I would say: Mrs, I have the impression, maybe I am wrong that you are not fully aware. I'm the one who's supposed to be teaching the kindersztubs? If we talk like that in this Seym... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Kindersztuba...]] ...it's no wonder people are gonna talk so bad about us later. I don't want to... [[They're allowed to do anything.]] ...to open a great discussion here on this subject. Now I look, also with sympathy, at the Member, because the question is how much money they spent... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: corrected.]] ...to me, really, sir, with the best of will, it is difficult to relate to the subject of this law. I understand, and it was inevitable that this project triggered this debate, this discussion and this passion, and these emotions, but I want to say that there are two pillars of criticism. The facts can be shown because there are facts, concrete, there are numbers, there are data. And the second pillar is kindness. Very interesting was the theme of what cooperative banks bind. I am open to discussion, I am not running away from it, I just want to point out that this is really the Court's statement that the SKOK Act, the 2009 Act, to the extent that it does not restrict supervision measures... I'm not clueless enough not to understand that it's a matter of limiting the supervision measures of the committee. The question is whether we are talking about such a limitation if we are transferring this control to the National Bank. Yeah, that's the axis of the whole argument and this discussion. If someone's so smart, why don't you come out and tell them what he'd be proposing here? Because, in fact, as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, very nicely Blaze Parda of Kukiz said here, he probably put it all the more neatly, that on the one hand we must guard like pearls, like pupils of supervision, control and security, and on the other hand we must reduce supervision, i.e. reduce, reduce. What other words are we supposed to use? I went out so primitively and simply proposed to the High House in the bill that this consummation of the court's position should take place in such a way: we are really transferring control from KNF to the National Cashier, the one you are so critical of. Maybe it's not wrong, okay. But, and that's what I want to say very strongly, it's not like the umbilical cord of supervision, control, watching, steering by KNF has been cut. KNF is a powerful institution, and we must protect its seriousness, position and authority. And she's not losing sight of it because the National Money is supposed to control these little... And I'm not saying that to minimize it, I'm watching myself here again, because tomorrow I'm gonna find out that you're mocking taxpayers' money and putting yourself at risk. Please understand me well, that's why I stress it so much. So KNF has an opportunity. Even in the position of KNF - very interesting and very critical, it is true - the Financial Supervision Commission in such a slightly philosophical sentence writes that it would be best to keep it as it is. That's the sentence. In the assessment of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority, the most favourable for the efficiency of the sector would be to leave the Act on SKOKs unchanged. And further: which, however, would not have been sufficient to implement the judgment of the Court. It's very easy to say what's wrong, but it's an art to say what we're proposing here. And in this discussion and in the committee somehow wise men... [[Corrections.]] I admit that I am not such an expert, my fellow Member, and perhaps... I really know what I don't know. I don't know much, I don't know more than I know. But I'm asking you publicly... I'm saying this as an ordinary illustrator - I wasn't outstanding, I didn't have any extraordinary awards, but on a decent level... I would like to say again: I do not agree and, as an applicant, protest against using the wording that we are resigning because these inaccurate, imperfect wordings also in the final version, after taking into account the amendments, give an opportunity, but I will use the word: the introduction of the Financial Supervision Committee, when there was no control, when the results of the audit were not passed or when there were any findings. Very important, interesting sentence of the supervisory committee states: What if the supervisory committee, when assessing the audit material, considers that its vision of the world is different, that its assessment of the facts found is more critical? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, it's important. About terminology. I worked eight years as a illustrator, but a misdemeanor, a minor error, a serious error, a serious error, an irregularity, a gross irregularity, an unacceptable irregularity - we know these tales. You can talk, no one has ever formulated a precise definition, because it is not easy to use appropriate terms. Therefore, here let us define what this means: significant irregularities. I'm very grateful for the vocabulary. It's very easy to criticize, it's harder to propose. I didn't say and I'm not saying, because the whole course of this discussion... Thank you for it, because there have been a lot of valuable comments, fortunately there is still this House, which, unlike us, is called the Chamber of Reflection. Perhaps in the course of the senate work, I look at the Minister, we will be able to improve some things, because there is no negative intention here. I'm talking about the applicants' intentions to really do this. I'm happy for you. We're talking about indirect surveillance. Thank you, Professor Genowef Tokarska, who spoke about indirect supervision. Even if someone says indirect, that is to say, we pass it on to the National Commission, but we leave the possibility. It's not like that. If someone were listening to this debate on the side, they might be impressed - I am really referring to the transcripts - that here we are cutting off: enough supervision by the Financial Supervision Commission over the SKOKs. But let's make a difference. I'm asking you to. But there is one thing that caught my attention, and that's what I want to share at the end, because it woke up my late vigilance. This is where Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska said it. Indeed, if we did, because times are like this, I know whether others, that vigilance and imagination always have a future. It's not until two years later that little money goes into security. It's hard to imagine what it's practically like, but it's gotta be blowing... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There is an amendment.]] ...because the real proposition is that if you jump out of this control rigor and go to high ceilings... Here, too, was the idea: What will happen if they share? Indeed, life teaches that money is the root of evil and money, money everywhere. The law has to take all this into account, and it's hard to get ahead of smart stuff, really. Responsibility, or I want to take it. I'm already taking it because we're responsible for our actions, that's a fact. It was also interesting to talk about the idea of SKOKs, because Stefczyk's, Raiffeisen's, German models and others, here Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Madam President, was talking about whether there was real coherence and connectivity between the SKOKs, consisting only in the fact that they are connected by business and taking credit, whether it is this formula. This can be discussed, but these are extensive, powerful debates about what happened to the SKOKs, about the billions of zlotys. To conclude, I would like to thank you again for the discussion and ask you to do a little bit of battling in words, to be harsh, but not to be cruel, because at times I felt forced, although I try very hard. I have emotions, believe me. Every feeling, anger, even innocence, because let's not be ashamed... Let us be ashamed, but let us not be afraid to admit that it is easy to arouse such hostility. Here I was very moved by certain moments and thought to myself: God, how I am losing patience and self-control, what I am surprised at people who have more temperament than I am. It'll be bad if we debate like this. I'm sorry to point out to my colleagues that they went a little too hard, but as an applicant, thank you very much for the discussion, especially for the critical remarks. I hope that in the course of further work we will be able to work this out, Minister mainly, and to my colleagues, to the Senate to give these comments. They are, we don't underestimate them. [[Accept corrections.]] And the topic of SKOKs in general, all these topics, including how much money for the media: we've really gone a little too far. I do not ignore these comments, but I am sticking to this subject, this scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u67	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska submitted a corrigendum. Member, I hope that the corrigendum will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u68	...correction...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u69	...unruinful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u70	Mr Cymanski, I do not understand why you are accusing me of the lack of parliamentary Kindersztuba and why you were offended because I asked one brief question, in fact very substantive, relating to this network that I have shown. I asked if you knew, as an applicant, because I don't know which... [[I nodded my head that I didn't know.]] It's really hard for me in this thicket to find those SKOKs who will be relieved of supervision. I have asked you only and only the question whether you, as an applicant of this law, know which SKOKs are concerned. You say no, so I think it's a homework to do for all of us, because I'd like to find out, too. Knowing your common sense, I am all the more surprised by this fact, because I appreciate your common sense very much, and in fact you are a member of a ruling team who can look through a cross-party prism. You say it's easy to criticize, it's hard to offer. There are complex amendments, also for two years, including those concerning the risk that you yourself felt that you had not foreseen it in some way. They can be supported because you yourself have admitted that it's hard to get ahead of smart stuff. Some adjustments can be made to reduce the desire to be smart on the part of business. It is therefore worth noting that the majority of Members have spoken, including myself, just about giving up direct supervision, using the very word, and not about the fact that supervision is completely removed. He will be marginalized and the basic charge that I made in my speech is that he will be handed over to an institution to which I personally and many of the citizens of our country have absolutely no trust. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[One more remark. Mr. Marshal, just one word.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u71	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u72	I'm sorry, I don't want to talk too much, because time flies, but I didn't mean it because I gave a clear sign that I don't know. By the way, I thank you for saying that I have sober thinking and reason, because I thought to myself: God, we are talking about money, the largest of which has the capital of 18 million. If we have such a table on capital links... [[Not capital. Balance sheet total. This is different.]] Balance sheet total, yes, yes. Okay, but I had this impression, and I admitted that I didn't know, because I didn't know this table, and I said honestly, and my point was just... I think we'll agree, even now in public, that it's bitchy to say that you have no idea. That's something to avoid, isn't it? Thank you for that understanding. I think that's all I wanted to say, Marshal. [[Mr President, balance sheet total is not capital.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u73	Thank you, too, sir. Thank you. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Very interesting discussion. I would also like us to know the measure of this event, which is the bill. Let me start by saying that we are actually talking about a regulation that is supposed to be so-called. small banks whose balance sheet total does not exceed PLN 20 million and in fact... [[Mr President, listen to your minister.]] But no, the Member has presented so beautifully... [[I'm sorry.]] ...here's the bill that I am only grateful and encourage you to continue the conversation. It doesn't bother me at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like us to know the measure of this event, which is the parliamentary bill. Well, if the assets of the banking sector in Poland amount to more than PLN 1.5 trillion, I would like us to pay due attention to the impact of the various types of regulation which are also complained about by the large financial institutions, the regulations which also stem from European Union law, information obligations which generate costs for the construction of further information systems and reporting obligations. That's what all institutions complain about, no matter the scale. We have here for the first time such a situation that people who tried to exist in the banking system, knowing the benefits of having Polish financial institutions, took the task of rebuilding the banking market in Poland. That's the story of the cash register. After all, first there was a local-scale loan fund, where everyone knew each other, where it was often so that people paid their shares not to borrow, but to help those who needed these loans. I know a lot of people like that -- it still works the same way today -- who deposit shares and don't use loans, right? Maybe they used to, and now they haven't used for years. That's what we're talking about, you can say, marginal to the banking system of the area. I had to do this digression to give you the measure of what we're talking about. The parliamentary proposal, for which I thank you very much, implements the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 31 July 2015 on cooperative savings banks, the ruling which decides that the appropriate degree and responsibilities to be performed by representing a small amount should be granted in respect of the Financial Supervision Committee. To answer the questions that have been addressed to the government, I would like to say that by no means does this bill restore the control of the National Bank as sufficient and only one. In fact, he puts all the money, including small money, under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority. Here, please be calm. That's what Art talks about. 60a: The supervision of the cashiers and the National Cashier shall be carried out taking into account the rules for the application of supervisory and corrective measures by the Financial Supervision Commission taking into account the scale of the operations of the cashiers and the application of softer measures if no further measures are necessary. This also applies to supervisory activities - that was Mr Gryglas' question. Mr Meysztowicz asked if they would not share. Small money won't be able to spend electronic money. We do not expect these reduced surveillance rigours to be an inspiration, a determining factor in how much money they want to share. Let us remind you, today we are talking about entities in which, in fact, several people work in one department - three or four people. That's what we're talking about. [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked how much money there was. There are nine small banks whose assets are smaller than the smallest cooperative bank. The smallest cooperative bank currently has assets of 22 million. Let me just remind you that cooperative banks have repeatedly benefited from transitional periods in the past when it comes to supplementing capital requirements, and such periods have often been extended simply so that these institutions can operate, provide financial services and operate efficiently on the market. So it seems very reasonable for these small financial actors to create such regulations and conditions as will allow them to cool down, turn into larger ones. Ms Genowefa Tokarska asked about the wording: indirect supervision, milder measures. KNF will interpret the scope of these terms. KNF has a great deal of practice in this regard, and it is not possible to define in a definitive manner all parameters of this, when it seems appropriate that the control or demand for some reporting must be more extensive. We therefore leave here the power of the Financial Supervision Committee to interpret these terms and the scope of the action. The rapporteur answered Mrs Hennig-Kloski's question by 2 years in a situation where the scale of business will be increased. A network of corporate or business connections repeatedly shown here as something very harmful, not to say pejorative, embarrassing. We cannot, as a nation, as Poles, take away the possibilities of functioning in spheres that are not prohibited. Because it is not prohibited to exchange shares, to include shares in other entities, whereas it is over-interpretation to use the schemes of mergers of these entities today in relation to small cash registers, because they do not participate in this action. These schemes that have been invoked may be carried out by larger entities, perhaps by the Stefczyk Kasa, but, please, let us not agree that operating in such models is dangerous, is something illegal, because many institutions providing insurance, insurance, banking and financial services operate on similar terms. As long as these rules are transparent and under the control of the law, they are entitled. Therefore, this type of initiative cannot be condemned a priori. The solvency ratio in these small cash registers is one of the highest and is definitely above the threshold which KNF defines as a minimum. I don't want to give you specific numbers because I don't feel entitled to it, but in the finance committee they've been presented to you. Mrs Skowrońska asks why this is not a government project. There is no ban on directing projects, whether senate or parliamentary, as projects implementing decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's a model that's been adopted. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Ministry of Development and Finance, this project carries out the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, has been significantly developed in the Committee on Public Finance, for which we thank you very much. Special attention should be paid to the initiative on the possibility of applying for the right to provide education in electronic form, which is often used and expected today. I'm very happy for you. Krystyna Skowrońska asked whether the possibility of extending the credit period for loans with a larger volume would not be a threat. These are now isolated cases, you can say, in these small cashiers, there seems to be no reason to limit this, there is no reason to prohibit these loans. And since these are not numerous cases, you can give opportunities to develop these entities, which we very much care about, because we would like to make entrepreneurship of Poles and doing business by the local institutions possible. Giving such incentives is absolutely legitimate. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u75	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, as corrected. Member, please. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Minister did not fully understand my statement and I would like to correct it. Co-operative savings and credit unions received a lot of support, among others. through such arrangements that since the establishment of such organisms until 2008, they were exempt from tax. No other financial institutions were exempt from tax. Thus, in this respect, this assistance to the institutions was very large. The Minister did not understand my statement on the whole philosophy of preparing the project. We do not know the project, because if the government had submitted it, there would have to be a draft accounting regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he soothes, among others. small-cash accounting arrangements. Second line. It wasn't just a single case, it was liquidity. If we give long loans, which means we will have long assets, and short liabilities, i.e. short-term savings, we will have problems with the liquidity of these banks. This is also an element related to the safety of functioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u77	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u78	That's what I'm talking about. [[Applause]] [[We get it, we get it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u79	Thank you. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not art to destroy something that has been built over the years, it has proved to be socially useful, but it is art, ladies and gentlemen, to repair something that has been corrupted, and to give a chance to develop. That's what we do. Speaking of which, this is the first step, I mean many other solutions, for example. It is unacceptable that, in a situation where the SKOK falls, which is currently taking place in the case of the VAC, it is precisely because for many months the Financial Supervision Commission has tolerated irregularities, and opposition Members have distracted attention from many different irregularities in the banking system, such as polysolocats, currency loans, etc., by approaching attacks on cooperative savings and credit banks... It is unacceptable that, in the fallen SKOK, as is the case in the case of SKOK Wołomin, the syndicate decides that shareholders, members will pay double shares. [[It was in the statue, it was in the statue.]] This requires clarification of the provisions of the law, specifically the article. Article 26 (2) (b) Three laws, which you haven't done in years. And now we have such a situation that many Poles are obliged by the syndicate. And that's not the kind of thing a syndicate should do. [[Who?]] This should be done in a different form. Such decisions should be included in the regulations at least or in the statutes... [[It's in the statue.]] ...and taken at least by the general meeting, not by the syndicate in a bankruptcy situation, when nothing can be saved from money. Because such decisions can be made when the money works, has difficulties, but there is a chance to maintain it, and not in a situation where the money no longer exists, it is in bankruptcy. The Syndicate is now moving to 7,000. people with some additional commitments. Here there is a need to clarify the rules, to amend the rules, and maybe also to protect the Bank of National Farms from excessive burden on the guarantee caused by the SKOK-i. Maybe here, where you're crying crocodiles, maybe over it. You have to think about it. That's why we're trying to change the rules and we'll see. I think we're hoping that they will have a good effect, but these changes will be monitored. At the committee meeting, we will also examine your amendments, without rejecting them, as you did for the principle that the amendments tabled by the opposition in advance are doomed. It is very sad what Mrs Tokarska said here, that it is wrong to do what the Members of the Law and Justice do, that they are protecting the SKOKs, but they are not defending cooperative banks, because that is what you were saying. Madam President, do you remember when you introduced the EU directive on cooperative banks in your previous term of office? Do you remember that if it weren't for our activity and our determination... [[That's not true.]] ...is fate. would many cooperative banks be in doubt? It's because of our activity, our support and our commitment... [[That's not true.]] ...part of the cooperative banks were treated in accordance with the validity of what they expected, not according to the rules that you wanted to impose on everyone in advance. Yes, then the state of government also came to such a solution, but it took weeks of work, many publications, so that you would also be willing to defend cooperative banks. So it is wrong, Mrs Tokarska, to accuse us of some bias. [[Please use the parliamentary language.]] Anyway, I don't feel like the kind of person here who's gonna put a protective umbrella over the SKOKs, and I don't care about cooperative banks. That's not true. Really, Commissioner, let us not insinuate such things - what anyone has to say about this. Ladies and gentlemen, the work on this project will take place, and we will take into account your amendments. I hope we can achieve this result... The supervision of KNF over all SKOKs is maintained. It is not true what you emphasized here, scaring Poles. The Poles were not frightened by your speeches regarding the SKOK. [[Because we gave you a guarantee.]] Minister Leszczyna, Mrs Skowrońska, Mr Neumann, Mr Szulc, Mr Chlebowski, from the beginning you have threatened Poles with SKOKs... [[We gave you a guarantee.]] ... The Poles did not let themselves be intimidated - because you thought that the situation in Wołomin's SKOK would destabilize the system of functioning of the SKOKs, that the Poles would simply start to retreat. However, Poles have an opinion on this subject. We just want to secure as much as possible the deposits of Poles in SKOKs, make the law really respected, and the economy - properly preserved in cooperative savings and credit banks. We do not remove the supervision of the Financial Supervision Committee in any way. Don't scare the Poles with that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[We scared Poles with thieves in SKOKs, not SKOKs - thieves in SKOKs, and there's a difference.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u81	Thank you. High... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... High Izbo! In the procedure of correcting Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this needs to be corrected, although after both Mr Cymanski and Minister Janczyk spoke, I thought we understood each other. However, it turns out that Mrs Masłowska does not understand everything, because the principles of healthy competition are not really preserved here. I'll remind you a little bit more about history. Namely, when there was an Amber Gold scandal, KNF was in control there, and from there it was easy to detect. There was no KNF or deposit guarantee in SKOKs. Note the capital differences: deposits in Amber Gold were in the order of PLN 800 million, and at the same time in the SKOKs there were 16 billion small deposits. If we hadn't introduced a KNF check and given the bank guarantee to the Guarantee Fund... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yes.]] ...I don't know if the SKOKs would exist today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u83	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies (Prints Nos 1213 and 1223). I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 24 January 2017, asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law submitted. The proposed bill proposes to amend the Act of 29 July 2005 on public offering and conditions for introducing financial instruments to organised trading and on public companies, commonly referred to as the Public Offering Act. The main objective of the project is to repeal the Article. 72 Act on Public Offering, which provides: Acquisition of shares of a public company in the number leading to an increase in the total number of votes by more than - in the first case - 10% the total number of votes in less than 60 days by an entity whose share in the total number of votes in that company is less than 33% , i - in the second case - 5% the total number of votes in less than 12 months, by a shareholder whose share in the total number of votes in that company is at least 33%, may only take place as a result of a call to sign up for the sale or conversion of those shares of not less than 10% respectively or 5% the total number of votes. The remaining amendments to the Act are the legislative consequence of this proposal. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 2 and Article 2 3 transitional provisions are recorded. The Act will contribute to a more efficient and competitive functioning of public companies, reduce the obligations imposed on capital market participants in Poland. At the committee meeting the draft was presented by Piotr Uściński, we listened to the positive position of the government and the Committee on Financial Supervision, a discussion was held. The Commission received an opinion from the Office for Sejm Analysis on the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law. Finally, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request the adoption of the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u85	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with the issue of the bill amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies, print Nos 1213 and 1223. Mr Bielecki, rapporteur of the Committee on Public Finance, just now spoke about these technical aspects of the proposed changes. In principle, these amendments result in the repeal of the obligation to announce the call referred to in Article. 72 of this law. Applicants indicate that they aim to take into account the current state of development of the Polish capital market. At the time of the regulation, the Polish capital market was undoubtedly at a different stage of development, and the call was intended to prevent buying stock of the public company from buying in short intervals. Such action could have resulted in the unnatural development of the share price of the company. At this stage of the development of the Polish capital market, the prohibition to purchase significant holdings of public companies through transactions concluded on a regulated market seems unreasonable. Applicants shall also stress that the resignation from the call referred to in Article. 72 of the Public Offering Act will not be equivalent to preventing, in quotes, the so-called. the silent acquisition of control over public companies. The shareholders are obliged to notify them of the acquisition of significant holdings of public companies. Of course, the Law and Justice Club takes the view that regulations or elements which are not already applicable in the current capital market or in other areas of life should be removed from legal trading. Support for the proposed changes is also justified, given the positive social and economic impacts described in the explanatory memorandum. It is reasonable to seek to reduce the obligations imposed on participants in the Polish capital market. Similarly, improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the takeover market in Poland must be assessed positively, especially since everything indicates that this will translate into an increase in the economic efficiency of public companies. The proposed regulations do not have a financial impact, which is not meaningless, but increase the transparency of the arrangements for taking over public companies. The transitional provisions on circumstantial and implementing acts have been ensured and a six-month time frame has been set for the entry into force of the new implementing rules. Therefore, the proposed regulation should be considered to be sound and have positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u87	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club on the opinion of this project, I would like to speak about one of the bad practices in matters of extremely important and important Members' initiatives. We understand that constitutionally this is also the right of Members, but the frequent use of such a solution causes, among other things, a lack of. consulting, consulting on the market. In this case, such a solution resulted in the so-called. small shareholders did not have a chance in this process to prepare the bill to participate. There was a voice during the debate on the protection of small shareholders. From this point of view, it can be considered that in the case of important projects, and this project is important, because it will be good for the capital market, such practice causes that there is no consultation, there is no obligation to prepare draft implementing acts, although in this law the deadline for issuing a new implementing act, which must be issued by the Minister of Finance, is a distant date, because six months. We agree that this initiative, which speaks among others. the call for purchase was previously accepted by the Civic Platform Club. Members of the Civic Platform, during their work in committee, firstly, by asking questions, expressed their concern, inter alia. Small shareholders. In the end, we support this solution, because in the previous term of office such actions concerning the call for certain stakes of the Civic Platform club and the government have taken. We are dealing with an extremely important issue here concerning the transparency of ownership structures in a public company and information obligations, and it is therefore clear in this respect that the practice of the Financial Supervision Commission in the field of notification will continue to apply during the call and purchase. Repeal of the Article 72 as requested by applicants and in this respect the adaptation of other articles related to, inter alia, with notification, has this value concerning, among others. security in the acquisition of packages. As the Minister of Finance pointed out, buying in shares of public companies for the purpose of taking over them provides a guarantee of security and therefore the Commission for Financial Supervision is still required to do so. We agree that this is a positive solution for the public market. It can be considered to be a deregulation solution, e.g. moving towards facilitating participation. Once again, I would like to remind you of our general attention to the resorts, concerning a very large number of projects - an attempt to prepare parliamentary projects, to submit them, so as to avoid public consultation in the preparation of certain solutions, should not become a norm. We hope that this will not result in much protest in this regard. I was talking about questions about, among other things. small shareholders and the protection of their rights. In the case of other projects, this is our general remark, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to put together. Minister, we expect more projects to be consulted and not just brought forward by Members so that this situation does not become a custom. We will support this project as the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u89	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You don't have an MP? [[There is, but Kukiz is still in Parliament.]] Excuse me, Mr Grzegorz Długi. I'm so sorry. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm basically in a substitute sense here, because if it weren't for an unfortunate event, Rafał Wójcikowski would be here with us today to present our position. Unfortunately, fate has decided differently, so I feel a little uncomfortable replacing someone I can't replace. On the other hand, we would like to stress that the stock market will only develop if there are many, particularly small, investors who will invest their savings there and thus develop the stock exchange and develop the entire savings system. Above all, we lack savings for the proper development of our economy. As we know, the savings rate in our economy is perhaps one of the lowest in Europe, and this is a serious challenge for our further development. The current project, which has been presented, although not revolutionary, is going in the opposite direction. Protecting the interests of small investors is that they have some certainty that in some sense it will be clear where their money is going, and in some sense it will be known to everyone what is happening on the stock market. Liquidation of the article 72 is a step in the wrong direction. It also shows that PO-PiS, this coalition of Platform and PiS, in these matters that are important for citizens, forgets about these small ones, forgets that by repealing such regulations, we are only working for big corporations, we are working for big investment funds, which are working for quick profit, mainly speculative. This is not the right decision, and that is why we are not willing to support it. Call from Art. 72 - they were introduced in general in order, however, to reduce price fluctuations associated with the acquisition of larger shares in order to prevent so-called. the demand effect and thus stabilise the stock market. We don't really understand why we're giving up on this. The purpose of this provision is also to disclose the acquisition of shares, the transparency of the transaction, equal treatment of shareholders, to ensure that all shareholders are able to dispose of shares at the same price. We give up on this, arguing that the Article provision. 72 can be easily bypassed. I don't think that's the right direction. Therefore, the possibility of circumvention should be removed rather than the protection of small shareholders. An impossibility that in some sense introduces an article. 72, buying shares of public companies in the short term - and yet this affects, as we know, the rate of a given share - with a large fragmentation of the shareholder, and so is in some companies, allows control of the company to be made public. I mean, if there's a big fragmentation, then you don't have to get 33 or 66%. , as in the article. 73 and 74 are defined, you don't have to have that advantage, sometimes you just have 8% , sometimes it's enough to have 9% And even less so as to have control of the company. We forget that. Therefore, we should move towards sealing, not towards eliminating rules which, in fact, are very easy to circumvent, but this is a weak argument. In view of the fact that the liquidation of this article is not coupled with the general new concept, which was announced, the reconstruction of the whole model of majorization calls - there is no new concept, we see only going hand in hand with big investors, big corporations - we have great difficulty supporting this concept and for now we will probably be against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u91	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u92	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the Poselski Club on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies, print No. 1213. This draft law entered the Sejm on 10 January this year. It assumes, of course, first of all, the repeal of the article. 72, i.e. repealing the obligation to announce an invitation to sign up for the sale or exchange of shares of a public company. In the explanatory memorandum, the Members point out that Article. 72 was announced at a time when the Polish capital market was in a different place than today. There was then a fear that the share price of the company could be shaped in an unnatural way by buying stock of the public company in a short time. According to the applicants, such a risk does not occur today, hence the desire to repeal this article. Despite the assurances made by the applicants that this change would not allow for the silent acquisition of control over public companies, such a risk remains. The State of law must not allow the entity to acquire significant holdings of public companies in an uncontrolled manner. It is true, of course, that the Polish capital market in 2005, i.e. in the year of the adoption of the Act on Public Offering, was in a completely different place than today, but we are not sure how the sale or exchange of shares of the public company will affect the course of the company's shares today. Ladies and gentlemen! Club Parliamentary Modern supports deregulation. And in this case, we are in favour, but we will report our objections. However, I hope that our concerns will be positively verified on the market, which means that there will not be such situations as I mentioned. As for deregulation, we are in favour. We are in favour of the free market and ultimately support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u93	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present an opinion on the committee's report on amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. These are print No 1213 and print No 1223, already resulting from the report of the Committee on Public Finance. The final version does not differ substantially from the original version. Only minor legislative amendments have been introduced. As far as the amendment is concerned, it consists of repealing a single article, Article. 72. It is a matter of repealing the obligation to issue a call. The purpose of this call was to prevent the buying-in of shares of a public company within a short period of time, as a result of which the share price of the company would be shaped in an unnatural way. The first question raised concerns whether it would be possible to take control of public companies quietly. But this doubt is eliminated because there will still be a notification obligation. The project is generally deregulating and should strengthen the competitiveness of the national economy. Although this is again a draft of a group of Members, not a government project, but in this case - it has already sounded in this Chamber - we know that it was prepared by the government of the previous term of office, so there was consultation. Although it would not be excessive to obtain positions and opinions of current institutions participating in the capital market. They would also be very useful today, because there is, for example, this doubt that arises: the protection of the small investors that Mr Długi and other colleagues have spoken about. These parliamentary projects may be legally, but I must point out to the predecessors that they are not really equivalent to government projects because they are deprived of the assessment of those involved in the draft, the ongoing evaluation and the opinions on the implementation of the legislation. Of course, the Polish People's Party will support this short deregulation project needed in the financial market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u95	Thank you. Mr Ireneus Gains, an unspoken statement on behalf of the circle. Two Members joined the questions. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek. One and a half minutes to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the applicant: Is the repeal of the article. The 72th Act on Public Offering and Conditions for the Introduction of Financial Instruments will translate into an increase in the economic efficiency of public companies? Is there a chance? And will the participants in the Polish capital market have more responsibilities in this project? Are there any additional duties falling on them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u97	I ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, obviously, with a question to the applicant. Yesterday, in the Committee on Public Finance and today in Mrs Skowronska's statement, there was such a thesis that the proposed changes were not consulted, that this is another parliamentary project, precisely to avoid these consultations. On the other hand, Mrs Skowrońska herself said that this is a project raised after the Civic Platform. The Civic Platform reported this project before the end of the previous term of office and did not have time to carry out the planned, requested changes then. As far as I'm concerned, there was a public consultation at the time, the project was consulted. It has not been enough time for the situation on the Polish capital market to change so much that there is a need to consult these projects. Do we have two to three years of infinity to consult on these projects? Hence my questions to the applicants: Has this project actually been consulted before the end of the previous term? How did this consultation go? Did everything take place in accordance with procedures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u99	Thank you, sir. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. The applicant's representative, Mr Piotr Uściński, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u100	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, as a representative of the applicants, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the committee very warmly for presenting the report to the committee and to you for this debate, in which there were votes in favour of the bill and, naturally, some reservations and questions. In fact, it is a deregulation project, because it reduces the obligations imposed on participants in the Polish capital market, and it is really about reducing unnecessary obligations. At today's stage of development of the Polish capital market a provision from art. 72 no longer protects small shareholders, no longer fulfills the function which initially led to the adoption of this provision. This isn't the stage anymore. Small investors are not protected by Article. 72, therefore, is simply an unnecessary burden. In addition - and this question also appeared from you - the effectiveness of the Polish national economy will be improved and our Polish companies will be able to consolidate themselves more easily, carry out minor acquisitions. It is worth noting that the repeal of the Article. 72 will not result in the possibility of silent takeover of companies, control of companies. There is still a notification obligation, a limit of 33%. and 66% , in which Article. 73 and 74 will continue to function. So that I ask you to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u101	Thank you, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I listened attentively to the whole discussion and it seems that the rapporteur has responded comprehensively and weighed all the dilemmas of the project. I can only add that industry associations support this project, that the Ministry of Development and Finance also welcomes it. It appears that this was an over-regulation on the market, which has functioned adequately to the stage of its development so far and in the past years, which is not reflected in EU legislation and as such seems redundant at the moment, but that it may also be so that people with fewer shares of individual companies will benefit from this change because of the generation of demand for unlimited rigour in the acquisition of packages of 10% or 5%, especially when it concerns the acquisition of less than 33%, because this demand will not be limited in the calendar structure, it can be generated and adequately capable of causing this. an increase in shares, the beneficiaries of which will be the holders of the assets of the company concerned. Resignation of the call referred to in Article. The 72th Public Offering Act will not be equivalent to allowing the silent acquisition of control over public companies, since shareholders continue to have a notification obligation related to the acquisition of significant holdings of public companies. We think this can contribute to the efficiency of trading on the stock exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u103	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bielecki, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor. There's no envoy? The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies, print No. 1213. The essence of the proposal submitted, amending the Law of 29 July 2005, is to repeal the obligation to announce a call under Article. 72 laws. According to the applicants, this solution meets the needs of the development of the Polish capital market. The current obligation to announce the call was introduced at the time of the birth of the Polish capital market, which was at a different level of development than it is now. The purpose of this legal guarantee was to prevent the buying-in of shares of a public company in a short period of time, which could affect the course of the shares of the company in an unnatural way. Resignation of the call referred to in Article. 72 of the Public Offering Act will remove additional administrative burden on the capital market while maintaining control over public companies in the form of a notification obligation related to the acquisition of significant holdings of public companies. The Free and Solidarni Circle shares the assessment of the socio-economic and legal and financial consequences presented in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. We recognise that this project will have a positive impact on the reduction of obligations imposed on participants in the Polish capital market. In addition, the proposed regulation will contribute to a more efficient and competitive capital investment market in the form of so-called capital investments. acquisitions in Poland and will translate into an increase in the economic efficiency of public companies by obtaining the benefits of increasing their activity and resulting reduction of their operating costs and thus contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the national economy. We agree that the entry into force of the bill will not have financial consequences and that this legislative amendment will increase the transparency of the regulation on the acquisition of public companies. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u105	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Patent Advocates (prints no. 1138 and 1208). I ask Mr Paweł Kobylinski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Patent Advocates. This draft was received on 9 December 2016 and on 13 December was sent to the committee for further work. Its first reading took place on 12 January and, following the amendment, the committee unanimously recommended to the High House that the draft No 1138 be adopted together with the amendments. At this point, I would like to thank all the clubs very much for their substantive work on this project and the conflict-free meetings. Keep up the good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u107	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. In that case, I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay. Later then. You'll have to wait, sir. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the Act on Patent Advocates, print no. 1138. The opinion of the bill aims to introduce changes in the Polish legal system towards the compatibility of national rules on fees for patent agents with European Union law. In this respect, the proposal provides for the withdrawal of the minimum rates charged by patent advocates in contractual relations between the patent advocate and the customer. In the amended legal state, the minimum rates will remain only if the court or body is satisfied with the costs of substitution. The maintenance in the amended legal state of minimum rates for actions before the judicial authorities and the Patent Office will be informative. It should be noted that the European Commission issued its opinion in the February 2016 Decision. the case. In the absence of a reply from the Polish party or an unsatisfactory reply, the European Commission has the opportunity to refer the matter to the Court of Justice. The Commission accuses Poland that the fixing of minimum rates limits the free movement of service providers, as it constitutes a restriction for operators entering the market and is an obstacle to the free provision of services. It should be noted that giving up minimum rates and consequently reducing the costs of such services will increase the interest of traders in the patent process and in the protection of intellectual property. This can be a convenience and encouragement for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It should also be borne in mind that this does not affect the quality of the services provided. Mr Marshal, as the rapporteur said, there were no issues at issue here. We, too, as a club, believe that this project should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u109	Thank you. And I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Patent Advocates aims to regulate the application of minimum rates by patent Advocates. It arose because of reservations about these provisions notified by the European Commission. The introduction of the planned regulation will fully respond to the allegations and avoid referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union. On 25 February 2016, the European Commission issued an opinion addressed to the Republic of Poland on the minimum rates laid down in the Polish provisions for patent advocates. The Commission noted that setting minimum rates for patent agents limits the free movement of service providers as it constitutes a restriction for those who wish to enter the market but cannot compete in terms of prices for their services. Furthermore, it constitutes an obstacle to the freedom to provide services and hinders access to the services of the patent spokesperson. The application of minimum rates by patent attorneys is currently governed by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 2 December 2003 on fees for patent spokespersons. The proposal contained in the draft of this Act includes the waiver of the minimum rates charged by patent lawyers in the relationship between the patent attorney and the customer. In other words, minimum rates in customer relations - the spokesperson are abolished. Proposed amendment of the Article. The 13th Patent Advocates Act allows the application of minimum rates only for the purpose of establishing and judging the costs of substitution in proceedings before the judicial authorities and the Patent Office. Official rates will serve as an information function. The citizen, exercising his right to court and taking action before the judicial authorities and the Patent Office, will be aware of the order of expenditure he may expect. Of course, as is apparent from other provisions, in the event of actual costs lower than those laid down in the Regulation, reimbursement of actual costs will take place on the basis of the presented cost inventory and it is therefore possible to rule on the reimbursement of actual costs below the minimum rate. Changing the rules on minimum rates for patent advocates should be a significant convenience for entrepreneurs. It may result in lower patent costs, thereby increasing the availability of these services, in particular for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Developing the competitiveness segment of service providers, i.e. patent advocates, should increase the interest of entrepreneurs in patenting and patent protection of intellectual property. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice supports the draft law submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u111	Thank you, sir. And I would like to ask Mr James Kulescha to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u112	Now, wait a minute. Mr. Marshal, would you mind if I...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u113	Maybe it's over, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u114	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u115	Maybe it's out of your mind instead of the tablet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u116	A few notes, literally. I'd like to ask you to reschedule and apologize for...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u117	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u119	I would like to ask Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Patent Advocates aimed at regulating the application of minimum rates by patent Advocates, meaning in fact that the minimum rates charged by patent Advocates in contractual relations between the Advocate and the Customer are not being applied by the Modern Club. So far, we have seen a situation where, as a result of the existing minimum rates for patent services, which was linked to the lack of competition between patent attorneys, patent procedures have become difficult to access, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals. Due to rigid prices and prolonged proceedings, the ordering entities often resigned from the services of the patent spokesperson and the possibility of obtaining patent protection. The services of patent attorneys were not of great interest, and the number of orders did not affect the quality and price of patent attorneys' services. To date, there has also been a barrier to restricting the freedom of movement of service providers from the Member States of the European Union, as they could not compete by setting prices below the statutory minimum rates. In our view, after the changes, the Act will not only take into account the opinion of the European Commission in relation to the Republic of Poland of 25 February 2016, but will also allow free competition in the prices of patent attorneys' services, increase access for all entrepreneurs to the services of patent attorneys and will positively affect the development of entrepreneurship and cross-border provision of services by patent attorneys established in other Member States. In view of the above, we believe that changing the rules on minimum rates for patent spokespersons will be a significant comfort in relations between the Ombudsman and the customer, and we support this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u121	Thank you, Member. Is Mr Kulesza ready? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, it should be noted that this project, regardless of our opinions, is forced by European Union law. Nevertheless, Kukiz15 as a defender of economic freedom, although this is a government project, although it is forced by European Union law, agrees with this project. It is quite simple - the project will certainly increase competition and reduce the price regulation of patent advocates. I am very happy that all clubs, as rarely as ever, agree with this project. The solution proposed in this law, according to which the minimum rates will remain officially fixed only for the purpose of determining and judging the costs of substitution in proceedings before the judicial authorities and before the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland ruling in dispute proceedings, and in contractual relations between the Ombudsman and clients the rates will be set on market grounds only, seems to be a very optimal solution and worthy of support. In conclusion, Kukiz15 supports this project because we are a substantive opposition. And regardless of whether it is a government project or is imposed by very often permanent European Union law, in this case it is in line with the principles of freedom of business, in line with the interests of the consumer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u123	Thank you, sir. And I would like to see Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to take a position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Patent Advocates. Protecting intellectual values is very important and important. In Poland we have many interesting ideas, many interesting inventions and very often they are not completely exploited by our economy. Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs, inventors do not benefit because they are not registered, are not patented. And the reason for this is very often this - according to the entrepreneurs, PARP has done such research and 72% entrepreneurs said that the procedures were too complicated and the rates were high and they could not afford to register it in the patent office. Therefore, if this law is to contribute to the fact that these actions will be more transparent and should undoubtedly be cheaper, we support this. And I think this should contribute to the efficiency of the Polish economy. It doesn't matter who created it, because the Patent Office has always functioned, patent attorneys. They haven't been around for a year. It is important that the law serves businesses well, and this should be supported regardless of the political option. Therefore, the Polish People's Party supports these actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u125	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on Patent Advocates. The amended amendment, as indicated during the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, is the result of Poland's commitment to amend the minimum rates of patent attorneys in Polish legislation in response to the critical opinion issued by the European Commission. According to the draft, as expected by the committee, the minimum rate for patent attorneys for carrying out the activities specified in the contracts concluded by the Ombudsman and the client shall be abolished. It remains, however, that the rate applied for the purpose of determining and judging the costs of substitution in proceedings conducted by a court or other bodies is in place. According to the European Commission, adapting the Polish right to EU regulation will contribute to the development of the patent services market by enabling new providers of these services to enter the market, for which current rates were uncompetitive. This contributes directly to facilitating access to the services of the patent spokesperson and to reducing the prices in place on the market. For companies wishing to apply for patent protection, these changes will be crucial. It is also important in our opinion that this proposal, after taking into account the amendments made by the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen, has been fully accepted by it. This is an example of good and beneficial cooperation. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u127	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Only Mrs Iwona Michalek came forward. Question time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions to the government: Does the patent attorneys' environment have reservations about this project, which can de facto reduce their income? Were there any reservations at all? Is there, therefore, a risk with regard to the services provided by the Advocates that those services provided by the Patent Advocates may now be at a lower level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u129	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! With a brief review of the Act on Patent Advocates, which it serves, why it is being processed - there is a lot to be said - once again I will remind you that this is an implication, to fully follow the opinion, the reasoned opinion of the European Commission relating to the minimum rates applicable in Polish law for the services of Patent Advocates, to the recommendation to remove this change contained in the reasoned opinion of the committee. The contested law was adopted on 5 October by the European Affairs Committee without any comments. On 20 October, the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers adopted it and addressed it to the Government. Then, on 6 December, the Council of Ministers adopted a bill amending the Act on Patent Advocates and decided to refer it to the Sejm. This law also provides for the abolition of the minimum rates laid down in contracts concluded between the patent attorney and the customer, as stated here. The minimum rates will be applied only for the purpose of determining and judging the costs of substitution. We are convinced that this change does not only imply reservations from the European Commission, but is above all an opening-up of the market for spokesperson services. Let me just say that there are 900 ombudsman in Poland, three of whom are listed as public spokespersons, so this market is a very narrow market. We hope that this amendment, as I say, will not only contribute to the fact that no penalties will be imposed on Poland, but that competition will also increase in this market, and thus will increase the interest of entrepreneurs in patent protection of inventions, because this interest in Poland is still not satisfactory. At the same time, we hope that as a result of the proposed change, as I say, the spectrum of imposing penalties, potentially high financial penalties on Poland, will be removed. At the same time, we know, as we say, after consultation and after the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, that this is a full compliance with the recommendations of the European Commission, so the danger of punishing Poland, which could reach up to 35 thousand. Euros a day will be removed. It is a huge challenge, and I respond immediately to the question of the Member, for all of us, also for Members, to promote such services, to promote not only the profession of the Ombudsman and his activities, but above all the patenting itself. This is the challenge we face. This challenge is to be met not only by this amendment, but also by financial instruments launched at the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development or the National Centre for Research and Development, which are to encourage, encourage entrepreneurs not to be afraid to enter such proceedings. Therefore, we recommend that the Sejm adopt this draft amendment. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u131	Thank you very much. Are you the rapporteur? No, you don't want an MP, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity (prints No. 807 and 1152). I ask Mr Paweł Lisiecki to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Freedom of Business, print No. 807. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 5 September 2016, he referred the draft law in the above case to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the above draft law at its meetings on 14 September and 14 December 2016, requests that the High Sejm adopt this draft law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u133	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Gawron on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice relating to the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland concerning the draft law amending the Law on freedom of business. In line with the proposal to supplement the provisions of draft normative acts on the rights and property obligations of economic operators and their rights and obligations vis-à-vis public administrations, this bill will be examined for its impact on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the results of these studies will be a mandatory element of the justification for the proposed normative act. The solution is aimed at simplifying complex tax rules, as well as abolishing excessive administrative and formal obligations affecting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises generate more than 50% of our GDP each year. It is these companies and their owners that are potentially our biggest capital in terms of economic development. Small companies, compared to large companies or corporations, do not have an extensive legal department, are unable to keep track of changes in legislation. Because of their large fragmentation, they did not create a representation that could effectively participate in the legislative process. All the more so the need for regulations that will safeguard their interests to a large extent. In this context, it should also be noted that the proposed provisions of the Act should contribute to a positive change in civil servants' mentality towards small companies. This is one of the key elements of the In view of the key role of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and the proposed provision in the Business Freedom Act, the legislator will be obliged to take into account the alignment of the proposed regulation with the specifics of the economy sector. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club by Maria Janyska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law contained in print No 807 is five lines of text which is supposed to match, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, legislation to the needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to the specificities of the functioning of these enterprises. On the other hand, I ask you, by examining the purpose of the explanatory memorandum and later the text in the draft, it can be concluded that there is already a first contradiction. In order to justify the purpose of this project, the project designer stated that it was intended to match the rules designed by the legislator, the regulations to the specific characteristics of the operation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, while the Act states that an assessment of the expected impact of the project on activities is to be carried out - an assessment of the impact on activities, not a statement that the draft laws are to be adapted to the specific characteristics of these enterprises. So you can make this assessment and end it, and there is no available and no sanction related to it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the project contains only an intention, very general, good in principle, but very general, therefore ineffective, because it is not equivalent to the objective, nor does it show any, for example, a framework or criteria of this assessment, which would be carried out so as to have an effect. Moreover, this is also indicated in the government's position towards this presidential project, which states that the proposal submitted fits in with the government's thinking. I'd prefer it to be part of legislation, good legislation. On the other hand, it can be read that there is no legal act of the statutory rank that specifically regulates the assessment of the expected impact of a draft law or regulation and the right place to deal with such issues would perhaps be another place where the effectiveness of this solution would be ensured. So, ladies and gentlemen, even the government here doubts the effectiveness of this solution. This intention, although articulated as a pro-entrepreneur and recognising the high role of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in GDP creation, is unfortunately not - and I regret to say that it is absolutely implemented. So far, by the President. In the past year, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government has introduced regulations that are detrimental to this sector of entrepreneurship, which increase bureaucracy, increase the costs of its operation and, above all, create a very large legal chaos in the environment of these companies. I would like to mention, for example, the law on land trading which closed the way for those who do not have the status of an individual farmer - no economic activity can be carried out there - not to mention trade taxes, a banking tax which has caused an increase in the cost of financial products and a reduction in availability for micro- and small enterprises, first of all, or a tax that is suspended but which has also slowed down investments in this industry, changes to pharmaceutical law, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many examples of this past year. The President has so far proven that he is signing all these laws and not analysing the impact of regulations on entrepreneurs. In addition, this has also been written by legal authorities, for example in resolutions that take up further branches of the law of our universities, which exactly indicate it. I ask you, the resolution of the Senate of the Jagiellonian University from this year, in which it calls for lawmaking in the sense of responsibility for the common good, respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, to respect the independence of judicial institutions and to ask the highest authorities in Poland, including the President, to assume the role of mediator restoring the general community, paying attention to the way in which the law is made. Next: the Council of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, which objects to the actions taken by the current parliamentary majority, including the President of the Republic of Poland, and says that they are in line with the fundamental principles of our constitutional order, as well as the principle of correct legislation. Another resolution: Council of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Silesia on the solidarity of the legal environment, where attention is paid to ignoring the principles of transparent, democratic lawmaking. Ladies and gentlemen, just in the face of what is happening with Polish legislation and with Polish legislation since the beginning of this term, how can we be assured of what the President wants in this law? This project cannot be improved, and therefore we do not make amendments as a club. I'm sure we'll strive for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To submit my own project on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, from the Kukiz club15, now has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u138	Finally: We have an illegally adopted budget of the state, which you signed the President of the Republic of Poland. [[Oh, dear, dear...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u139	Are you an MP? You're welcome. [[If you're not ashamed to say things like that, it's okay with Poland.]] [[That's not funny at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print no. 807, i.e. the draft law on the amendment of the Law on freedom of business. This is a very short project to add a single point to assess the impact of design, regulation on businesses, especially the smallest, micro, small and medium-sized ones. And let me say this: referring to what Mrs Janyska has just said, quoting calls for law-making in accordance with the principles of good legislation, in accordance with constitutional principles, I wanted to appeal to the entire High House for law-making in the interests of citizens, above all in the interests of citizens. That's one thing. Secondly, let me remind you that we are talking here about the Freedom of Business Act. Once again, I stress the word "freedom." In Poland today, entrepreneurs do not have the freedom to conduct business - unfortunately these are the facts - because they are bombarded with even more new regulations. And here, in some sort of gesture, seeking perhaps some sort of normality, the President proposes that, if we are to introduce new regulations, we also have to take into account formally in the explanatory memorandum the effects that these regulations have on these smallest entrepreneurs. And, ladies and gentlemen, what if we deregulated a little bit of this legislation instead of re-regulating it? Wouldn't that be the right direction? Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Kukiz Club has been calling for deregulation, in particular those rules that govern Polish entrepreneurs to deregulate it. We are pleased that a deregulation committee has finally been set up. And we very much hope that the result of this project, when it comes into force, will actually be that Polish entrepreneurs from subsequent amendments to the legislation that we have today will be able to read only that either - but, as I say, in fact - these new regulations will not affect their business activity, or - as I would like even more - these new regulations will have a positive impact on their business activity, that they will encourage them to conduct business in Poland, that they will act in a positive way, one that will actually make us enjoy real economic growth, real growth in investment, encouraging Poles to entrepreneurship, to conduct their own business activity. Because what we have today, this complicated system, is, I'm sorry, it's not a system, it's a tax mess -- it's a first. And secondly, the changes that have recently been made are, in my opinion, scandalous changes that raise doubts, for example, in the case of: tax interpretations. And the possibility of spending for a fee, let's face it, a $20,000 racket. zł tax interpretation this is a scandal compared to what used to be. So that, ladies and gentlemen, by fully supporting this presidential project, no longer digging into the details, and based on various appeals from various legal backgrounds, we want this point, in fact, to be incorporated into the Polish legal state, into the Freedom of Business Act. But we are even more interested in the fact that in Poland the law on freedom of business finally regulates freedom, and it was not a corset in conducting business activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u141	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 Mr Paweł Grabowski... Oh, Modern, I'm so sorry. Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to print number 807. This is a draft amendment to the Law on the Freedom of Business presented by President Andrzej Duda. Minister, it doesn't blow this project, I'll be honest with you. Not only because of the volume of this law, but also the content, because it is such a good matter of expressing the will presented in the form of an amendment of the law, and after reading into the content of this law it turns out that there is no sign that these negative opinions will be taken into account. It is merely a statement that it is necessary to assess the draft laws that concern the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, the impact they have on their activities. It seems that it does seem a little bit like Mr President wants to make a gesture towards the organisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. I myself attended meetings where Mr President attended, and indeed there were such appeals, that, however, given that more than 99% companies in Poland are small, medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, making a gesture showing that the President will take care of the interests of these people. The question is, why is it so late? Because let's not forget one thing - there have already been examples here - why such a project appears at a time when many laws have already been passed. No one then asked or wondered or tried to figure out what these laws would affect small and medium-sized enterprises. Here the example of the Banking Tax Act, which hits small and medium-sized enterprises, was an attempt to change and introduce a commercial tax, but I would also like to say that to a very large extent the development of these companies had a negative impact on the introduction of a minimum rate, the lowest salary. These are the things that hit these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises directly. Thus, it is difficult to refer to this project in terms of its real relevance, because I believe that this usefulness will be limited, even though I believe that it is really necessary to go in this direction in the case of those laws which are being examined in the Seym, to take into account the opinion of external actors who express this opinion on the impact of these regulations on the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. As it is indeed a very simple law, the Modern Club does not submit any amendments either. We want to respect the President's will and we will count on the legislators, however, to take the President's opinion into account, and we will therefore support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u143	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to refer to the presidential bill amending the Law on Freedom of Business. Here's what I'm going to say: it's a more intentional act than a technical one. It's good in the direction, but it's meant to be, because there's no mode of action there. We can, of course, say in the OSR that there will be an increase in the burden, that there will be an increase in administrative costs, but there is no further course of action. You mean what? That we don't take over the bill, change it? Well, it's just that there's no technical application here, and actually entrepreneurs don't expect it. Entrepreneurs expect concrete solutions to support them. The evaluation itself has not yet had any effect. As I said, it is important to reduce the administrative burden, reduce the financial burden, reduce the frequency of law changes, because this is the worst for a small entrepreneur who does not employ lawyers, has a smaller administrative staff of people or is not at all there, and if the rules change, it does not keep up with these changes. Another thing: we, in this term of office, are very often considering parliamentary projects that are very complicated and, unfortunately, have an impact on the activities of businesses, the lives of the inhabitants, our citizens. There's no OSR. Question: "What about it?" These are important laws, but there is no assessment of the effects of regulation, because it comes from the assumption that there is no need to prepare a difficult impact assessment, a waste of time, etc., let's make a law so-called. It's a fast path. Then there's just no way to use it. So that's not gonna work either. And in the case of this fast track, what happens? Later, there are a number of changes made at the committee meeting, because very often there is not even a subcommittee. Even if there is an OSR, if there are later substantive changes to the law, everything is already falling apart and it doesn't affect us. So that the execution of this and the intentions of the President's thoughts will not be entirely possible. The Polish People's Party supports these solutions, but we would expect more effective and more restrictive action in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. We have five Members to ask questions. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting time for one minute. [[Can I sign up again, Marshal?]] You're welcome. Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question for the representative of the applicant whether this project has been consulted with representatives of entrepreneurs in the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because if this draft law is to ensure that there are always specific effects of a particular regulation for the entrepreneur, I think that first of all it is necessary to examine the effects of this regulation on entrepreneurship, whether they actually produce the positive effect that you are assuming. Because once again, the general, incredibly general intention is good, but it will not be of any benefit, because there is no framework, no rules, no criteria around which this assessment is to be made. Did micro-, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs participate in what is supposed to affect them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I assume the will of the projectors and I want to believe that this is done in the intention of helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to develop better so that they make a greater contribution to GDP, but I want to ask about the practical dimension of this proposal, this legislation. What will change in the legislative process? How will this procedure be revised in relation to this impact assessment? Will you take greater account of the views of employers' organisations than has been taken into account in the proposals so far, in the public consultation? How do you want to implement these changes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, I have to admit that this is a very interesting project, and I am surprised that there are voices here that doubt its purpose, because it is really designed to secure small and medium-sized enterprises in some way. I wanted to ask whether in all the projects, regardless of who will be the initiator of the bill - whether it will be Members or Senators or Government, whether it will be a social initiative - this will have to be the analysis of the impact on the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. And second question. A Member from the Polish People's Party pointed this out. I wanted to ask if, in the case of a fast path, such an analysis would have to be included. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government whether, in the light of today's discussion - we are talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we are talking about OSR here - we should also not show more clearly the impact of individual legal solutions on the life of Polish families - this is important, because each law translates to some extent into the lives of Polish families, financial consequences, difficulties or facilitations - and in OSR we should take these elements into account, because it is important on an equal footing with small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u153	Thank you very much. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I ask the applicant's representative and I have a question. Minister, if it turns out that the assessment of the expected impact will be very negative when it comes to the provisions of the Act, the parliamentary majority will accept this bill, which I have a guarantee that the President will veto such a law, and will it even consider it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u155	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The President's draft amendment to the Freedom of Business Act requires an assessment of the expected impact of the bill or regulation on the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The sector of these companies, as most of us know, is crucial for the economy and their regulations are the same as for the large ones, which in many cases hinders the operation of these small businesses. The proposed regulations should therefore be adapted to the specific features of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And the question is, will this change move towards facilitation and more reduction of obstacles to these companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Dera will now speak at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will answer the questions that have been asked here by ladies and gentlemen of Members. The first question was asked by Mrs Janyska. Has this project been consulted with entrepreneurs and to what extent? Well, I would like to make it clear that this proposal was an initiative of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers in Poland at all. They are the ones who have asked the President to submit this project. There was a question asked here by most of the people asking, what is the expected effect of this bill and why entrepreneurs even referred to the President. These small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have just pointed to the very important fact that in these small companies, several people, they do not have employees who deal with legal issues. They are not able to keep track of legislation, and a number of these projects then concern them and they are surprised that some draft law comes in and has a very strong impact on the functioning of these entrepreneurs. And that's what they pointed out. And this provision is primarily intended to give information already at the stage when the project enters the Polish Parliament, which it may have consequences for these entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is very important for transparency and planning to conduct our own business, because today we do not need to find out here that information is one of the main things to say here... [[Voices from the room: Agents, factors.]] ...factors - factors that affect how you run your own company. There are companies that are able to give huge money for information, and here it is more in terms of security, so that those who conduct this business simply are not surprised and find out too late, because then, if there is a problem in reacting... It is not that all projects will have a positive impact, because there will also be ones that point to some additional burden, but the essence is that they will be informed beforehand, able to adapt to it, will be able to react at all. And that's the answer to that question right away, what will happen when such a project is addressed. It was even a question of whether it would apply to all those who are the designers. Yeah, exactly everyone. From parliamentary projects to government projects, the president's projects, social projects. In any case, such impacts will have to be presented. The lack of such influence, these effects will be able to cause, will cause the marshal to be able to refuse to accept the project further because it does not meet the statutory criteria. This is the first such barrier that you can apply to the marshal, because your marshal checks the compliance of all the projects with the bill. If the Act obliges, and here is clear information and obligation of the projectors to prepare such an impact, the absence of this may result in such a project not being adopted as it does not meet these criteria. The projector will be called upon to complete his bill. Such things happen in other situations. So that this will apply to all those who will want to bring the project to the Polish Parliament. If it's a negative effect, because there's a question here too... Mr Meysztowicz asked the question: Will it be a guarantee of vetoing this? Just a moment ago, I wanted to say that there will be legislative proposals that will have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, on citizens. For example, fiscal issues, taxes have a negative effect, but taxes have to be paid, and I think there is no doubt about that. So no one's gonna give you any guarantees here. But if the effects of a given regulation are detrimental to entrepreneurs, that is why it is in the Polish parliament and opposition, and the majority of the government, to consider whether such a project should be voted out and adopted. [[Minister, Minister...]] This is very, very important information also for parliamentarians. Anyone can use this information in the most beneficial way for themselves. I am already talking about a political assessment of how to use this information, which should be in support of such a project. This is the answer to Mr Duda, that since the employers themselves asked for such a project to be prepared because it would make it easier for them to know about these consequences, the answer is very clear: it makes life easier for entrepreneurs and not hinders them. This project in no way hinders the functioning of Polish companies, and it is by them, very, very expected by these entrepreneurs. I know that this project is not a long project, because it is one article, one commitment, but very important and expected by Polish entrepreneurs. I listened to this discussion and, first of all, I would like to thank almost all the clubs for supporting the President's proposal, and the ladies of the Civic Platform, remembering some of the things that were happening in this Chamber, reminding them that in the previous term there was a formation which, regardless of whether the case concerned forests, mining, agriculture, education, each time used its speeches to attack the Polish Church. This formation is no longer in the Polish Parliament, so I would like us to focus more on substantive evaluation rather than on political evaluation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That polemic was wrong, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u159	Thank you very much. Does a government representative want to speak? Yes. Mr Mariusz Haladyj, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u160	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! One question came to the government. Mr Kasprzak asked if it was also worth examining the impact on families when assessing the impact of regulation. I agree, absolutely so. Even in a form that obliges all ministries to accept, to carry out impact assessments just when submitting each project, this is exactly the point. That is, when testing, among others. The impact of each regulation on competitiveness, entrepreneurship is also a point on family, citizens and households in both monetary and non-monetary terms. I've just taken such an example of an OSR. So that we very much agree with this request. On the government side, we even manage to fill it out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u161	Thank you very much. The rapporteur, I understand, will no longer speak? The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Freedom of Business Act. Micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 99% of all enterprises in our country. It is on them that the Polish economy is based and they are the source of livelihood for most Poles. The need to support the development of this sector is, in my opinion, undisputed. Today's presidential bill is part of the policy of supporting entrepreneurs initiated by the Government of Law and Justice, a policy that appreciates the potential and importance of small and medium-sized companies, which aims primarily to facilitate business start-ups. Within this policy, a package of 100 changes has been created for companies, which are tasked, among others. a change in the state in which this country is the biggest threat to the entrepreneur. This is the course of work I consider appropriate, and its continuation is a necessity. That is why I am mostly pleased with the legislative initiative taken by our President. In fact, I consider it easier for entrepreneurs to oblige the projectors to present in their justification the draft laws on the impact of their regulations on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Although there are currently general provisions in the relevant regulations for the examination of this impact, these are not sufficiently unambiguous to be applicable in a general way and thus have the expected results. It should also be stressed that the commitment presented in this draft will be required by all those making draft laws - both the government and Members or the social side. I believe that the introduction of these regulations in the form of a normative act will have only positive effects. About Free and Solidarni will be happy to support further proceding on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u163	To the third... [[Voice from the room: No, no, amendment.]] Indeed, there was an amendment. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws (print No 1183). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u164	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure. This project is part of a package prepared by the Ministry of Development, so-called. a package of 100 changes for companies. Last year we worked on one of the laws, today there are three more projects in this package. In the beginning, I may point out that it is, of course, a government project, while in part this project also benefits from the work of the team, which was appointed by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, which completed its work in 2016. Part of this work was also used in this project. K.p.a. it's a law about, I would say, a huge practical significance for citizens and offices. Hundreds, if not thousands, of citizens' affairs, including entrepreneurs, are settled in the administrative procedure per day. More than 80,000 are dealt with before administrative courts each year. complaints, of which as much as 20% - in favor of the parties. In my opinion, this is a very high percentage of cases that the administration actually loses in court. This shows that many cases are simply led by the administration in an improper way, i.e. errors, either substantive or procedural. In fact, the regulations that ensure the efficiency of the authorities and guarantee the protection of the legitimate rights of the parties are such an ideal, but also the foundation of modern administration - an administration that responds to the needs of citizens and at the same time protects the public interest. This is also the starting point for building citizens' confidence in the authorities themselves, which certainly also has an impact on the tendency to invest and respect for legal order. Yeah, that's right. this is so important, and at the same time in my opinion so far in the context of the discussion on improving the legal environment of entrepreneurs, an underappreciated legal act, if I may put it this way, even though almost every entrepreneur has to deal with these regulations on a daily basis. In order to improve the quality of administration activities, and really the comfort of serving citizens, including entrepreneurs, the project aims to solve three problems. First of all, the recognition of administrative matters is taking too long today. In a study conducted by PARP, as much as 78% entrepreneurs have indicated that this is an important problem for them. This concerns not only the duration of proceedings before individual authorities, but also the number of instances. This is due to an excessive number of so-called. casatorial decisions in relation to reformatory decisions. The same case can often be dealt with several times by the administrative authorities - once in the first instance, once in the second instance - before it finally goes to the administrative court. The reason, it seems, is also a model of procedure which assumes that before bringing an action against a decision before a court, it is necessary to bring an administrative action at all times. The same case is often dealt with several times by administrative authorities and courts. This also applies to cases where a decision is taken at first instance by central authorities, e.g. Minister, or self-government colleges of appeal. A party who is dissatisfied with the decision must submit a request for review by the same authority, although - and this is shown by the practice, the research chosen by us - the authorities very occasionally changed the decisions in this mode in a satisfactory manner of the addressee, the party. The conclusion is therefore, in fact, an action which does not lead to the settlement of the matter, merely a formal requirement to be fulfilled before the decision is brought before the court. Another problem - and I have already mentioned this - is the excess of casatorial decisions, that is, passing the case back to rediscovery. Notwithstanding the party's wish, the decision shall be revoked and the case referred to the body of first instance to be heard whenever it appears necessary in the appeal proceedings to investigate the material circumstances of the case. The procedures for questioning the decisions of the authorities are therefore currently insufficiently flexible and very formalised. In fact, today there is no way to adapt them to the real needs, the expectations of the participants in these proceedings. The second problem - it has actually already been discussed on this first aspect - is excessive formalism and very rigorously understood power in the application of administrative procedures. There is a lack of clear legal bases - and we know that administration works best when it has such a precise legal basis - to act on such more partnerly principles. Often, it is the practical functioning of a given authority that depends on whether the matter is dealt with more quickly or less slowly. The authorities also, acting formally, often fail to see the benefits that result from such an active involvement of the parties in the handling of the matter, and unfortunately, the obligation to inform about the facts and legal circumstances is purely formal. As a result, the party is surprised by the content of the decision and often does not understand the reasons for the decision being adopted by the authority. This in turn, of course, leads to appeal to subsequent instances. The third aspect to which we respond with this amendment is automation in the application of administrative penalties. This is a request, in science too, formulated for many years to put this issue in order. The current regulations generally do not allow the amount of the fine to be adjusted to the circumstances of a particular case. The authorities shall act in such a scheme: an infringement of the law - a fine in a rigid amount, or, if the penalty is determined by a quota range, a penalty which is most often punishable by that higher risk range. Therefore, penalties are often inadequately high in relation to the circumstances of the infringement of a particular provision. In many categories of cases there is a lack of rules that would allow the penalty to be fined or, because this should also be possible, will stop at instruction when the seriousness of the infringement is negligible. Again, such automation creates such a sense of social injustice and administrative penalties They are often more severe than criminal sanctions, which, I think, is a kind of paradox and not exactly a desirable situation. Therefore, if these three key or fundamental problems are taken into account - such as I mentioned - the project envisages solutions that will enable, firstly, speed up, streamlining administrative procedures, secondly, the creation of conditions for a more partnership between administration and citizens, which should in turn translate into a smaller scale of appeals and complaints to administrative courts, and, thirdly, ensuring that the administrative penalties applied are appropriate to infringements of the law. All these actions are part of the overall objective of increasing the efficiency of administration also in order to reduce administrative burden for citizens or even, more commonly speaking, bureaucratic mitręgi and to increase the sense that administration is from efficient, reliable but also fair handling of matters. Shortly defining the first objective within these three objectives of the solution, namely the smooth handling of administrative matters in order to improve the procedure, we propose, first of all, the possibility for the party to abandon those stages of the procedure which unduly and inefficiently extend it. We therefore assume that the party will be able to decide whether to take advantage of the request for review or to bring an action before the administrative court immediately, i.e. the request for review would be optional. We also propose that the party should have an impact on whether, if necessary, the case will be referred to the body of first instance for re-examination, or whether this additional investigation should be carried out by a second instance body, so that a final decision can be reached more quickly. As a general rule, if a party lodges a request, the authority will be required to make a reform decision according to this project. In addition, the project introduces a simplified way of challenging casatorial decisions - because without this mechanism the whole change will not be effective, i.e. it will not be effective - i.e. it will be possible to object to a casatorial decision and, contrary to the complaint, this objection will be recognised in the context of a summary procedure. The court will only assess whether the formal conditions for a casatorial decision are met, i.e. whether the appeal body was not in a position to resolve the matter in substance. In addition, in some sense we use the standards of the Civil Procedure Code, where such an institution worked, the court will be able to fine the authority, which should also reduce the number of cases too hastyly returned to the first instance by the appeal body. Nor will it be necessary to call on the authority to remedy the infringement before bringing an action before the administrative court against acts or acts for which the law does not provide for remedies, e.g. Resolutions of local authorities. Speeding up administrative procedures will also enable new, faster procedures for dealing with matters: so-called. Silent handling of the case and simplified procedure. We assume that these institutions will be applied in certain categories of cases which will be indicated in material laws. The project introduces such a model procedure of silence. We propose that the basic deadline for taking them out is a month. The failure of the authority to react within this time limit will result in the matter being dealt with as requested by the party. On the other hand, the simplified procedure is mainly dedicated to matters which are not factually and legally complicated. It shall restrict the investigation to the evidence submitted by the party to the request and the evidence at the disposal of the Authority. There are also strict requirements to justify the decision in this manner. Silent handling of the matter will also be a rule in the simplified procedure. A party who makes a complete application should therefore obtain a settlement within one month of the case being dealt with in that procedure. The introduction of such model procedures will be of great importance, in my opinion - systemic, because it will prevent the fragmentation of solutions within the institutions of administrative law, which are those institutions I am talking about, as is the case, for example. in the case of administrative penalties, where over the years the lack of general regulation has caused models - with regard to the way in which the law is created, i.e. in individual ministries - that each ministry has created its own premises, sometimes even in fact these issues have not been regulated at all. This can also be seen when trying to propose rules on penalties, how difficult it is today to find such common rules, so the introduction of such model institutions in the form of a silent settlement of the matter or a simplified procedure will, I think, serve to maintain greater coherence and logic of the rules to which it will be possible to refer in the material provisions. In addition to these solutions, we also propose simplifying formalities in cases where many parties participate. The draft provides that if more than 20 parties participate in the proceedings, it will be possible to notify them of the decision or other activities, e.g. the timing of the hearing, by posting information, for example, in the Public Information Bulletin of the Authority, provided, of course, that the parties have been given prior notice of such a form of notice. These solutions are complemented by the introduction of transparent rules to challenge inaction or the chronic conduct of proceedings with the use of urgency institutions. In order to improve this procedure, we propose a 7-day deadline to consider reminders and a few ordering changes, such as defining what inaction is. or chronicity. It is also practical to remove doubts as to the time when a complaint may be brought against the authorities for inactivity or chronicity. It will be an obligation to instruct the parties on the possibility of pressing if the proceedings are extended. At this second point, we expect that these solutions will contribute to a real shortening of administrative time. We know that, especially in the case of entrepreneurs, time is one of the most important assets of companies. The second objective - a partnership of administration towards citizens. Here, building openness and trust between the administration and the citizen requires changes in two basic areas. Firstly, which is an absolute novelty, so that it is possible to make greater use of amicable dispute resolution methods in administrative proceedings. Today we have such a procedure only in judicial proceedings. The aim is to shift the focus from the traditionally understood authority to the dialogue in the course of the settlement of the case, of course in accordance with the law. Mediation would have preceded the handling of the case. Secondly, in our view, it is necessary to amend and expand the catalogue of general principles, in particular to ensure that the ambiguities of rules or evidence collected do not have negative consequences for the parties. We propose that mediation should be allowed between the parties to the procedure and between the party and the body, and this is the element of novelty. First of all, this will allow for an amicable solution to the dispute between the parties, e.g. in neighbouring cases, it may be of great importance in complicated investment cases, but also in order for the authorities to explain more effectively to the parties all the circumstances of the case or to present certain aspects by the party itself to the body, which does not, of course, preclude the application of all other provisions, including an in-depth explanation of the factual and legal situation by the authority. Moreover, mediation is really one element of a larger whole, which we as the Ministry of Development are spreading here. We have changes in the creditor package that are conducive to this. I think that in a moment we will be going out with changes to the Labour Code, which in disputes between the employer and the employee will also spread mediation. This is also an initiative of the Social Dialogue Council, which we are taking together with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. It is also such an expression, I think, of a new approach to administration at all, but also administration to parties. Finally, we propose to modify the administrative settlement that has been in place for years so that the parties can reach out to it more often. On the other hand, as regards the general principles, here we are proposing, first of all, to introduce them into the c.p.a. principles of a friendly interpretation of the rules, ordering the resolution of factual doubts in favour of the party. Here, of course, we take the view that unclear rules or doubts about the facts should not have negative consequences for the party, for example, restrictions on its rights in the form of withdrawal of the permit. According to the project, in these cases this will be decided in favour of the party. The introduction of this principle to the c.p.a., I believe, is so important that in recent years we have such a strong tendency to transfer delinquency from the law of offences to administrative law and therefore these guarantees to the parties should be guaranteed to the same extent by administrative law as by the law of offences or criminal law. We propose to express it directly in the regulations of the C.P.A. the principle of legal certainty. In accordance with this principle, the Authority may waive established practice only if there are compelling reasons to do so. The aim is to eliminate such situations that, under the same circumstances, the body issues a different content to the different parties in the same legal state. We also propose supplementing the catalogue of general principles with the principle of proportionality, the principle of equality, the principle of the impartiality of bodies. The inspiration for adopting such rules is, among others. The European Code of Good Administrative Practice. All of these principles constitute a list of specific directives that authorities will have to follow in everyday life, most importantly, in practice, will be a source of responsibility for bodies on the one hand and, on the other hand, a real guarantee for the parties to the proceedings. Like I said, they're supposed to shape this new picture, a new culture of administrative work. Of course, we realize that before we know the full results, some of this time will have to go by. As far as the finals are concerned, I would like to say that the project also includes the concreteisation of information obligations, which should also increase the activity of the authorities in the proceedings and contribute again to the fact that there will be fewer appeals, i.e. more cases will be dealt with at first instance, because it will be the authority that will have to inform the party about what conditions it did not fulfil. Target three, in short, are administrative penalties. Here we have general rules for imposing them, granting reliefs, and even in certain situations the obligation to waive punishment. We hope that with these provisions penalties will be adequate to the extent of the infringement. Today it is different, there are such signals from different people, mainly from entrepreneurs, because it is the main recipient of conversations. They're disproportionate today, illogical. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above arguments, I request that this proposal be adopted for further parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u165	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on Seym Printing 1183. It is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. In the first words, I would like to thank the applicants, in particular Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mariusz Halady, for making such a big change and so much work that they have done. It should be emphasized that for a decade now, none of the ministers, either internal affairs or development, have been tempted to undertake or have undertaken work on something that is a constitution for the Polish administration, on the Code of Administrative Procedure. This project, which has been submitted today - this is what it looks like - it is, you can say, several dozen pages - contains a number of profound changes regarding the Code of Administrative Procedure and other laws. It must raise respect, because it has done a great deal of work, gathering the opinions of the codification committees, the opinions of local governments, entrepreneurs, and all those who are interested in ensuring that the Polish administration operates in a efficient, reliable and citizen-friendly manner. The Code of Administrative Procedure, as I mentioned, is a constitution for public administration. How important is that? We must take into account that in the Polish public administration, whether we like it or not, several hundred thousand officials work. Some sources say 500,000, others say 700,000, depending on whether it's a central administration, government administration or government administration. local government. All these officials apply the Code of Administrative Procedure when making decisions, when dealing with the affairs of citizens, all citizens, including entrepreneurs. It is the state and quality of our country that depend on what instruments they have, on how quickly, how efficient, how reliably these tens of thousands of officials resolve matters each day. Our country's image in the eyes of its citizens depends on it. This code, these amendments, which you have prepared by Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, contain a number of completely new and innovative solutions which, in my opinion, have the chance to lead to the fact that the Polish administration will indeed be a modern, fast and efficient administration. Many of these solutions are solutions that result in the citizen being served as soon as possible by the public administration, so that his case is resolved as soon as possible, with respect, of course, of all the principles that result from the Code of Administrative Procedure. So here we have institutions related to the speed of proceedings, to inspiring the confidence of citizens, mediation institutions. All these institutions are intended to serve the speedy and efficient resolution of cases by the Polish public administration. It is difficult to get divorced at this stage, in a five-minute speech or position, about all these institutions, but it is important to stress that many of them are drawn from other legal systems in which they have worked. Many of these institutions are new institutions, and I hope that during the work of the committee we will also discuss the advantages of these institutions, and we will also discuss all the effects that can be achieved, as a result of the future application of these changes by the public administration. To sum up, this is a major amendment that is going in a very good direction, and I think it can have a significant impact on the functioning of our country. If all these institutions work in practice, and I am so convinced that they will work, our country will indeed become a modern state, whose public administration will address citizens and resolve in an efficient, fast and reliable manner all the matters that affect this administration. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed amendment. We request that this amendment be addressed to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like us to adopt this amendment as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u167	Thank you, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. The material to be developed for evaluation is very extensive, i.e. 30 pages of the project, a legal text, more than 90 pages of justification, you can still look at different opinions, etc. Since I only have 5 minutes, at the moment 4 minutes, I will only allow myself to formulate a general assessment and identify a few specific problems. The overall assessment of this extensive project is positive. The aim of the project is to improve and, as it seems, to improve administrative procedures and is also on track to improve citizens' confidence in administrative authorities. A new approach to penalties should also be assessed positively. It is good that some solutions have been modelled on previous regulations of the Tax Order, which correspond to those found in the Code of Administrative Procedure. I would also like to say that the project is characterised by a high level of substance. Legal language, technology and legislative culture are also highly appreciated, and justification is good. The legal text indicates a professional workshop, a very good workshop. Can you have any comments on this text? Yeah, he's so extensive, he gives birth to different reflections. A positive assessment deserves the introduction of rules for a party-friendly interpretation. A similar principle has recently been introduced in the Tax Order. We read in the project that if the subject of administrative proceedings is to impose an obligation on the party or restrict or remove the party's right, and in the case of doubts arise, these doubts are resolved in favour of the party. This is very important. And I'm... I was talking about a pattern in the form of ordination, and I'm not referring to the further ones, the others, the truth, the areas of law, because it's clear. Ladies and gentlemen, what we read in the article is also important. 8 § 2, i.e. that public authorities do not depart from established practice of resolving cases in the same factual and legal situation without a legitimate reason. If you look at practice, it's an extremely important matter. However, it is a pity that this established practice has not been defined here. In ordination, we have a more specific term for what this established practice is. Such a definition would better serve these objectives. Art. 49 and Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 49a - this is what the Minister said - but it may raise doubts as to whether sufficient protection of the parties to proceedings is ensured in the case of the parties' notification of decisions in the You can also find e.g. Article 2 79a § 1, a text that I fully judge highly, but it is a text that is unclear. In all, it should be hoped that these solutions, or at least their [[♪ The bell ♪]] Most of it...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u169	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski from the Kukiz club15 will now speak. [[The thought should have been allowed to end.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u170	It's gonna work. I wanted to add that in practice they'll work, but I'm already...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on printing No 1183, i.e. the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. Referring to Mr Nykiel's positive assessment of the government project from the Platform, I think it is safe to say that I am dreaming. After all, when I listened to the Minister, I had this idea, I wondered if it was a dream or if it was really happening. I felt that this country, that the Minister is talking about the normal state, about the normal state, about the normal administrative law in which the citizen is an entity and which he is to make, to give tools, to give powers to authorities, to public officials to act in the interests of citizens. This is amazing. It has already been said from this speaker that for some years we have found ourselves in this legal state, administrative law - hostile, dry, hard, which has caused many citizens to bounce from the wall, while losing their wealth, sometimes their whole life. The first point is to measure penalties. One might ask: Why hasn't there been such a small legislative amendment for so many years? After all, there are a number of regulations, for example in building law, completely absurd, and citizens must persist, hide. Some action taken earlier, illegal... They can't legalize, for example. the investments undertaken, as this will involve, today this entails the need to bear huge, going into tens of thousands of zloty penalties. I mean, if you were to measure it... Of course, we can say that ignorance of the law is harmful, but if you are to act against the citizens according to this principle, that is so-called. a state predator state, a country hostile to a citizen, and a country friendly to a citizen should encourage this citizen, explain to him, guide him wherever he can. We often see that the state wants to lead the consumer. Many economic legislation favours the consumer, so maybe it is worth to finally have a privileged position today in confronting officials, offices, and, going further, maybe it is worth changing this system so that the citizen does not have to confront officials, just so that, for example. He could have worked with them so that the officials would finally have these tools. What do we learn from this project? The introduction of simplified procedures, mediation, possibility of settling, already mentioned fine-tuning. It turns out that there are a number of simple solutions that, of course, require a change of many rules, but this can be done. It turns out that it is possible, and it is not necessary to overturn the entire system of Polish law, so that the State can - in a significant area, because administrative proceedings, the multitude of these cases, are in principle applicable to every citizen directly or indirectly. So, if it is possible, as Mr Nykiel said, on several dozen pages of such an amendment, which will actually make this country more friendly, that the state administration will be more friendly to the citizen, then there is nothing left but to sign up for it with both hands. But what is important today is that we have the first reading, so the Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members the support of this project, directing it to work in committee so that during work in committee some nuances can be refined, perhaps wondering if there is anything more worth adding to these provisions, it can improve something. On the other hand, I stress this once again, we judge the project in an absolutely positive way and we are glad that this type of project finally appeared in the plenary room. Well? We're counting on more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u172	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 1183. Indeed, we are dealing with a very significant revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The fact is that these rules have not been amended for many years. It should also be stressed in this submission that, unlike other laws, this submission has indeed been subject to a very broad public consultation and the comments from these consultations have been taken into account to a large extent. It is all the more surprising that such a serious bill in such a sudden manner is brought to the proceedings of the High House. I only hope here, referring to what Mr Mularczyk, chairman of the codification committee, was talking about, that we will proceed quickly, but very honestly, not in a hurry, because I do not think that this project requires enough haste to be adopted as it has been before. I just hope for a solid job in the Extraordinary Commission for codification, because this project actually deserves it. Solutions to speed up administrative procedures and to make greater use of the principle of convincing citizens to govern administrative authorities in administrative proceedings deserve approval in this project. The introduction of a general rule for the settlement of legal doubts and the rules for the settlement of factual doubts in favour of the party in cases in which an obligation is to be imposed on the party or whether its powers are to be taken away, including the introduction of a principle of legal certainty or proportionality in administrative proceedings, should therefore be welcomed. It is also worth noting in principle the whole package of solutions aimed at amicable consideration of the case, including the wider use of mediation or the relaxation of the rules on administrative settlement. Positive assessments also deserve solutions for speeding up and redeploying administrative procedures through the introduction of rules on inter alia. the silent handling of the matter or the simplified procedure. We also meet very often in the administration - here too I confirm what the Minister said - that we have excessive casatorial decisions. The authorities assume that there is no reason to settle the matter in substance, since we are delaying the substantive adoption of the position by means of a casatorial decision. Therefore, the opposition, i.e. the possibility for the administrative court to assess this type of action more quickly, I hope, will actually have the desired effects. There is a great deal of these solutions, but I will also draw attention to one positive solution to the rules on administrative penalties. Of course, it is possible to choose here, whether necessarily in the Code of Administrative Procedure, maybe in the Public Finance Act or in a separate law, but the fact is that it is good that these rules are, because they will actually help administrative authorities to implement this principle of proportionality of administrative action. And at the end of the day, a big spoon for that honey that's been here the whole time. You are changing or proposing an amendment to the article in this project. 15 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, so you assume that you will depart from the principle of duality in administrative proceedings. That is the assumption, all the more so because if we follow the transitional provisions, it is in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 you also set a two-year deadline for the Ministers to verify each administrative procedure. That's what you're assuming. I would like to point out that, of course, consensual ways of solving cases are very important, but this will not always work, so it is important that citizens also have the opportunity to verify the decisions taken in the first instance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] through a two-instant procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u174	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u175	Therefore, the Posel Club Modern addicts the support of this bill, the whole of this work...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u177	...just since the change in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Pampuch said very interesting things here, so he does not need to be interrupted. I think it is important that today we carry out this discussion on the Code of Administrative Procedure in a fair and honest manner - just as all the proceedings so far, the preparation of this project by Minister Haladyj, and this is difficult and, let me put it simply - this is a long-term work by the Minister, which I think everyone here today has expressed in their speeches. The Code of Administrative Procedure applies to practically every citizen, every entrepreneur, every institution, company, so this is a very important, important thing because it regulates our daily lives. These changes that have been proposed are very far-reaching. There are a lot of these changes, these are very important changes, especially when looking at entrepreneurs, with regard to parties, speeding up procedures, processing, reducing penalties, etc. I think that honest, honest work in committee should lead us to have good solutions. This is one of the better proposals, I would say, in relation to what has often been proposed here, submitted. It is a well-prepared project, but of course doubts are as always and they will be discussed. It is important that this discussion is substantive, not political, because the Code of Administrative Procedure It's not just for today, it's supposed to serve in the future. I will not go into details because I think that any solution, any proposal will be discussed and analysed in detail at the committee meeting. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work and will support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u179	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch is the first to ask questions, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the provisions on the possibility of introducing reminders, you also take into account the possibility of applying this reminder after exceeding the deadlines under Article. 35 Code of Administrative Procedure or Article. 36, so this is about the situation where the administration sets an additional deadline for the case. Isn't there some kind of dissonance involved here? However, since I can already post the deadline in the article. 35 bring in a reminder, whether or not I'm gonna... I'm not gonna take advantage of it, then what's the point of this article. Thirty-six, so an additional time limit for the case? I would simply ask for justification, because I did not read it, I did not find it in the draft - the justification for this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u181	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Halady for this project. It is indeed part of a larger set of rules to restore citizens' confidence in the state. Intricate procedures and ambiguities make people, citizens often feel harmed by the state, feel that the state does not support them. I wanted to ask how penalties will be imposed after the law enters into force so that they are appropriate to the case and do not cause a sense of harm. And I also wanted to ask if any simulations were made, if the time for administrative proceedings has been reduced after the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u183	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to refer to this article. 15, which was mentioned here by the Member. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify whether the proposed project definitively eliminates the principle of duality, or rather introduces the right to use one of the parties or both. I ask you, sir, to refer again to this article. 15 and explained exactly how the proposed amendment is about to regulate the issue of duality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Haladyj corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. Minister, you've explained everything very extensively, but please answer these three questions briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u186	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you so much for accepting our project so friendly. I am pleased that you have just drawn out the essence of this project and our main intentions. I'll get to the questions, maybe I'll start from the end. Mrs April asked... [[It's about this article. 15.]] ...or are we eliminating the principle of duality, and Mr Pampuch also said this in his speech. Of course, we don't eliminate that rule. In a way, really. This is a confirmation of the state of play that we already have, and there are already some proceedings in which there is really no appeal. We here, too, in two cases of this challenge, so to speak, make it more flexible... [[Right.]] ...which means it's about reconnaissance. We can see for ourselves that in practice it doesn't actually have any effect, that's almost a micro-percent in the areas we've been looking at. There's no point in blocking the whole thing for a month or so. Let us also remember that the principle of duality relates primarily to the right of the party. This is not - I don't know - the authority's competence to double-examine a given case, but this is the party's prerogatives. And it should really be up to her to decide whether or not she wants to bring that body back to the table. And that's what we're coming out of, and that's how we understand the duality principle. However, no provision, of course, which is in the submission today, eliminates the appeal path in any procedure. As for Mrs Michalek's question, how will the penalties be imposed so that they do not cause a sense of harm, we have created a catalogue of indications that will determine the amount of the penalty imposed, and they will, of course, also be judicially verifiable, because this is also a natural effect of this kind of solution. As regards the fulfilment of these conditions, possibly in such a way as later verified by the court, this will result in the adequacy of those penalties to the extent of the infringement. Because if the party does not agree with the amount of the penalty, it will be possible, on precise grounds, to bring an action against it. Today it is completely free, and even freely, I would say. Even more appropriate in this case is the word "relevance" than "freedom." We also propose grounds for withdrawal and compulsory and optional. How long will it take? Here we would have to talk about specific proceedings, because it is impossible to say in general, if administrative proceedings were to be shortened at all, because their diversity, diversity of complexity is so that, so to speak, rich that we are certainly not able to adopt such a rule for all proceedings. Here we would have to go into individual actions. The simplest thing I think is respect for, for example. those proceedings where we have a re-examination or a request to remedy the infringement. Because here we eliminate the whole procedure, which is the few months we take it off. Mr Pampuch still asked about the article. Thirty-six, urgency... [[35.]] ...art. Thirty-five, urgency. I don't know if it's okay here. Got it. Alternatively, we will be happy to provide explanations at the committee meeting or at the working procedure. We generally mean that the body's apparent actions do not cause the institution of urgency to be actually unarmed and thus not be effective, i.e. that the body should be appointed by e.g. the new deadline did not mean that the party would again have to wait for the whole carousel to pass, and only then would it be possible to apply again. So the point is not to create a risk that's too easy, so to speak, an organ slips out of this new solution. As I say, with regard to possible explanations on our part, related to the article. 15, with bi-instance - as I say, here we do not aim to eliminate bi-instance - this is what we serve as an explanation at the committee meeting. Once again, thanking you for the positive adoption of the project, of course, we declare our full work within the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u187	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. This project is another element of the business facilitation package - 100 changes for companies prepared by the Ministry of Development - a package aimed at helping entrepreneurs by reforming the existing strict rules that constitute barriers to business activity. After its adoption in December, the so-called: a deregulation law designed to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs I welcome the draft second law from the package that we are discussing today, concerning changes to the administrative procedure - changes which it seems necessary at this point to make the state work for the benefit of people, not just so far, that people work for the benefit of the state. Among these changes, I can first of all mention a friendly interpretation of the rules and the settlement of doubts in favour of the citizen. The principle of legal certainty and the abandonment of too extensive requirements and burdens in cases where they have no logical justification will have a significant impact on the quality of life in general, the way in which we make decisions and the tendency of our citizens to develop, among others. their businesses. This will make it much easier to raise awareness and certainty of Poles and increase their willingness to take action. I also consider it extremely beneficial to introduce the possibility of resolving disputes through mediation. This gives the possibility to resolve misunderstandings with the help of a third party, professionally prepared for this task. Among a number of changes aimed at improving administration and speeding up current procedures, although all changes are worth mentioning, I think it is worth mentioning the possibility of silent handling, which will be of particular benefit to our citizens. This is a regulation that forces faster action and handling of cases and excludes situations in which, despite the time laid down by law, an administrative decision is awaited indefinitely, which may result in e.g. The paralysis of the investment. Another type of solution concerns the administrative adequacy of monetary penalties. Regulation of these records, I hope, will eliminate situations in which, for example. for cutting out a rotten tree that threatens the lives and health of people, citizens receive a financial penalty that ruins them financially. About Free and Solidarnia, seeing a good future in the proposed project, asks for further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u189	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws, contained in print No 1183, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims (print No 1185). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill. [[You're having a hard time today.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! Once again, I am standing before you, this time presenting a project that aims to facilitate the recovery of claims. This is again part of the package prepared in the Ministry, so-called. a package of 100 changes for companies. I think that as regards the importance of liquidity for companies, the impact of liquidity on the market situation of such companies, the potential for further growth of companies is not here It needs to be developed. We are well aware of the importance of liquidity for businesses and what is causing complications in payments. Unfortunately, a large percentage of companies are still complaining about the problem of congestion caused by the late settlement of debts by counterparties. Of course, these effects are felt by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as industries are concerned, the construction industry and the transport industry are most affected. Thus, the State should create such legal infrastructure that creditors have effective legal instruments to counter this phenomenon both at the stage of redress before and after the stage of enforcement after judicial proceedings. Above all, however, here we are focusing our attention at the stage of entering into business relations with a partner or a potential partner who does not guarantee payment of this debt, i.e. at such a stage as to prevent delays in payments before the transaction takes place, so that we do not treat later, so as to really limit the consequences of non-payment. We provide for changes in 10 laws. We focus on these three main objectives. First of all, it is about allowing reliable and complete information on the reliability of the potential counterparty or already the debtor in order to allow the creditor to better assess the ability of that partner to settle new obligations, secondly, to streamline the investigation and to secure claims before the court. Thirdly, increasing the chances of debt enforcement. In order to achieve the first objective, we propose changes in the functioning of economic information offices and the creation of a Register of Public Claims. And as I said at the beginning, this is actually the main goal, I think, on which, you can say, this amendment or this project is focused. We assumed that time is actually crucial for recovery, and that the best chances are within the first 3 months of the maturity of the debt. Then they automatically fall down to 10%. , when this maturity is at least 3 years old. At that time, the level of recovery is already gradually lower and lower. With this philosophy, we wanted to create tools for a better assessment of the potential counterparty's ability to pay. In order to do so, economic information offices will be able to provide information to the person asking about the data collected in other offices as well. So the offices will have to exchange de facto these data. What discourages the use of these offices today is that each office needs to be performed separately. Offices will also have more information that they can share with the respondents. In addition, offices will be given the opportunity to create so-called. Predictive models, i.e. such analyses of future possible payment behaviours of the entrepreneur, because we do not apply this solution to consumers based on information collected by these offices. We also shorten the deadline after which you can declare your commitment to the office from 60 to 30 days, but at the same time we also pay great attention to ensuring the protection of the legitimate rights of debtors. And here there is a balance in this project, because we introduce rules for debtors to question the information submitted to the office, introduce an institution or propose to introduce an institution to object to the entry, but also after the entry already entered in the office, or update and delete entries, but also for example. a catalogue of circumstances which will be required by the office or creditor to take specific actions related to the entry made. The Office will also be required to inform the debtor of the acceptance of the obligation as expired. In addition, there will be a limited time limit on the possibility of transmitting information on consumer obligations to offices and disclosures and, finally, incorrect entries on the debtor will be regarded as an act of unfair competition or delict. So that I think that here these solutions have a balance in looking at the interests of the creditor, but also securing the legitimate rights of the debtor. And the Register of Public Claims. We enter a register where the entrepreneur, the citizen will be able to check the possible arrears towards the tax office or local government units which, as I will stress, are already subject to execution and the sum of which is at least 5 thousand, so that there will not be entered debts found to be illegal yet by decision, only those that are fit for execution and whose debtor has been prejudiced. The register will be kept in the IT system by the head of the National Tax Administration. The data, which is also important, will not be made public, they will only be available to the questioner. We also provide, of course, legal remedies: the debtor's opposition to an irregular entry in the register. Thus, with this additional information, we increase the safety of economic turnover. And, I don't know, it can be interesting information in the context of the assessment of this solution also that the inspiration for its preparation together with the Ministry of Finance, because it was prepared in this way, were the demands of the entrepreneurs themselves, who said that: what I know that X is behind with Y's company, or rather: it doesn't fail, since if this company has certain tax claims towards the Treasury, then I know that it will not pay me, because most debtors, however, primarily regulate public debt. Thus, this is important information for the creditor if his potential counterparty does not pay public debt. So that, as I say, this is a request from entrepreneurs themselves who are having trouble assessing the reliability of their counterparties.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u191	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: And I'm just going to list the investor's liability to the contractor. Finally, I think that we are regulating, in a clear way, the conclusion by public entities of settlements in civil matters, which also entails a little bit of this project, which I was talking about, are also changes in judicial proceedings, first of all we are increasing the threshold that can be reached in simplified proceedings, or finally changes in group proceedings, so that they actually exist, and finally we have a change in two proceedings that protects, enforces, so that these claims can be pursued more effectively at this stage too. So that we tried to look at this process fairly comprehensively - from considering the conclusion of the contract, to when we have a case winning in court and we are already getting dues in enforcement proceedings. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Barbara Bubula on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are just beginning to work on an extremely important new legislation. Although it concerns changes in existing laws, their gathering in a single legal act was, of all intents and purposes, a legal act aimed at ensuring greater security of business, especially for the weakest players in the market, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with great hope and certainty that these changes are good, takes concrete and comprehensive measures proposed by the government to protect creditors' rights and facilitate the investigation of payment from unfair counterparties. The very list of difficult cases that the government project faces is so rich that it is difficult to fit into a five-minute club performance. I think that the basic work on this project will be carried out in committee or committees, that there we will examine very carefully each of the changes proposed by the government. However, there is no doubt that the lack of confidence in the counterparty in view of the large number of late-invoiced invoices, unpaid work invoices, especially in the construction and transport sectors, the fact that the courts are inefficient, slow-down in debt recovery by creditors are extremely important problems of our economic life. We therefore have a very high level of frozen capital, without liquidity, because the state has for many years been very weakly protecting honest companies, honest citizens. As a result of this situation are numerous bankruptcies of small and medium-sized companies unable to afford many months or even many years of waiting for recovery of the due payment. A very large number of entrepreneurs are afraid to invest, this is a very important economic phenomenon, because they are forced to operate very carefully with capital. Entrepreneurs need to keep a safe, high turnover balance in their company, because they can never be sure that they will receive a fee for the work done, sometimes in hundreds of thousands of zlotys. This in particular hampers those industries where very large contracts are carried out requiring huge amounts to be involved. This also hampers innovation and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, there is a very important and painful problem of ease in the transfer of assets by dishonest debtors and thus avoiding the fulfilment of obligations towards creditors, especially against the weakest small companies. The draft law, which is worth pointing out, also signalled by the Minister in his speech, also introduces rules to protect against unfairly prosecuting non-existent or exaggerated claims and protects both companies and consumers from strong entities trying to claim non-existent debts from them. The need to change the very bad situation in this area is very much needed, as as much as 10% Invoices regulated are delayed more than 90 days, i.e. government justification data, 10% business litigation takes more than 3 years and the average length of proceedings is 14 months. This already average 14 months very often means for a small company the need to close business, fire employees and the collapse of a prosperous company, let alone in the construction industry, where unpaid debts are also data from reasons, the stock exchange companies themselves amount to over PLN 4 billion. It is important to assess very positively the provisions providing for facilitation of free access to debtor data, where the amount from which such data is entered is also determined. We also welcome the broadening of information on public-law commitments, as the Minister stressed, in the first place. We hope to welcome these provisions, which will take into account better data exchange between economic information offices, which is why it is very good that the government also proposes to modify the provisions of the Civil Code on Art. 647 in view of the extensive judicial case law that indicates the need to better protect the interests of subcontractors in the construction industry. It is also appropriate to increase the main value of the subject matter of the dispute under consideration in simplified proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. It is worth noting that the government project also protects the rights of those who are wrongly accused of being indebted. These goals are the perfect fulfillment of the Law and Justice Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u193	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of our club regarding the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the recovery of claims. Let me just remind you that this project, such a project was prepared in the previous term of the Sejm, was in the final phase of the agreement. I think the few months are a little lost, because we were able to work on this project right after the start of this term, but we are very happy that this work continues. High Izbo! The first idea of this project is to strengthen the rights, guarantees for creditors, which are to be implemented by new provisions, e.g. by increasing access to up-to-date information on a possible new counterparty or its financial condition, allowing for an appropriate assessment of the risk associated with the conclusion of the contract. It will simply be a warning against cooperation and possible security of future payments, because we know how time-consuming and at the same time costly it is to take action to enforce payment after contracts already made. We are also aware of the size, scale of the debt. I know that the biggest problem with payment is in the construction industry. As it was mentioned, these amounts are in the order of PLN 4 billion, so they are huge amounts. It is also worrying that the number of claims and recovery cases is increasing from year to year. We also know that the time of such processes is measured in months, that such processes last several months, and even that they last several years, which, of course, affects the financial condition of the company and is a factor that hinders not only the current activity but, of course, its systematic development. An important issue that has been included in this project is the possibility for entities with public resources to resolve disputes through a settlement. Usually, in such cases, a decision is given to the justice system, even knowing that a trial can be lost. The settlement takes place in very few cases, which of course extends the time of the creditor's receipt of payment, whether from the State Treasury or from the local government unit. Another issue that will be modified by these provisions are the rules and regulations that ensure the protection of the investor and the subcontractor as participants in the construction process. The draft also includes provisions on simplified procedures, an increase in the value of the subject matter of the dispute in these proceedings. Another point I want to develop is the provisions on the scope of matters recognised in group proceedings. They are an attempt to address the problems and interpretation doubts that arise in the practice of using redress in these proceedings. We find there provisions for extending the scope of this application of redress in these proceedings, harmonising the level of the claims sought or the length of group proceedings, which should, however, accelerate and improve the recognition of cases in these proceedings. Unfortunately, only the opinion of the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland was attached to this project, there are no other very important opinions. At least the opinion of the Data Protection Officer General should appear. These opinions are necessary in the further process of this project. I believe such opinions will appear. As I mentioned, this project was being prepared during the previous term of office. We are very pleased that the work is being continued and we, as the Parliamentary Club, accept the direction of the changes proposed in this project and are in favour of further proceding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, print No 1185. It seems that this law can significantly improve the ability to recover from unfair counterparties. The Act provides for the establishment of a register in which information on claims will be entered. First of all, it is the Register of Public Claims. In principle, this register is prepared so that both government units, tax offices, customs offices and local authorities can enter those entities that are overdue in the Register of Public Claims. I hope that the weight will be spread evenly, i.e. that those entities, private entities will also be able, on the basis of economic information and inclusion in the list of debtors on similar terms, to enter such claims quite quickly and efficiently. Payment congestion in Poland is a peril of enterprises, and it is not only large but mostly small and medium-sized ones, because they are vulnerable to liquidity loss, to problems with obtaining additional credit. So that in our view these actions are absolutely right. Some attempts have been made previously, for example, to limit the maximum payment deadline on invoices. They have also improved the situation to some extent, but the point is that debt can be recovered as soon as possible, because we know from practice that the longer this period is, the less chance of recovery. The fact is that most of the arrears - we remember huge congestion and problems - is in construction companies, especially when it comes to subcontractors in the construction of motorways and expressways. They have led to a very large number of bankruptcies. It is good that this law also provides for forms of protest, because there are companies who unfairly apply for reimbursement. Therefore, the parties will be able to protest. Access to information for operators will be provided by economic information offices. We believe that this is a good institution that can transmit such data, and that it will be able to handle certain things. As far as the entire bill is concerned, as has already been said, it has been going on for some time. It is good that at the moment this draft law has taken such a form that it can be subjected to the procedure in the Sejm. We are convinced that this law will help to improve the situation of Polish companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, the club Modern will support actions, work so that this law can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Applause]] I thought it was a round of applause for me, and it's a late round of applause, Mr. Marshal. The attempts to regulate, to civilise the issue that we are talking about today, at this moment, have been made several times. This shows that it is not easy or easy, because always in the economic market, there are different companies in the economic space, different sneaky people, cheaters, bush companies, but also different economic conditions, which undoubtedly sometimes in the case of even a very good, honest company can cause financial problems. Things are starting to pile up, there's financial backlogs, companies are falling. That's what's causing it, too. This causes avalanche consequences in relation to other companies, other companies, so here this work must be continuous and there must be improvement of methods, and above all providing information, which will not completely prevent this problem. But such a detailed analysis regarding the capture of these dishonest entrepreneurs, dishonest companies or companies, from which you can expect some surprises to risk... Because there are always risks in business. When concluding a contract, when entering into a contract, when switching to a specific activity, the trader takes the risk and this risk will always occur. It is important to minimise this risk. And it is good that the Minister is taking these actions, although they have already been initiated. I think that's the right thing to do. In CEIDG we also have what was once introduced, a form of access to information about the entrepreneur, so that the interested person can enter and check, at least in part, the reliability of this company. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will support these solutions, further work on this project, as well as other solutions that would allow Polish entrepreneurs to avoid such unpleasant, uninteresting surprises that occur, although the subject, as I said, is very difficult, 100% He can't be eliminated. It's important to minimize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u199	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska from the Civic Platform Club. [[How many minutes, Marshal?]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u200	Jesus, that's even... So I have a question to the Minister: Did you intend to work on the land law, which, in the area of debt enforcement, in many cases by establishing the area criterion, does not give a chance to recover debt from small, even 31-acre properties, i.e. from the plot, and tells the bailiff to execute from the property, e.g. from the apartment, causing extra trouble? If micro-entrepreneurs investigate their payment, this debt recovery will be extremely difficult. I look forward to action and revision in this area, and I think that when we discuss this solution in committee, we will be convinced that there is also a need for changes in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u201	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u202	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this information that will be collected by the economic information offices. They will be collected on the basis that creditors will report theirs, so to speak, pretensions, comment on the company. There is competition in economic space and this can happen, and it is nothing new that this information will be unreliable, dishonest. Of course, there may later be consequences for the applicant. But what if it's to the detriment of this company that it's reported to? Can these errors be corrected later? Are there mechanisms in the case of gathering - because it will be collected on the basis of some trust: I have [[♪ The bell ♪]] the basis, I report - if it is not entirely fair and fair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u203	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Many citizens report to me who say that they are wrongly entered in the debt register and that the office also does not always update the debtor register. I would like to ask: How will this bill improve the situation of citizens falsely reported in the debt register? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u205	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Barbara Bubula, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question about the interesting solution introduced by this law, so to allow the debtor to request that information on the actions carried out in the last 5 years be disclosed against the creditor. As regards the list of transfers of assets to third parties by a person who is in debt and thus prevents the transfer of money to the creditor, they are, of course, secured so-called. a Paulian complaint. I have a question for the Minister. In particular, how this list of transactions carried out in the form of transfers of assets to third parties will help to effectively cancel those contracts which are applied according to the so-called. Paulian complaint? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Haladyj, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, answers the questions. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you again for, as I read, the positive adoption of this project. Now, speaking of questions... Before I get to the questions, I still... Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska stressed twice that it was like the implementation of an old project and she also said about this loss of time. Since I have a certain institutional memory, I may have to refer to this, although only briefly. The project consists of seven components, i.e. BIG-i, debt register, group, subcontractors, security, enforcement, simplified and settlement. During the last term, we worked on one of these seven aspects, namely changes in economic information offices and on the drawing of public debts. None of these projects were adopted by the Council of Ministers, the draft law came to the Council of Ministers. We started basically working on them almost from the beginning, so it's not a project that - so to speak - lay down in the ministry and now we're pulling it out of the desks somewhere. Mr Kasprzak - I just wanted to stress what he said, and also to confirm in addition that really the problem of combating payment congestion is a complicated problem and there is no one solution to this problem, especially since dishonest operators, too, are still working, in quotes, innovatively, inventing new methods for robbing their counterparties. I also do not treat it so that this directory of solutions is a closed directory, and - as you said - there is certainly no project, there are no solutions that will clear up the problem of congestion. So here we definitely do. Indeed, as you have said, this is a project that aims to reduce the problem and, of course, also benefits from these years of experience. Krystyna Skowrońska asked about the land law. I mean, I have to answer briefly that here we are not amending this law, this is not the subject of this law. I do not know the problem that you have presented. I understand that it may be discussed in committee. Here, too, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is competent to involve them in this dialogue. [[In the title of corrigendum.]] Mr Kasprzak asked about the protection of the business, I understand, of debtors who were wrongly reported. This is also in line with Mrs Michalek's question, so I think it is possible to answer these questions together. I was talking about some of the solutions, but of course not everything in this short time could be said. I'm sure we'll talk about this on the committee. But yes: above all, there is civil and criminal liability towards those who unreliabilityally report their counterparties. In addition, between entrepreneurs it will be an act of unfair competition. We're introducing an institution of objection to the creditor... for the debtor, I'm sorry. We also introduce the possibility for the debtor to indicate that he considers the debt to be overdue. Finally, we are introducing a catalogue of circumstances that obliges both the creditor and the claimant of the claim, but also economic information offices to take a more active role in updating these entries and, however, to increase the requirements for the office and the creditor in fact so that they also better ensure that these entries are up-to-date and reliable. Like I said, liability is both civil and criminal. One last question, Madame. Mrs Bubula asked about the complaint, the enforcement procedure and the issue of this information. We today have an instrument in civil law in the form of a Paulian complaint - and this is what you have also said - but there are really no solutions that help to benefit from this institution from the Paulian complaint in a real way. It is practically impossible, or at least very, very difficult to obtain information about those activities which have been carried out against the creditor, and this information is necessary to initiate the Paulian complaint later. Therefore, this information in enforcement proceedings is intended to be used to obtain such information, which can then be used in the Paulian complaint. Of course, the failure to provide information and if this failure later had been verified negatively that the debtor had hidden e.g. This information, of course, is also a question of criminal liability. So this solution really serves to make the Paulian complaint real or activate the institution in a real way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u209	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[And as a corrigendum, Mr. Marshal, I asked for the floor.]] The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, contained in print No 1185, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection.]] ...I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] Thank you, there's an objection. [[Mr. Marshal, I asked for a corrigendum...]] We'll proceed with the examination of point 8... No, no, there's no need to straighten it out. The Minister explained everything very extensively. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal said so, and that's not true. Could you please...]] But this is not a discussion, Madam, these are the answers to questions. [[But if the Minister is telling the truth, then...]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (print No 1186). [[Where am I supposed to report a corrigendum, and who's gonna judge that?]] I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to ask you on the basis of which article you decided that my correction is not coming in because I have no right to rectify it.]] [[Because you felt misunderstood.]] There was no need to correct it, because there was no... You asked questions, and the Minister answered that question. Member, please leave the stand. Please don't interfere with the driving... [[But I wanted to correct the answers. The Minister's answer was wrong, he misunderstood my question.]] Then you can further develop this case. [[But you have no right to judge if I have the right to be corrected.]] Madam, you are interfering with the proceedings, and at the moment the Minister is presenting a bill. Thank you very much. [[I just wanted to ask you to tell me why you thought I had no right to be corrected.]] Because... [[I'd ask for an answer in writing.]] Yeah, okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project aims to introduce into Polish criminal law material and procedural, as well as implementing tools to improve the effectiveness, effectiveness of depriving criminals of the benefits of criminal offences. The purpose of the Act is to implement Directive 2014/42 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of tools for committing crime and the benefits of crime in the European Union. In principle, this project concerns five points. First of all, it extends the so-called. the extended infringement - not only the direct benefit of the offence, but also the indirect benefit, extends the possibility of a criminal offence without prior conviction in the event of redemption or suspension of proceedings, introduces provisions on the loss of an undertaking as a specific instrument for committing the offence, will safeguard the continuity of the firm's life in the event of a security of the imminent loss (so-called "the case'). the compulsory management), and finally introduces effective tools for the search for and disclosure of property at risk of loss. The obligation to introduce the possibility of forfeiture without conviction arises directly from Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Directive, which I have just mentioned, and will apply to perpetrators of significant value and to other serious offences at risk of imprisonment, the upper limit of which is not less than 5 years. The perpetrator will have to prove the legality of the property acquired within five years before the crime was committed. In answer to all kinds of questions and doubts about the relationship between the proposed rules and the presumption of innocence or the principle of protection of property, I would like to point out that these solutions already exist in at least 15 countries, among others. in the UK, Spain, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Belgium. They have been subject to the evaluation of the European Court of Human Rights on several occasions and the Court has found that the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has not been infringed. Confiscation without conviction is possible in case of remission for reasons of formal proceedings for serious crime, as well as suspension of proceedings due to illness or the escape of the perpetrator. This is a fundamental novelty, namely that we are introducing a detachment in the shape of what the European Court of Human Rights shows, as well as a directive... There is a break in the bond between liability and the legality of the origin of the property. The property, the way in which this property is acquired and ruled, has nothing to do with the question of the defendant's criminal liability for his alleged act. The obligation to introduce the possibility of forfeiture comes directly from the directive, as I have pointed out, and this confiscation has been examined on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights, which has not seen a breach of human and civil rights standards. The company's confiscation, the new designed tool, is used to bring justice to criminals who pretend to be entrepreneurs, but in fact they are unfair business people. And this dishonesty is qualified, i.e. here it is not enough to demonstrate a lack of special care, a lack of care, but it must be a concrete intention, and it must be a direct intention or a possible intention, linked to the involvement of the trader in the criminal activity carried out by a third party. This solution is limited only to enterprises owned by a natural person. The actions of criminals, as the practice shows, are detrimental not only to the Treasury, but above all to legitimate businesses or citizens, that I will mention only fraud in connection with VAT invoices or parabanking activities. The purpose of the regulation is not to take over the management of undertakings, but to deprive the perpetrator of the instrument of committing the offence or its benefits. The perpetrator often does not have any assets formally, which limits the effectiveness of criminal sanctions against him, and despite his conviction, he still has the opportunity to benefit from this asset. This property is the basis for its further criminal activity, it continues to do so thanks to this property, and therefore it is necessary to cut it absolutely and basically from these criminal roots. Then an important element is the confiscation of the company - as I mentioned - belonging to a third party. Namely, if the owner or any other person empowered by not only failing to observe the precautions required under the circumstances, but also the specific intention of a possible undertaking were to agree or directly wish that the undertaking was intended to commit the offence, then such confiscation is an option. This solution is limited only, as I mentioned, to companies owned by a natural person. They should be expected to maintain such standards as I mentioned. If someone wants or agrees to have a third party use his company for criminal activity, then there is absolutely no reason for this company to continue serving that owner so that he can continue to have it and continue to use it. The solutions proposed are absolutely far from any automation in judgment. First of all, the security issues are characterized by the fact that we raise the standard in relation to the general security mode. Namely, it's not a prosecutor, but the court will decide in case of company security. Implementation - as I have just said - of the canons designated by the European Court of Human Rights, as well as the EU directive obliges us to introduce such solutions. Let me just briefly mention some indirect solutions that are regulated by the way. The Act also introduces changes in the field of operational control, namely imposing an obligation on law enforcement authorities, in particular on the Police, to disclose property at risk of loss as one of the objectives of operational and research activities and extends the scope of operational control by the Police - among others. By the police, criminal offences against the justice system, so that the confiscation of the offence will take place as a result of an earlier analysis of criminal activities as a result of the prior work of criminal groups. Therefore, such additional changes are also necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u211	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Daniel Milewski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Is it worth stealing? Morality and decency give us a clear answer: no. For millennia many civilizations have made a commandment: do not steal as one of the foundations of justice. But life shows that a thief can count on a perspective, for example. A 2-year sentence, if he knows that after he's released, he will be able to use his loot, which is often a multiple of the amount of money he could earn fairly at that time. The draft law passed by the government aims to introduce into Polish criminal law substantive, procedural and implementing changes improving the effectiveness of mechanisms to deprive criminals of the benefits of committing criminal offences. The current regulation is insufficient and the proposed regulation should therefore deprive the perpetrators of a certain category of crime of financial resources that are an economic basis for their further criminal activity. The responsibility of the perpetrators of a particular type of crime, dangerous crimes, must not be limited to punishment. It is also necessary for them not to be able to use the assets acquired by criminal means and thus to be deprived of the financial basis for continuing this activity. The social interest requires a strong legislative response, which positively checks the government's proposed solutions in this regard. The proposed amendments also address increasing the efficiency of the loss of property in relation to particularly serious economic offences committed by an undertaking which is an instrument of action. It is envisaged that such an undertaking may be disposed of, even if it is not the property of the perpetrator. The project extends the scope for applying a loss based on the transfer of the burden of proof, as well as introducing in certain situations the possibility to rule on the loss of the proceeds of crime despite the existence of obstacles to a conviction. The fact that an undertaking is not the property of the perpetrator effectively prevents or significantly impedes the fight against such crime, and certain particularly serious economic offences may be committed through the use of existing undertakings, both those engaged in legitimate economic activities and additionally used for criminal purposes, as well as those created exclusively for the purpose of committing the crime. The draft law also includes changes in the European arrest warrant and extradition procedure and the application of the so-called. the impunity clause in relation to the crime of bribery resulting from the international obligations of Poland. As Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the bill we have tabled is positive and we will support it in further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u213	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed draft law contained in Seym printing No 1186 refers to an extremely important but also complex matter, which is to deprive the perpetrators of the benefits of criminal offences. It is obvious - and the Civic Platform Club also stands in this position - that it is necessary to pursue and punish all criminals with all determination. Consequently, these criminals must also be deprived of assets that have been illegally collected. The starting point for the adoption of the proposed bill is not only to strengthen legal mechanisms to improve the efficiency of prosecution of economic offences, but also to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014. In view of the need to adopt new regulations, however, I would like to point out that the bill presented raises many controversy and reservations. Firstly, it contains a number of legal and legislative defects, and secondly, introduces new powers for law enforcement apparatus and special services, which will give the possibility of surveillance of Polish entrepreneurs. One of the most important changes is the proposal to add an article in the Penal Code. 44a, which is intended to serve as a basis for the use of the so-called. the confiscation of an enlarged one. However, it raises legal doubts, which was raised at the stage of work on the project. It is extremely important that the new regulations are consistent and harmonious with the existing legal system. The Ministry of Justice proposes that the court should be able to rule on the forfeiture of an undertaking owned by the perpetrator. Unfortunately, the provision does not refer to the definition of a company as defined by civil law. There is therefore a real risk of prosecutors applying different assessment criteria from those currently in force, what is the company and what is part of it. Such a state of uncertainty will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the atmosphere of conducting business activity in Poland. The same provision also lacks a clear indication as to the extent to which the company may be forfeited, namely whether the court will always rule on the whole or whether it will be able to rule on only part of the company. This is extremely important in the context of the huge diversity of possible components of the company, such as machinery, personnel and accounting documentation, but also know-how and information covered by trade secrets. The proposal for a new wording also raises huge reservations. Article 2 45 criminal code. It implies breaking up with one of the fundamental principles of criminal law, namely the principle of presumption of innocence. In fact, a catalogue of cases is introduced, when, by virtue of the law, there will be an assumption that the property collected by someone is an illegal property. Such a person will have to prove that she acquired her assets on a legal basis. After all, not every citizen collects at home for 5 years any evidence of making purchases, even if they are valuable items. So if someone has been convicted of a crime and has obtained a property benefit, then it cannot be assumed that everything he has acquired in the previous five years is illegal. As a result, however, the absence of a receipt or any proof of purchase may make someone a criminal. Proposals for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure regarding the rules governing the protection of assets are also extremely important. The Ministry of Justice proposes to introduce a new way of securing the execution of a future court ruling by establishing a compulsory management board of the company and designating the administrator. At the stage of the pre-trial procedure, the decision on such safeguards will be issued by the prosecutor and, after the prosecution, by the competent court. Let me just remind you that, in its original assumptions, this order issued by the prosecutor was not to be subject to judicial review. However, the public voices of opposition raised by Members of the Civic Platform, but above all by a wide range of experts, have resulted in the final consideration of judicial review. This does not change the fact that this new provision continues to cause a number of controversy. about its subsequent interpretation. As I mentioned at the outset, the bill also extends the powers of law enforcement and special services in the field of so-called. Operational and Recognizing Functions. The amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice will concern the police, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Military Police Department, the Border Guard, the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service. I would just like to remind you that the persons responsible for supervising these services are now convicted by the court of abuse of power and then pardoned by President Andrzej Duda. So he can't surprise anyone by the fact that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each time special services are granted new powers...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u215	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u216	Mr. Marshal, half a minute. Half a minute, Marshal. It's the same for...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u217	Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u218	...laws. Ladies and gentlemen, as highlighted in the opinion submitted by the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław, there is a need to carry out...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u219	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u220	...changes to provisions to deprive criminals of the fruit of crime. However, the bill introduces a number of vague and vague...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u221	Mr President, are you resigning?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u222	...conditions that may be considered to violate rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u223	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u224	Therefore, the Civic Platform Club is of the opinion that this bad bill can now be improved, and we therefore request that it be referred to further work in the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 1186. It should be noted at the outset that the contested law is significantly different from the original draft law, drawn up by the Government in May 2016. During the public consultation, the government gave up many controversial rules of concern to many institutions, but above all, concerns to the public and, above all, entrepreneurs. These provisions concerned, in particular, the penalisation of the possession of criminal assets alone or the introduction of restrictions on the possibility of a decision on a forfeiture in respect of persons who have not committed a crime. New solutions should also be noted concerning issues related to the protection of the company's losses by establishing a compulsory management board. It has already been said here that this procedure was originally not subject to judicial review, it is now, but also under this procedure, it is possible to secure a collective undertaking, which is no longer so obvious. Also with regard to the security of this property, the current proposed rules do not contain time-limits which would determine the duration of the compulsory management. Unfortunately, the current bill also contains a number of solutions which have not been subject to any public consultation and concern important issues related to civil rights and freedoms. It is unacceptable to allow operational control to practically all uniformed services, and this is only for the disclosure of assets at stake. This leads to a significant extension of the catalogue of offences subject to operational control and, consequently, to practically universal surveillance against citizens and, above all, entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs, those who are not subject to criminal proceedings. Reference only in those provisions to the acts referred to in Article. 45 § 2 Penal Code or Art. 32 § 2 of the Tax Code does not constitute any restriction on the application of operational control, as it is precisely these provisions that allow the transfer of property in respect of a third party, thus the circle of entities potentially subject to surveillance remains even unlimited. Such regulations raise fundamental concerns about their compliance with Article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights and Article. 47 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. violations of the right to privacy and protection of family life. The proposed solutions also address a significant extension of the powers of uniformed services related to access to legally protected information, in particular the powers of the police, which will have access to data protected by different kinds of secrecy without any control by an independent authority, which the Ombudsman rightly points out in his opinions. It should be stressed that the proposed provisions on the possibility of a company being forfeited infringe the principle of proportionality, i.e. the preservation of constitutional grounds for interference with property rights. The standard Article is unacceptable. 45 § 2 resulting in the transfer to the accused, but also to third parties, of the burden of proof that the assets acquired within 5 years prior to the conviction were not derived from the offence. Such a construction is primarily in breach of the principle of presumption of innocence as the basis for the functioning of democratic states. I know you're the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was appealing in his speech, saying he wasn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u227	...but directly from the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 directives show that in this case the law...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u228	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u229	Just the conclusion, will you?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u230	Please, sir, you've run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u231	Thank you very much. On the contrary, the rights of third parties operating...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u232	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u233	...in good faith, they can never be violated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u234	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u235	Last sentence, just a conclusion. In view of the fact that it is not possible to create a bad law, hiding itself only and exclusively from the need to implement EU directives...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u236	Mr President, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u237	... Modern requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u238	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party Allow me to present our position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws contained in print no. 1186. The aim of this project is to introduce into Polish criminal law the so-called "material, procedural and implementing institution." confiscation of the extended and, at the same time, implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the direction, it is difficult not to share the arguments that this would be an institution needed and indicated. But what else is the goal, and what else, Minister, is the means to achieve this goal. Unfortunately, the analysis of the project in terms of individual tools for the effective implementation of this institution, and not only in line with the principle that Mr Milewski of the PiS spoke of, in accordance with the Bible's principle: steal not, but I will also mention, an omen, a biblical principle to be guided by law and justice... One must be in connection with the other, and unfortunately the analysis of this project shows that not in all records it goes hand in hand. For example, in the proposed article. 44a § 5 There is a reservation that the company's loss cannot be determined if the damage caused by the offence or the value of the hidden advantage is not significant in relation to the size of the company's activities. Such a solution does not seem sufficient to safeguard the application of the principle of proportionality of the strict sense when it is possible to rule on the loss of an undertaking. The draft article also raises doubts. 48a of the Penal Code, which introduces the possibility of judgment in cases where the court would not apply the offence for the reasons set out in the draft Article. 44a § 4 and 6 if this would be disproportionate to the seriousness of the offence committed, the degree of culpability of the accused or the motivation and manner of conduct of the owner of the undertaking, if the damage caused by the offence or the value of the hidden advantage is not significant in relation to the size of the undertaking's activities and in other particularly justified cases where it would be disproportionate to the owner of the undertaking. This design potentially allows for a judgment of a criminal measure against a person who is not even subject to criminal proceedings, e.g. the owner of the third party undertaking. It cannot be accepted from the perspective of the right to a fair trial, one of which is the principle that it cannot be ruled twice in the same case. The loss of property of persons who are not even being dealt with gives rise to great opportunities for abuse. Those third parties are also effectively deprived of their rights of defence in the full sense of the word. It also raises concerns about the possibility of setting up a guarantee on the company against a possible future loss by introducing a compulsory board of directors. In particular, the wording of the article is unclear. 292b k.p.k. introducing the possibility of a security on an undertaking belonging to a collective entity, while the proposed Article. 44a § 1 and 2 k.k.a. points out clearly that the company is only possible if it belongs to a natural person. So, what do you say, the state of the applicant? Is the transfer of property also intended to concern collective entities or individuals alone? You will create an unclear situation here, there is an internal contradiction in the project. In accordance with the proposed Article. 45 § 2 The criminal code in case of conviction of the perpetrator any property which he acquired within 5 years prior to the judgment is to be treated as an advantage derived from the offence and is to be forfeited. It should be made clear that this provision and its proposed temporal scope are incompatible with constitutional and international standards of presumption of innocence. From where the authors took these 5 years, it is difficult to guess. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party makes support for this project conditional on the removal of these controversial entries. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 1186. The aim of this draft law is to improve the effectiveness of actions that deprive criminals of the property benefits they have obtained as a result of the crime. However, although the intention of the designers is correct, the solutions contained in the amendment may raise many reservations. Recovering property derived from criminal offences is an important part of the fight against crime. To date, the range of opportunities that economic criminals have to exploit to avoid this is very wide. There is no doubt, therefore, that measures to improve the effectiveness of measures to reduce their financial impunity are necessary. The project proposes a number of changes to meet the initial assumptions of the project promoters. Among them there are among others. the extension of the catalogue of offences for which a transfer of property may be ordered, to offences from which the perpetrator has obtained, directly or indirectly, a property benefit and which are punishable by a maximum penalty of not less than 5 years. I consider it appropriate to burden the criminal with the need to prove the legality of the source of the property at risk of loss, which he obtained within five years before he committed a proven crime. I agree with the argument that in the case of crimes committed by organized groups or criminals who make themselves a permanent source of income, it should be presumed that the crime for which they are tried is not the only one they committed. Importantly, the new regulations also provide for the possibility of forfeiture of assets which the perpetrator has transferred to third parties free of charge or for an amount lower than the market in order to avoid confiscation, and allow for the loss of a non-culprit enterprise, but for which there are grounds to consider it as a tool for the offence. The proposed changes are alleged to infringe property rights and the freedom of economic activity. However, I believe that the lack of sharpening in this area will contribute to further escalation of the problem. Those who violate the law in order to obtain property benefits after their judgments often return to their luxurious homes bought with money from crime. With an adequate amount of funds from previously committed illegal activities, they continue their illegal activities, which is evidence of the ineffectiveness of the functioning system. Given that these restrictions have already been applied in many European countries, I see no reason why they would not apply in Poland either. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Two Members have asked questions. She will be the first to ask a question by Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! I have such a reflection here that after 27 years history has come to an end, because in February 1990 the consequences of the liberalisation of the Penal Code, which at that time abolished the possibility of confiscation of property, were made to bear. The main question is: Should we not today give justice to those few wise people who, like the voice of the cry out in the wilderness, have warned against the disastrous consequences of a solution preventing the confiscation of property, especially in the case of economic crimes? It is paradoxical that an institution of expanded confiscation comes to us today through European Union law. Is the government aware of the consequences of the 27-year non-application of the confiscation penalty extended to the development of mafia structures, to the misuse of the nomenclature, to the theft of national assets? What losses have the Polish State suffered since the introduction of this institution will now bring billions of revenue to the state budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u244	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft provides for the possibility of the loss of property in the event of termination of proceedings due to the death of the perpetrator or his absence, as well as the suspension of proceedings caused by his or her mental illness or other serious illness. How will the Minister now justify serious doubts as to whether such provisions do not infringe the constitutionally guaranteed rights of heirs of property against which the forfeiture has been declared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Warchoł will now answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many allegations of compliance with the presumption of innocence. In two words, I will only refer to the discussion that took place. The presumption of innocence, as I have stressed and as is clear from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, does not concern the question of ownership, acquisition and possession of property. Moreover, last year we have a directive on the presumption of innocence and in the justification for the proposal for a directive we clearly read - the proposal is made by the European Commission: the presumption of innocence states that the burden of proof lies with the prosecution, and any question of guilt must be settled in favour of suspects or accused persons. In dubio pro reo. So that it is clearly said about wine. There is absolutely no question of property, possession of this property. It's about guilt. So that's first of all. Therefore, at the outset, I reject all the doubts that have arisen here in the context of the alleged contradiction with the presumption of innocence. This has absolutely no connection, and I will point to four judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in order to answer the second question. I apologize immediately, Madam, but I will reply to you earlier. The issue of death was examined by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Silicone v Lithuania. It was a situation where the wife of a high officer in the Lithuanian Treasury and his mother lost their assets as a result of confiscation, and he was the one who was accused and died during the proceedings. They challenged this decision by the Lithuanian authorities, the Lithuanian courts to the European Court of Human Rights and the widow of the accused lost. The Court did not see any evidence of a presumption of innocence. He absolutely stated that the confiscation of property after the deceased, in the event of confiscation of property belonging to a third party - after all, here the property of the wife was confiscated, and the property of the accused's mother - is as much in line with the European Convention. This is the first of the relevant judgments. The second ruling, which was groundbreaking, concerned the Phillips case against the United Kingdom, which was about assuming the criminal origin of the property 6 years ago. The Court also concluded that this is absolutely necessary, necessary and the presumption of innocence or property does not prejudice this. And what's more, it's logical. Why? Because that's our argument, that is, criminal activity is just a frame from a movie that's going on. We don't know if a criminal, a gangster, was acquired a year ago, two years ago, three years ago. We're keeping him red-handed right now, and we don't know under what circumstances and when he acquired it. That's why we're presuming that he bought it five years ago. In other countries, in Bulgaria, these periods are many times longer. In the UK, this is a 6-year period, which was examined by the Court. The Court found compliance with the Convention. We introduced an even shorter period: 5 years. Another ruling, very important to our project. Van Offeren v Netherlands. This was about the situation where the court acquitted the perpetrator of the drug trade, but the perpetrator was unable to indicate where his property came from - the entire property was lost. Even though he was acquitted from drug trafficking, his inability to identify the source of his assets put him at risk of losing his assets. The case, I would say, as many others in the European Court. Such, I would say, is standard for this type of case law as regards the question of the protection of property rights or the presumption of innocence. So that these examples must be shown, given and shown how far away we are from European standards. None of the countries of the European Union would have allowed themselves to do what our country has done in recent years. And thank you for that question, Madam Member. The country recovers 1% property in relation to that which loses as a result of criminal activity - 1%. Last year it was just 200 million PLN. So that a good yacht is worth almost 1/4 of this price. We have absolutely no tools to fight this kind of crime. From 2004 to 2014, the number of organised criminal groups in Poland has increased several times. The increase in the activity of these groups in the last years is 129%. I will also point only to the multi-billion-dollar losses of the State Treasury, which were almost equal to the budget deficit, but only to VAT crime. So that we end with the helplessness of the state, we end with the theoretical state and the kind of solutions that have been in place for many other cases for many years. She drew attention to 1990. This is significant, because the Italian laws come from the late 1980s, the UK law from the 1970s yet, in France in the 1990s, precisely this type of tool was equipped by the state, and we, with full awareness, got rid of these tools. So to say, we're finally going back to civilization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u248	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, and we will vote on it in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law (Print No 1127). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law amends the Act of 27 April 2001. Environmental law regarding the appointment of selected bodies of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and of the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds, aimed at reducing the cost of their operation, simplifying and speeding up procedures for the appointment of their members and, as a result, improving the work of these bodies. The reduction in the operating costs of selected fund bodies is intended to amend the Article. 400d paragraph. 1 - reduction in the number of members of the national supervisory board of the fund, Article. 400f paragraph. 1 - reduction in the number of members of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds and Article. 400 lips. 1 - reduction of the number of members of the management boards of the voivodship funds. The simplification and acceleration of the procedures for the appointment of members of supervisory boards shall be aimed at amending Article. 400f bill. At the moment, the procedure for setting up the 7-person supervisory boards of the Funds is inconsistent, complex, long-term and in practice leads to situations which may raise significant doubts, because the legislator has granted powers to appoint and dismiss members of the supervisory boards of the funds to the Sejm of voivodships and, at the same time, to the minister responsible for environmental protection who dismisses the members of the Supervisory Boards of the Funds if they no longer fulfil the functions set out in the Act. Moreover, the law in the article. 400f paragraph. 2 provides that the supervisory boards of the Funds shall consist of persons with specific functions, persons notified by a seymist from among certain categories of candidates and persons notified or designated by certain entities. The process of notification and designation is complicated, and since it is complemented by the establishment of a voivodship seymik, there is an unnecessary time gap between these activities. The shortcomings of the current solution are particularly evident in the case of withdrawal of the notification or withdrawal of the designation of the person concerned who is part of the supervisory board of the fund and at the same time the notification or appointment of a new person. In such a situation, a change in the composition of the supervisory board of the fund may take up to 3 months in the doubts raised as to the legitimacy of a member of the supervisory board of the fund whose notification or designation has been withdrawn. The proposed solution for granting the Minister responsible for the environment competence to appoint and dismiss the members of the supervisory boards of the Funds therefore introduces one coherent and consistent solution which allows for a smooth, without unnecessary delays, change in the composition of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds. The aim of the solution of granting the minister responsible for the environment competence to appoint members of councils not designated by the voivodship and the management board of the national environmental fund or the sejm of the voivodship of the representatives of the minister is to discipline the entities in question as to the smooth appointment of those members and to enable the supervisory boards of the funds to function effectively. The solution introduced in the new paragraph shall be similar with regard to the appointment of the management boards of the Funds. Article 2a 400th Act according to which, if the Management Board of the voivodship does not appoint members of the Management Board of the Fund within 7 days in accordance with the proposal of the Supervisory Board of the Fund, the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Fund shall be carried out by the Supervisory Board. The proposed amendment is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. The transitional provisions contained in the project will allow for smooth changes in the above-mentioned compositions. bodies of funds without disturbing their current work. The project is compatible with European Union law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u250	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend to you a parliamentary project concerning amendments to the Environmental Law Act, contained in print No 1127, in the section on composition and procedure of appointment of members of supervisory boards and national and voivodship boards of environmental and water management funds. The procedure for appointment of members of the supervisory boards of environmental funds is to be simplified and their composition is limited from 12 to 11 persons in the case of the national environmental fund and in the case of voivodship funds from seven to five persons. The number of management boards of voivodship funds is to be reduced from four to one, up to two persons. The National Environmental Fund and the Voivodship Environmental Funds are environmental institutions established by the Environmental Law, and indeed a State-owned special-purpose fund designed to finance public-funded tasks, which were considered so important that it was decided to finance them under a separate structure. A similar fund is e.g. Labour Fund, Social Insurance Fund or State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In the current state of law, regional environmental directors or their deputies, regional environmental inspectors, the chairman of regional nature conservation councils, the chairman of the environmental committees of the provincial Sejmists, the director of the Departments of Environmental Protection of Marshals' Offices, and finally representatives of environmental organizations, sat in the supervisory boards of the regional funds. In other words, the supervisory boards included the same persons who perform environmental functions in different institutions, which is definitely not a good solution. Now a few sentences on changes in the membership of the management board of the funds. There is no obstacle to the management of even a large company or a public company being carried out on a one-man basis, although in practice, e.g. in various types of companies, it is that it is carried out by two persons. In principle, there is no need for the boards of public companies to be multi-membered in the event of activities exceeding the scope of the ordinary board next to the President to be signed by a procurator. The same applies to voivodship environmental funds, where, in the case of a single-member board, the signature may be signed alongside the president of the fund, which is in line with the current arrangements. In other words, currently existing multi-member boards, even five-members, are a solution that is not possible even in large public companies. Five may be a board of directors, not a board of directors. In fact, the practice shows that this is an optimal number. The reduction in the number and supervision of managers of environmental funds is therefore aimed not only at savings related to the costs of unnecessary multiplication of positions in these bodies, but, above all, at improving their performance. A similar objective is to simplify the appointment of members of the management boards and supervisory boards of the Funds. Of course, at this point, the opposition will call for the refusal of the possibility of the members of the supervisory boards to be appointed by the Provincial Sejm to be a further attempt on democracy in the exercise of the Law and Justice. [[Not at all!]] In the sense of the opposition, every, even the most justified action of the Law and Justice is an attack on democracy and a violation of the Constitution. However, what actually determines the actions of Law and Justice is rationalism and common sense. [[Oh!]] Remember, it is the minister who coordinates all activities in the area of competence of his department... [[Chairman and Minister.]] ...and takes personal responsibility for them. So why can't it affect the cast of posts in such an important place that it doesn't say the key structure for the functioning of this resort, which is the voivodship environmental funds? Incidentally, since, on the basis of current legislation, the minister responsible for environmental matters has the power to dismiss members of supervisory boards, it is illogical that he is deprived of his powers to appoint them. The current draft amendment to the Environmental Law simplifies and rationalises both the procedures for the appointment of management boards and members of the supervisory boards of voivodship environmental funds, and aims to improve the functioning of these bodies. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to ask you and your fellow Members to accept the changes and solutions recommended here. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u252	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is the next stage of the so-called law. Not a good change. On the one hand, there is another way to dismantle and embezzle public institutions not only in personal terms but also in power over public funds, on the other hand, the role, competence, and in particular the legal and financial instruments of local governments, and in the third edition. This is the next stage of the dismantling of environmental institutions, the environmental protection system in Poland. What does that mean? What is usually a good change in our country, that is to say, indulgence, very colloquially speaking, money and stools. I would like to remind you that it is a matter of changing the way in which supervisory boards and management boards of regional environmental funds are appointed, to the least extent national, so we can put them aside. But I would also like to remind you that in the case of voivodship environmental funds, local right-wing people, public institutions, these bodies are not an emanation of power or property, whether they are local governments of voivodships or states, because they are institutions unlike companies and not identical with them. Nor does the supervisory board in the funds mean the same thing as the supervisory board in the company, which is not the emantion of the owner. In fact, the Supervisory Boards are designed in the Environmental Protection Act to include representatives of all regional and national environmental stakeholders and thus ensure that they are impartial and appropriate to the regional needs of spending public money charged for the economic use of the environment. That was the creature. National central fund, voivodship funds corresponding to the diverse environmental needs in voivodships will decide on the allocation of these funds. Because the supervisory board in voivodship funds does not supervise, as is the case in companies, it creates on the financial side an environmental policy of the voivodship. And here's the danger. At the time, the legislator thought that this is a representative of the Regional Environmental Council, that this is the director of the Environmental Protection Department of the Marshal's office, that this is the Provincial Environmental Inspector, that this is the representative of the economic environments and environments of NGOs, NGOs that deal with ecology - selected in a transparent way according to the statutory matrix. There is no freedom here from the local government. All parties were impartially represented. And this is converted into an arbitrary appointment by the minister and the minister's emancipation in this area, a voivode, a group that is cut by two people under the pretext of savings. But this bill does not say that this five - person supervisory board cannot have the same salaries as this seven - person council. Yeah, even bigger. Looking at what PiS did with the chimney bill, it could be more. Similarly, savings in reducing the management of these funds to two people are apparent. Yes, God and the truth may be directors, they may even be one person, but that does not mean that they will save themselves from something, because their wages are not imposed from the outside. Given how the chimney has been increased to 14 times the remuneration of board members in State and municipal Treasury companies, it may turn out that these two - appropriate, because their - board members will earn more than five so far. As far as savings are concerned, it would suffice to amend the law in this respect so that a certain pool or, let's say, some of the resources obtained for the economic use of the environment can only be used for the operation of these measures. However, it is not about personalities, it is not even about money, although local governments of voivodships [[♪ The bell ♪]] with challenges e.g. in the form of air protection, they will not be able to control these measures. This is about something else, this is about power, stools and money for your people. And no one will control who it is, who it is, and how it is to be spent. That's what this is all about. The Civic Platform will ask for rejection of this - I do not want to call it a bill, because it does not deserve that name - a project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u254	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr.Peter Appeal, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u255	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another very important system project that changes a lot, very much, but it is a project that should be socially consulted and not. The project has been reported as a parliamentary one, thus avoiding such an important element of democracy as the public consultation, which I very much regret. It is a project that centralizes as much local expenditure as it is about environmental protection. This is a bad project because one decision-making person will allocate funds to very local cases to protect local environments. Environmental protection and funding should be in local governments as close as possible to citizens, so that citizens can decide through the selection of relevant local authorities how these funds will be allocated. Kukiz.15 believes that this project is simply harmful. It is not possible to focus everything on strength, to try to worry about the next positions, as the Member has said, and the next elements of power over the next funds. It cannot be that in Warsaw it will decide what is to happen in different voivodships. Because each voivodship has its own specificity, each region has its own specificity and this specificity should be taken into account in a specific way. And here we're really talking about centralization. All democracy should be based on coming down as low as possible, and this project goes up high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u256	Thank you. And Mrs Ewa Lieder, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed project envisages a change in the way in which regional authorities choose environmental and water management funds. The members of the supervisory boards will be appointed and appointed not by the sejmics of voivodships, as before, but by the Minister of Environment, Voivodeship and the Management Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, i.e. in short by the government administration. It's just centralizing and taking over the fund by the ruling party. And let us be aware that this is PLN 2 billion per year to spend on ecological projects. In the supervisory boards of voivodship funds, regional environmental directors who are regional nature conservationists or voivodships, environmental inspectors will be replaced by members of councils appointed by the voivodship from representatives of science or non-governmental organisations, as you can expect, uncritically favorable to the decisions of the Ministry of Environment. The chairman of the Regional Nature Councils or the chairman of the Regional Environmental Impact Assessment Commissions will be mentioned as members of the Boards appointed by the Management Board of the National Environmental Protection and Water Management Fund. The chairman of the committee responsible for the environment of the voivodships will be listed as members of the councils appointed by the voivodship. The councils will be completely eliminated by environmental directors of marshal offices and representatives of environmental organisations notified by organisations operating and holding organizational structures in the region with the support of the largest number of such organisations. This project aims to eliminate from the supervisory function of independent environmental organisations, which are the sole in the eye of the governing party and in this case the Minister of Szyszka. The only representative of the local government remains the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board. There is no denying that changes in voivodship funds lead to the centralisation of the environmental financing system and its submission to government administration. The Supervisory Board shall be composed of a representative of the national fund. Self-governments will no longer have any impact on what environmental projects will be co-financed. The project is concerned that the needs of local communities will no longer be met, because so far the funds have been independent of the government and have dealt with environmental problems in their backyard regardless of the policy direction chosen by the government and the Ministry of the Environment. The proposed amendment aims to take away this independence. Art. 15 of the Constitution refers to the principle of decentralisation of public authority, which includes local government as a form of participation of citizens in the rule of rule about the ability to perform public tasks with a clear guarantee of independence in their implementation. The proposed changes violate this constitutional principle, because in a democratic country we should not seek centralised administration. Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the Constitution speaks of public tasks carried out by the local government on behalf of itself and focused on meeting the needs of the inhabitants, including the tasks contracted, as laid down in the laws in accordance with the principle of proportionality. According to art. 165 of the Constitution and the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal The legal personality of local self-government units is based on local self-government in local and other matters provided by the laws. The proposed changes are an interference in the independence of a local legal person, which is a regional environmental protection fund. The proposed personal exchange for persons recommended by the government administration is a violation of the independence of the voivodship funds. The project is so dangerous and opposed by local governments that the projecters have been through the consultation stage, which was possible thanks to the fact that it is a draft of the group of Members of Law and Justice. In summary, the law is incompatible with the Polish constitution, restricts the role and competence of the local government, its impact on local investments in the field of ecology, another institution completely subordinates the government administration, which is directly the governing party, is another staff law, which is why the Poselski Club of Modernity is applying to reject its project entirely in its first reading. Thank you. [[Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u258	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us not destroy the idea of voivodship environmental funds, which for 20 years have been partners, proven partners of local governments. These regional institutions act as local legal entities which have financed thousands of tasks relating to water protection, atmosphere, waste management or environmental education. The funds are accessible and beneficiary-friendly and are well aware of local needs and specificities. This reform is an attempt to deprive regional local authorities of the right to decide on the resources available to the voivodship funds. In our case, as far as Lower Silesia is concerned, it is PLN 700 million, on a national scale it is over PLN 2 billion. This money supported projects carried out at regional level. Yet the government already has a national financial institution - a national environmental fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now the whole system of financing ecology in Poland will be centralised and managed from Warsaw. No one is questioning the possibility of reforming funds, seeking savings, creating better conditions for their activities, but it is surprising that there is no consultation on such an important issue. Self-governments cease to be partners and subjects. This is not the first reform of the fund system this year. Up to 40% funds from voivodship environmental and water management funds will be transferred to central institutions, the newly created State Water Farm of Poland and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in connection with the reform of Water Law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u260	Thank you. And Mr Piotr Zgorzelski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments to the Environmental Law in print No 1127 proposed by the PiS Group do not serve to improve the functioning of the environmental financing system. They have only the dimension of personal cleansing and assassination of another local government institution, i.e. regional environmental funds. Each of the Seymists could benefit from the support of these funds in implementing their region's environmental programmes, drawing up a list of tasks and priority projects in line with local needs and expectations of municipalities and powiats, which were the main beneficiaries of voivodship funds. And there was some logic in it. The biggest investments of national importance were supported by a national fund being a national special purpose fund. Smaller investments, of local importance, were supported by voivodship environmental funds. Hence the legal formula of funds which are local legal entities. I will remind you - local government, serving equally to the local governments of all categories. For more than 20 years, environmental funds have been transformed into regional centres of competence in the field of environmental protection. They took many environmental initiatives, being for the marshal of a given province a proven and substantive partner. The Marshals of several voivodships handed over the implementation of regional operational programmes to the voivodship funds, both in the perspective of the years 2007 to 2014 and 2014 to 2020. This mechanism works and is tested. In view of this situation, how can we assess the proposal for changes to environmental law, whose sole purpose is to take control of the funds by carrying out a human revolution in the supervisory boards and boards of companies? The arguments set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Act do not correspond to the facts. Firstly, instead of limiting the number of members of the body concerned, savings in the costs of the bodies can be adjusted. Secondly, the proposed changes are a kind of jump on the government's money, a jump on the assets of the funds developed for over 20 years. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, the proposed changes are of the nature of an attempt on the independence of Polish local governments. This is another stage in building a centralist state, including in the field of environmental protection, a country where the government will focus both supervisory, control and culprit functions in its hands through the use of financial resources. In this situation, the question arises: When taking resources and opportunities from local governments, does it take full responsibility, for example, for the implementation of EU directives? Why is it not a government project, but a joyful work of a group of MEPs who want jobs and stools? But this is also another installment of the planned salami action, which is to cut off the power of local governments and limit their independence. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party will ask for the rejection of the submitted parliamentary bill amending the Environmental Law, contained in print no. 1127, at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u262	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Whether you like it or not, the burden of supplying drinking water to the residents has already been on the shoulders of Polish local governments many years ago, it is on the shoulders of local governments that the obligation to receive waste water has been imposed on the shoulders of local governments. It is thanks to local governments, I will say from the perspective of the Wielkopolska voivodship that all objects of public interest have experienced the closure of the thermomodernization process in recent years, at the same time they have exchanged all sources of heat for greener, more natural for the environment. As in recent months, you have stopped financing the scheme against smog, the regional environmental funds have introduced their programmes dedicated to local governments to combat excessive emissions in the winter season of various dangerous substances. In this connection, ladies and gentlemen, how will you explain this project, which does not serve anything, destroys very useful institutions, which have done a lot of good in environmental policy recently for Poles and Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u264	Thank you. Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted to the High House, as the applicants pointed out, is intended to reduce the costs of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management... [[Sure.]] ...and voivodship environmental and water management funds, and above all simplifying and speeding up the procedures for the appointment of their members and, as a result, improving the work of these bodies. At the moment, the procedure for setting up the 7-person supervisory boards of the Funds is inconsistent, complex, long-term and in practice leads to situations which may raise significant doubts. The legislator granted the power to appoint and dismiss members of the supervisory boards of the funds to the Sejm of voivodships and at the same time the Minister responsible for the environment, who dismisses the members of the supervisory boards of the funds if they no longer fulfil the functions set out in the Act. The supervisory boards of the Funds shall be composed of persons with specific functions, persons selected by the Sejm as regards a specific category of candidates, and persons notified or designated by specific entities. The process of reporting and designation is complicated, and since it is complemented by the formation by the sejm of the voivodship as a collegial body, there is an unnecessary time gap between these activities. The shortcomings of the current solution are particularly evident in the case of withdrawal of the notification and designation of the person concerned who is part of the supervisory board of the fund and at the same time the notification and appointment of a new person. In such a situation, the process of changing the composition of the supervisory board of the fund may take up to 2 and 3 months. The proposed solution for granting the Minister responsible for the environment competence to appoint and dismiss the members of the supervisory boards of the Funds introduces one coherent and consistent solution that allows for a smooth transition without delay to the composition of the supervisory boards of the Funds. Today, the composition of the fund authorities is decided by the voivodship sejmikas. They're picking 7-person supervisory boards, and they're calling boards. The Councils have a majority of representatives of local governments and NGOs. This caused many pathological situations in which councils decided to split hundreds of millions of zlotys, among others. for NGOs... [[Yeah, sure.]] ... whose representatives were on the council. Many NGO activists in our country, among others. Over 10,000. environmental associations and foundations, so-called ecologically, they often deliberately assumed new organisations for specific projects supported by the voivodship authorities of funds. There are even known cases where activists of organizations migrated to positions in voivodship funds and vice versa, which resulted in requests for support being evaluated by mutual support societies. [[The voice from the hall: What are you talking about, man?]] After the changes, the supervisory board will have five people appointed by the voivode. Self-government will not be a decision-maker, so there will be a specific, you can say, purification from local interdependencies and systems. According to the project, the only representative of the local government in the Council will be the vice-president appointed by the Provincial Sejm, and the fund's management will have a maximum of two people, which is completely sufficient. In the project the election of the fund authorities is decided mainly by the voivod, but the Ministry of Environment will have control over everything. [[Voice from the room: Massacre.]] Discipline of entities, i.e. the funds referred to in the explanatory memorandum are absolutely crucial for the correct and consistent implementation of the environmental policy of the country, which has so far been inconsistent, inconsistent, very chaotic and extremely costly. In the social perception there is a belief that the voivodship funds are part of the government structure, and the policies implemented reflect government policy, i.e. the state. In the meantime, it was exactly the opposite, and it is best given by the proverb: the freedom of Tomek in his cottage. That's exactly how the fund managers treated their money. They shared it after being considered, and they were very eager to get funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Voivodship funds operate in every voivodship. They have money from the budget and programmes of the European Union, finance environmental strengthening institutions, waste water treatment plants, sewage systems, heating and environmental education, provide loans and grants. The funds go through tens of millions of zlotys. The introduction of control over them is intended to ensure that they implement government policy rather than local agreements. The most prominent case of the voivodship in the authorities of the funds is borne out by the case of former Minister Jolanta Fedak, whose decision resulted in a billionth loss in the budget as a result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of November 2012, in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Court held that the 2011 Act, which suspended the payment of benefits to retired workers, was incompatible with the Constitution. After the sentence, ZUS started paying pensions again. Currently, the former Minister holds the position of President of the Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in her family's Zielona Góra. There may be mistakes in the institutions of the state. However, it is important to be able to fix them - so Prime Minister Donald Tusk referred to the need to return the money taken away from those who linked the pension to their work. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u266	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. 16 ladies and gentlemen of the House have signed up for questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the joyous work of the MPs' group is strong. This clearly limits the powers of local government units regarding the formation, the proper functioning of the entire voivodship environmental fund for the benefit of, of course, authorities, institutions, government administrations. As we have heard in these reports of many clubs, it is indeed a jump on money, a jump on positions, not the first and certainly not the last organized by Law and Justice. But I wanted to ask the applicants if you took into account the compatibility of the text with the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 16 and Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 165 of the Constitution and the principle of subsidiarity expressed in the preamble to the Constitution. And second question. Of course, you want to fill these bodies of the voivodship fund yourself, and I wanted to ask you what criteria you will use for this, what specific rules, what criteria will determine that specific people will be in the position. Is this supposed to be the only and correct document, the party card of the PiS? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u268	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u269	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law presented to the High House, which has not even been consulted by the public, is another human rights and justice law which clearly violates the Constitution, Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 to the extent that the amendment infringes the principle of decentralisation of public authority, Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 to the extent that the amendment deprives the local government of its powers to exercise public authority and to carry out significant public tasks on its own behalf and on its own responsibility, as well as Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 and 2 of the Constitution to the extent that the amendment infringes the autonomy of local self-government units. The changes proposed by the Members of Law and Justice also undermine the institutional independence of voivodship environmental funds as local legal entities, lead to the deprivation of voivodship authorities, NGOs, representatives of environmental organisations operating in the voivodship and representatives of economic local governments of the impact on the direction of financing of environmental projects and on the level of aid granted, lead to the centralisation of fund structures, i.e. their complete submission to government administration and also pose a serious threat to the role of funds in the environmental finance system at the level of the voivodship. My question is this: Is the real purpose of the bill being the total personal exchange of the management board of 16 funds and supervisory boards and the next leap or attack on self-government in our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u270	Thank you, sir. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another staff bill by Mr Kaczyński, who is not here at the moment, but that is the truth. According to the proposed changes, the supervisory board of the funds would have five people, four of whom would have designated a national environmental fund, a minister and voivodships, and the only representative of the local government would have been a vice-president of the council. These changes clearly undermine the independence of institutions, which are voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. Centralisation of fund structures is their complete submission to the government administration. This will adversely affect the effectiveness of the Funds in terms of both environmental and educational activities. It's a blow to the good of local communities. I would ask the Members of the applicant to refer, in the context of this project, to the provisions of the Constitution, in particular those relating to the decentralisation of public authority, and to the rules for the exercise of public tasks by the local government on their own behalf, and not on behalf of government units. Does this project break those rules? Well, in my opinion, I certainly do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u272	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's so easy for us to go over saying that something is unconstitutional. In this House, it suddenly turns out that if you talk about unconstitutionality, it is actually meaningless. This is unfortunately the result of this government's actions. That is why it is surprising that the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council is appearing on the Parliament's website, pointing to the unconstitutionality that this is what is on the Sejm's website, because everyone is already undermining it. But I will turn to the Member of the applicant for what my predecessors have asked. I would like the applicant to take this proposal seriously and to put forward arguments from this parliamentary speaker that will overturn all these issues relating to non-constitutionality. Second thing. According to the designer's justification for the project, the main objective of the proposed changes is to introduce savings by limiting the personnel composition of supervisory authorities in the national environmental fund as well as in the voivodship environmental fund. Let's move on. If you want to cut back in the voivodship, let's go down in the national fund. to seven members of the Supervisory Board to make these savings. Why on the one hand doesn't the national fund go so far with cuts and the provincial fund goes so far with cuts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u274	Mr Jacek Protas, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the only true motive and reason for the next crawling assassination of the local government in Poland is the willingness to fill in the profitable positions of the next - proverbial ones - Pisiewiczów? This project is primitive in its assumptions, because it actually leaves voivodship funds to protect the environment and water management in jurisdiction or under the responsibility of the local governments of voivodships, while at the same time completely depriving them of their influence on the cast of supervisory boards and management boards. How can local governments be responsible for the functioning of voivodship funds, with one real representative on the supervisory board of this fund? I repeat: this is a primitive leap to the next positions and to the money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u276	Mrs Ewa Drozd, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment concerns only one of more than 400 articles and unfortunately clearly points to a job jump and money, storms the whole hard-developed idea of decentralisation functioning, among others. voivodship environmental funds, which were supposed to solve problems and support environmental measures in the so-called. small homelands. The professional composition, the diversity of the supervisory board and the impact on the performance of these tasks by the Marshal's offices guaranteed professional solutions to local problems. Do you not fear that decisions taken by the Minister in Warsaw will not take into account local needs? Is it appropriate that the co-financing body, which is the Marshal's office responsible for carrying out environmental tasks, have no impact on the decision in this area? I would very much ask the applicant to respond. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u278	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you read the justification for this bill, the blood storms because of the crazyness of the argument that is supposed to mask the jump to the stools. In total, there are 96 paid functions and jobs at regional level. Every time the PiS plans a con of this nature, it uses a parliamentary project. So I speak to the many Members of the applicants here. Wouldn't it be fairer just to say: we're still getting a little bit of Misiewicz in the regions and we need to give them a job, and basically money? It'd be fairer. Too bad you can't, you don't have the guts to admit it. That is the true essence of this project. Now let's get a little merriment. Why do you turn the socialized supervisory board formula of voivodship funds into full party dependency? What will happen to these NGOs, employers? They'll evaporate. Now the voivode will decide who is worthy of being a representative of environmental organizations in the council of the voivodship fund. Why are you leaving the fund management mode to the voivodship board? It's a mockery. The Management Boards of Voivodships will have no influence on the personalia, and after all, the local government has the task of running the voivodship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Regional development policy based on the use of natural resources and environmental development. It is the voivodship which sets out the nature conservation plan, the environmental plan in its territory. Why should a voivode be more important than a marshal? Explain the reasons why this is going to happen. [[Oh, my God, because he's PiS.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's something else?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u280	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for the Member. Can the Member at all determine what this proposal is about? For it is about environmental law - it is a law that you are trying to change - and in the proposal, there is not a single word about environmental protection, not a single word that reflects the concern for environmental protection. [[I'm gonna fuck up everything I can.]] How can one understand such a twisted formula building such a figure that a local government legal person will be managed by a representative completely unrelated to the local government? Why in the end, sir, when writing this, as has already been said, staff law, did you not even seek a little respect for the local authorities, for the local authorities, and decided not to consult them? Perhaps it is worth asking local government officials who for 20 years have built the potential of voivodship funds, which are good not only in the voivodship, but also in the county and communal categories. Maybe it's worth asking the local government what they think. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u282	Mr Ireneus Raś, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this process of adopting some local government agencies, since decentralised years, to which no one from Warsaw ever had a grudge despite the changing groups that ruled in this country, I will describe this action as the most primitive. Well, get some of those voivodship environmental funds. Make a national environmental fund agenda and stop pretending it's local government. On the other hand, I think Mr. Gain here praised that such a great achievement, which is the result of your hard intellectual work, is that you will finally reduce local governments and NGOs. Gentlemen, there were politicians because there were nominates of the government, there were nominators of local governments, but there were also representatives of economic governments and NGOs that deal with ecology. What were they for? Just to look at your hands. Why are you afraid of this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u284	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about this practical management thing. The funds from the fees for the economic use of the environment available to the voivodship funds, unlike national funds, which still have other money, are collected by the collectors, are the services of the marshal. It's a tough, heavy piece of bread, shredded. How do you think these services are gonna be involved in raising this money and giving it to the non-fund, and the rest of the nation when they don't have any impact on their spending? The second question has such a kind of moral character: aren't you afraid? The last time there was an assassination on the provincial funds, the Sejm was self-solved. I don't know. [[Applause]] [[I didn't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u286	Mr Jakub Rutnicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2016 was the year of the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal, which - it must be said - Law and Justice did very well. And 2017 is really the year of the destruction of local governments. It's about what we learn about the issue of two-cadence. You can see that PiS doesn't like self-government, to say the least, and that decentralisation is absolutely wrong, and central control is what you want to go back to, also when it comes to environmental protection. That is why I wanted to ask you: Mr President, why is this a parliamentary initiative? Is it about speeding up these activities, or is it about making the next tens of Misiewiczs have additional opportunities to earn? Puls Biznesu has recently shown a list of a thousand Misiewiczs. Is this about the others? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u288	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the new regulations, the Marshals of voivodships will lose the opportunity to supervise the voivodship's environmental and water management funds. In line with the proposed proposal, the Minister of the Environment will decide on the composition of supervisory boards in voivodship environmental and water management funds which set environmental priorities and allocate funds for pre-defined objectives. These funds will therefore become an instrument of government policy. And the basis for the creation of voivodship funds was that they are to be the primary source of funding for the ecological tasks of the regions. It is at the level of the voivodship that determines the most important needs. Voivodship environmental programmes are the result of the work of seymists, in which all political forces are represented, and taking into account the important voice of non-governmental organisations. Do you think you can do it better without listening to those who created these voivodship funds or NGOs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u290	Mr Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is another hit in local governments, I would say - these words were already here, so let me just repeat - very vulgar. You're focusing on staff changes, but you're also focusing on the cash register. You want to take a few billion zlotys from the voivodship level and transfer it to the government level. You will probably say that all this money will stay in the regions, but that is not true, because as you ruled in 2007, you forced the presidents of the voivodeship environmental funds to buy shares of the Bank for Environmental Protection. This money, instead of landing in every region, went to the so-called. financial instruments. Knowing Prime Minister Morawiecki, I have no doubt that this is where he will find the source of funding for his needs. Like what? We don't know yet, but we'll probably find out in time. Ladies and gentlemen! You're also taking the opportunity to shape politics. What priorities should be pursued at regional level? How will you set national priorities for each voivodship? We want to fight smog in Małopolska. Whether, as a result of the decision, the Regional Environmental Fund in Krakow will be deprived of the remaining funds that have so far been allocated e.g. for the replacement of boilers, and they will be transferred to geothermals in Toruń, as promised by Minister Szyszko at hours. 2.13 one day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u292	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In several voivodships in the country, it was the voivodship environmental funds that were entrusted with the implementation of regional operational programmes. This was a practice in the previous financial perspective of the European Union, but also in this one. Are the applicants aware of the consequences of the specific state-of-the-art stateisation of the local authorities in relation to the implementation of these programmes, and whether the applicants have any idea where and whether the losses resulting from the type of manoeuvres you are doing will be covered at all, because this will certainly be significant losses for the regions that the regional environmental funds have commissioned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u294	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's philosophy of managing environmental funds is quite clear and simple. The decisions of the board, and hence the decisions concerning these funds, are put into the hands of those who are local specialists in the field, are indicated by the local government, are indicated by NGOs, i.e. those who know how these funds will work best in such a regional programme, in programmes that are being launched. It is difficult to justify, I would say, the substance of this change in the justification put forward by the applicants, which is why I wanted to ask what philosophy in this matter led applicants, because the justification which says that sometimes someone has delayed the appointment of a member of the supervisory board, and now it will be more efficient, in fact, you know, it is not serious. This is some justification for possible changes in staff, which my esteemed speakers spoke about here, and this is absolutely not supported in the new model, in a better model of impact on [[♪ The bell ♪]] local environment. And I wanted to ask you about the second thing: Why and how did this project become urgent at the Sejm Analysis Office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u296	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why this law does not have an annex - an annex that lists the people you want to hire among your colleagues from among your families. It'd be really much easier. Such a list should be useful not only in this bill, but in many, many of those that have already been adopted. But there's one thing I'm happy about. Your assassination of these positions and of the money that is in the regional environmental funds indicates one thing - that you allow the idea that you won't win the local elections because that's how you would wait and take over them naturally, legally. I'm very happy for you, and I wish you never this election. The locals didn't win. Thank you very much. [[Oh, we're all for it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u298	Mr Ireneus will gain.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last few years have been a festival of conferences, symposiums, environmental fairs and other events financed by voivodship environmental and water management funds, for which there were no significant values. They have largely been used to convert grants and grants. Many NGOs lived throughout the year with the funds entrusted on the basis of the publication of several brochures and the organisation of regional conferences. Some of the grants were aimed at the implementation of educational programmes, where not only did they not report on the effects of this education, but they also did not make it difficult to examine the effect before and after the implementation of these activities. I have a question for the applicant: Are there details of the scale of this use of funds from the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds? How many NGOs have in fact been held by voivodship funds for environment and water management? What is the scale of this phenomenon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u300	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the change in the Voivodship Environmental Fund. Is it true that our Marshal Boards, as the Civic Platform state here said, when they heard about the changes, suddenly began to award themselves amazing prizes? I'd like to hear what they were, how many people they got, if there's statistics. Is it also true that the money from the WFES was spent on office expenditures, on PR publications that really did not contribute anything to environmental issues? As for the low emissions, Minister, I would like to point out here that our Śląskie voivodship is ahead, because as many as 365 eco-stoves were financed for the voivodship - over 4 million people. The lack of transparency in spending huge money, because I could not find in BIP the total capital associated with this fund, as well as for individual voivodships. I would also like to know, as the previous speaker here said, to whom they were really directed [[♪ The bell ♪]] grants from the Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u302	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice for this parliamentary initiative. I can say that I have very extensive experience in this area: I have been twice in the supervisory boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, in Gdańsk and Olsztyn, in the beginning of the two thousand years and in 2005-2006. I must say, my experiences are not positive. Yes, these voivodship funds were operating according to the law - here nothing cannot be blamed - but among others. cases such as the appointment and dismissal of supervisory boards... The minister's motion to appoint was not in the Seym for three months, but six months. It could also be noted that those who sat on supervisory boards were not exactly professionals. They were people who very often did not want to carry out joint environmental projects. I was gonna say... This is also in the writing of a convention of marshals protesting against this law, but the marshals admit that it is the minister of the environment who creates environmental policy. It is the Minister of Environment who creates it, among others. through - it is enshrined in the law - agreeing joint ventures of voivodship funds and national environmental fund. Then these recommendations are not implemented at all. You can see very clearly local cats. This is because it is true that high subsidies are allocated to non-governmental organisations. You can even see things like the preference of individual municipalities depending on the political option. Let's not kid ourselves here, that's the situation. Besides, I would like to say that it is the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management that often grants regional funds or grants loans. [[Not for free.]] What control do the Minister of the Environment and the National Fund have over the spending of this public money? None. Only that they are watching and that they may be outraged. These actions, which are undertaken by voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, are not such great actions, ladies and gentlemen. I will give one example of low emissions from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship: a joint project of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and Voivodship Environmental Funds - a very bearable project - Prosumer. It's a project to install solar solar panels on individual homes to heat houses. It's a mediocrely perfect design. The National Fund had to give up this project. Why? Because in order to benefit from this grant scheme, you had to make your own contribution of 40,000. zł. The other 40 grand was invested. zł. Who it was for, I'm asking. Or for those poor people who don't have to replace the boilers? Definitely not. Here I still have to emphasize very strongly that this effect of smog, which is, this is not the effect of... This smog was not brought by the government or by Minister Szyszko. This smog has been created for many years. [[Exactly.]] And what we are seeing at the moment is also the lack of effective operation of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, because these funds should be helping people at the lowest levels. Right here I will be charged with the KAWKA or LIFE+ programme that there is no grant for the Małopolska voivodship. But LIFE+ was what? It was PLN 50 million for advisers who were supposed to have their jobs, not for the replacement of boilers. Ladies and gentlemen, here was a cost analysis. As a result of this change, around PLN 13 million will be saved on an annual basis. This 13 million PLN can actually be allocated to environmental effects, and if this is not the case with those events that you and your Member have been talking about, it is indeed possible to say that public money, which is actually a public tribute... This is a public tribute from the state's environmental resources. This isn't money earned by the government, and for collecting this money... What the Member says: the Marshal's offices do not collect anything for free: 3%, and perhaps more, it is different in different voivodships, from these funds goes to marshal offices. Now I have yet to answer the question of whether it is true that they are now awarding annual prizes to each other. Yeah, that's right. Annual prizes shall be awarded on the basis of annual reports. It is usually done by the end of April, but it is a strange fact that they were done in the first days of January. These are awards in the amount of three times the salary of the board of the regional fund. I have information that some funds have different sizes for board presidents, from 15,000. Up to 25,000. zł. There's a salary. And count now... [[So times three...]] If times three, we see what awards these are. And as far as I know, Madam Member, the highest salaries are in the Silesian Voivodeship. [[The highest.]] There are most deputies. So that this change is a good change, which will result in a much more efficient operation of these funds. It is not true that it will not be local funds, it will continue to be local funds, but under proper supervision, under the supervision of spending public money, I stress: public money, not local money, only public money, in a proper manner. The Ministry of Environment supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u304	And please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A number of questions were addressed to applicants, so I allow myself to speak. That was the sentence: power, money and stools for their own. I have a hot appeal to you, especially from the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, so that you do not measure us with your measure, ladies and gentlemen, because what you create in the voivodship's environmental funds are specific manor houses, and that needs to be stopped. And if we say that voivodship environmental funds have funds of about PLN 2 billion a year, and the national environmental fund has resources of PLN 2.5 billion without EU funds, please note: the national environmental fund, which manages similar funds, manages four board members and 12 board members, and those voivodship funds, which also have PLN 2 billion a year, manages more than 50 board members and 112 board members. Please note, we want to reduce these issues and we want to limit... If, in the first place, we achieve an additional 13 million PLN of savings during the year, these funds will mainly go to those municipalities that need support, aid that have problems with environmental measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about voivodships, 16 voivodships, management of voivodships, marshals. But please note one thing. Not so long ago, it is a voivodship environmental fund in the previous EU perspective. Very often they have implemented a number of actions related to the spending of EU funds, and this has been done by all voivodship environmental funds. On the one hand, they carried out actions in the field of the Operational Programme of the National Infrastructure and Environment, such as water and sewerage projects, sewage treatment plants or waste management, but also all voivodship environmental funds carried out tasks within the framework of regional operational programmes. Notice, it's a vast majority. Please note what happened at the moment. What happened at the moment? At the moment, practically unfortunately, they have resigned, and I must say this to you, because the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did so. You have done something about the fact that voivodship environmental funds are neither implementing bodies nor institutions implementing various environmental mechanisms implemented under European Union programmes. It was undoubtedly one of the major mistakes of recent years, the error resulting from your decision. Ladies and gentlemen, such situations should not happen. I hope that these decisions that we are taking at the moment and which will aim to improve the functioning of the voivodship environmental funds will also help to change the perception of the actions that the voivodship environmental funds are taking, so that these funds, which are currently mostly spent on loans, are implemented in order to increase the pool of funds that will be allocated to grants. This is the optimal solution. On the one hand, the loan is very good, because these are additional income and financial resources, this money is traded when it comes to voivodship environmental funds, but we also need to subsidize, subsidise those municipalities that are not doing well, are weak and need support when it comes to environmental measures. And I am convinced that we will be able to do this in terms of a year or the next two years and that we could do this. Ladies and gentlemen! Please also note that voivodship environmental funds are very, very often seen as institutions where municipalities... Here I have an example from the Mazowieckie voivodship, from the municipality of Radom, from my region, that the management of the voivodship, the management of the voivodship environmental fund, is sceptical about projects which are presented by, in quotes, opposition to Marshal Struzik. You have to come, you have to come, you have to come, you have to hat, you have to ask, and other local governments don't have the slightest problem with getting money from regional environmental funds. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we want to improve and we want to change that. First of all, we want everyone to have equal access - regardless of whether the community is governed by the PSL, the Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, or one that is a partyless professional - so that we all have equal access to these EU funds on the same rights, so that there is no favoritisation of some, because local elections are coming, because there is a need to finance the purchase of a fire car, and there is a need to finance it, because the governor is less able to handle some other projects, because local elections are coming up. This is the kind of action that needs to be stopped, and I'm sure we can do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u306	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship (print No 1195). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present today the third project with its first reading, and which is part of the so-called. a package of 100 changes for companies prepared by the Ministry of Development. This time it is a draft amendment to the Law on Measurements, which includes both changes in the organisation of the Main Office of Measurements and changes in certain procedures. Let me make this brief. Generally speaking, metrology is a science about measurements and their applications, which - I think it can be said - is somewhat underestimated, and which is actually unnoticed. He's with us every day. Measurements, and this is important in terms of precisely the objectives of this revision, are at the heart of technological development in almost all areas of the modern economy and enable it to function efficiently and develop. The aim of metrology is primarily to ensure fairness and certainty of economic turnover, and with the development of industry - also technical and production security, but also to stimulate innovation. For example, measurement methods are now widely used in, for example, analyses on climate change or carbon emissions. In all developed countries, a special unit is responsible for maintaining and managing the national measurement system. With us this function is performed by the Main Office of Measurements, whose main objective is to ensure measurement consistency for measurements carried out in the area of economy, science and social life. Today's office structure is headquarters, nine district offices and 58 regional offices. But what is also important from the point of view of this amendment is that GUM is not only an office, but these are primarily laboratories of metrology plants with scientists working in them. And this is the resource and potential that should be better used for the economy, because GUM as a national metrology unit should serve the development of Polish industry. This potential, in our opinion, is also confirmed in conversations or after numerous consultations with the industry environment, is not fully exploited and these solutions, which are today, are not fully suited to the challenges posed by the Metrology industry, the modern economy. Hence the need to extend the GUM's catalogue of activities and changes in its structure in order to actually adapt the functioning of this office to the challenges of the economy. This is related, for example, to changes that occur in computer science, robotics, automation or the development of nanotechnology. These phenomena are now facing completely new challenges for metrology, and new areas are developing, where metrology has a very important role to play, such as. pharmacy, biotechnology, medicine, food safety, energy, environmental protection, combating climate change, information exchange technologies, satellite techniques, protection of citizens' privacy, protection against terrorism, new military technologies and even the issue of anti-doping research. Therefore, in fact, metrology should be, in some ways, a forge of new technological processes, but with a very wide application. Here, too, we can draw attention to the correlation between metrology, technical regulations and innovation. Technical regulations have this positive impact on innovation, which is confirmed by scientific research, and the greatest benefits for innovation are when they give businesses a great deal of freedom to choose the measures they can achieve to meet the requirements of technical law in the form of general product quality parameters. or technological processes. This is how innovation in technology is created, but also in organisational solutions. An element, or even - I would say even - the basis of many such works in turn are measurement operations, because without them it is often impossible to reach optimal solutions. The consultations that we conducted in both the scientific and industrial environment together with the Main Office of Measurements have shown the need to change the tasks and activities of the Main Office of Measurements and to adapt them precisely to the challenges of the innovative economy. Here the amendment focuses primarily on the introduction of key tasks of the President for the development of innovation tasks related to research, development, supporting, inspiring the development of national industry through technology transfer. These tasks will be carried out, in particular, through consultation, technical advice on instruments, methods, measurement technologies, organisation and training, as well as research on measurement and measurement technologies. In this way, technical solutions needed by industry to implement a specific product or technology will also be discussed. For example, we are now discussing the introduction in Poland of a system for dynamic measurement of vehicle mass in motion, which is important from the point of view of GDDKiA or ITD. And just to play a central role in this work will be imposed on the Main Office of Measures from the point of view of carrying out various kinds of tests and studies. Therefore, the imposition on GUM of these obligations and, on the other hand, competence whether the powers will make it possible to say, perhaps a little simpler, Polish companies, various kinds of industrial companies, laboratories, scientific institutions will again obtain in the Polish country a partner in the form of an institution which has access to unique technological knowledge and whose statutory task will be already to support industry in various forms tailored to its needs. And here GUM will be obliged to share its know-how with industry, to respond to its needs, to initiate joint projects, for example through European programmes. Until now, the activities of the GUM in this area have been limited and, in the case of cooperation with the industry, even trace. This is the main objective that we have here in order to change the profile of the Main Office of Measurements. In order to plan our business, we also introduce strategic planning into the office - it is important that it is closely correlated with the objectives of the Polish economy, with the interests of industrial enterprises. The GUM will establish a Metrology Council which will be responsible for the substantive supervision of the GUM. What is important, the Council will focus in equal proportions representatives of industry, science and state institutions. In this respect, entrepreneurs will also have an impact on the functioning of the Main Office of Measurements and the evaluation of its functioning, and the Council will be given specific tools in this regard. The implementation of the long-standing demands of industrial companies, in particular those which operate on a mass scale, is also an opportunity to use the so-called ones more widely than today. statistical validation. This is, you can say, a deregulation change, because the current method is to check each individual unit, each instrument and, of course, it is time-consuming, cost-consuming, requires the involvement of significant resources. We want to allow more use of the statistical method, which is the method according to which the test is subjected to a representative sample taken at random from a given batch of measuring instruments. This will, of course, reduce the costs of measurements mainly borne by companies. In the project we also propose provisions that should help to address the problem of incorrect use of measuring instruments. Here, I think the loudest thing is measuring instruments in the form of meters at fuel stations. There's a lot of irregularities found here by NIK, for example. It is also about rationalisation, because we introduce or propose to introduce an institution so-called. temporary withdrawal of instruments from the market where they do not comply with certain requirements. There is no such temporary withdrawal from the market today, and therefore this device is permanently withdrawn, because restoring it, so to speak, is much more complicated to the market. Here there will be a time limit for such freezing of an instrument in order to renew the validity of these tests and so that the trader can market the instrument more quickly. There are also some changes in the sealing of the control system, such as sanctions. Today is so - it seems, curiosity, it should be changed - that with acts of involuntary and deliberate, there is an identical threat of punishment. The project also provides for flattening the field structure of the measurement administration by abolishing the peripheral measurement offices and setting up local branches in their place. This also helps users, especially entrepreneurs, to make access to measuring services easier, because today, let's say, there is a kind of connection between an entrepreneur and a given peripheral measurement office, which causes, if the individual peripheral measurement offices do not have a similar burden, that some entrepreneurs can wait weeks to carry out legalization studies and at another office the potential is simply untapped. Therefore, here entrepreneurs will have much more flexible access to GUM field units. In conclusion, the amendment is intended to make the national industry in the form of a Polish office, the Main Office of Measures, a partner who, as I said, has access to unique technological knowledge and whose statutory task will now be to support industry in various forms. We hope that this will also enable entrepreneurs to gain efficient and flexible measures, also more effective market surveillance, because this is also the task of the office - to ensure fair competition between entrepreneurs. Statistical validation will reduce costs, reduce bureaucratic Mitra. I think that this will benefit primarily from entrepreneurs involved in the transmission of media such as gas, water and energy. The proposed changes mean benefits for entrepreneurs, but above all, the implementation of particularly industrial, but also scientific demands to increase the role of GUM in the field of technology transfer to industry. The technical requirements, as I said at the beginning, for the various areas of the economy, whether environmental or safety-related, which are precisely defined in the framework, are one of the most effective incentives for innovation. Technological progress offers the opportunity to reduce administrative or control burdens. So, on the one hand, it is driving progress, but progress also makes it possible to mitigate administrative and control burdens on companies later. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I ask you to refer the draft amendment to further parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u308	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Paweł Lisiecki will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in voivodship, print No 1195. The main task of metrology, i.e. the science of measurement methods and the principles of interpretation of the results obtained, is to ensure, as the Minister has already said here, the integrity and certainty of economic turnover, and with the development of industry also technical and production security. The rapid and energetic technological development of the modern economy means that metrology must also change. These are growing new areas of the economy in which metrology is applied and which could not grow intensively without it. This is linked, on the one hand, to the general tendency to create smaller and smaller products, and on the other, to the development of techniques that enable man to create various structures, even at the level of individual atoms and molecules. This creates a situation where measurement technologies are at the heart of development in almost all areas of the modern economy. With the change in the role of metrology in the economy and social life, the functions of the state associated with this metrology are also changing. In the case of measuring instruments, the verification and approval of the types of measuring equipment and the entire legal metrology control, which has so far been the substance of the public authority in this area, shall be replaced by tests of compliance with international standards carried out by market operators or by the manufacturer himself. On the other hand, the role of the State is focused on investing in R &amp; D projects and technology transfer in order to promote the competitiveness of the national industry. The legislative changes proposed by the government aim at a number of different tasks. First of all, they aim to clarify the legal nature of the verification institution, to improve the carrying out of legal metrology checks at the place of installation or use of the measuring instrument, to eliminate interpretation doubts, to enable the re-certification of measuring instruments legally placed on the market and used not only as a result of conformity assessment, and finally to introduce the possibility of re-certification of a homogeneous batch of measuring instruments so-called. the statistical method and its definition. In addition, the project envisages simplifying the field structure of the measurement administration by transforming existing regional offices into local districts. The number of out-of-town departments is not expected to change in relation to the number of existing out-of-town offices. The current three-level structure with narrow local characteristics makes it difficult to use existing resources of measurement administration flexibly and efficiently and complicates decision-making processes. This is because at the moment there are as many as 58 circuits, each of which should work formally only in the area of its properties. In addition, the Act provides for the establishment of a long-standing Metrology Council which would bring together experts working with the Main Office of Measurements. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of sending the project to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u310	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present an opinion to the government draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in voivodship, print no 1195. This project contains very profound changes. It concerns institutional reform of the Main Office of Measurements. It is about redefining and re-orienting tasks, changing legal status, introducing strategic planning and reporting on the implementation of plans, setting up a Metrology Council and reforming the structure of the field administration by transforming peripheral offices into district departments. It should be borne in mind that national regulations in the area of metrology remain strongly influenced by European regulations. The purpose of metrology is to ensure the fairness and certainty of economic turnover, as was mentioned before me. Metrology is finding new applications related to miniaturization and nanotechnology. The new fields of development of metrology are pharmacy, medical biotechnology, energy, environmental protection, satellite technology, military and many, many others. It can be said that measuring technologies are at the heart of development in almost all areas of the modern economy. Here, a proper question should be asked about the role to be played by the State, because national metrology institutions are generally state owned and financed, of course, by state resources, although they can also generate revenue. In Poland, the NMI is equivalent to the Main Office of Measures. The structure of this office is three-layered: president, 9 districts, 58 circuits. The legislator proposes changes to the organisational structure. They are designed to eliminate these 58 regional offices and to replace them with 58 out-of-town departments. This is another example of filling jobs and working for your own. The legislator says it's tidying up and simplifying. This is, ladies and gentlemen, fiction. Leave it all the same by changing the staff. Unfortunately, this always affects the quality of the institution, and the state remains deaf to these arguments. In the work of the committee or subcommittee, which may be set up at second reading, we will, of course, work on all substantive changes. We are aware that reform is needed, and if there are substantive changes, we will certainly accept them. The establishment of the Metrology Council should maintain a balance between three groups: government institutions, industry and science. It may also seem beneficial for the President of the GUM to gain the power to carry out scientific and research and development activities on a continuous basis and this can also have a positive impact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u312	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship with draft implementing acts. Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns institutional reform of the Main Office of Measurements, i.e. redefining and refocusing tasks, changing legal status, introducing strategic and forward-looking instruments in planning the activities of the GUM and reporting on the implementation of plans, setting up a Metrology Council responsible for the substantive supervision of the Main Office of Measurements, reforming the structures of the field administration by transforming peripheral offices into district departments. The aim of the amendment is to reform the Main Office of Measurements. This institution is intended to support the development of national industry and to conduct and coordinate research and development in the area of measurement technologies. The envisaged solutions are part of the Responsible Development Plan. The proposed amendment also provides for the appointment of a Metrology Council with the President of the GUM. The Board's tasks will include the assessment of the state and direction of development of Polish metrology, the activity of the substantive administration of measurements, the 4-year strategic plan of the GUM and the annual plans of the institution and their implementation reports. The Council will also have the right to inspect the documentation of the measurement administration and participate in the process of selecting the President of the institution. The bill also provides for the reform of administrative structures on the ground, the liquidation of peripheral measuring offices. As has been said, it's 58 cells. According to the reasons given, the regional offices will be transformed into local districts, but the normative text of the project provides that the minister responsible for economic affairs may establish and endure the local departments of these offices, taking into account the need for metrology activities in the various regions. The amendment is also intended to introduce the possibility of a wider use of the so-called. statistical validation, i.e. selective submission of control counters, also at the verification of re-entry. The draft law also proposes regulations to address the problem of incorrect use of measuring instruments, temporary withdrawal of the measuring instrument from the market and increased sanctions for violation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is in favour of referring this law to further work in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u314	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern presentation of the position to the government bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. This is print number 1195. The amendment of the Act concerns institutional reform of the Main Office of Measurements by redefining and re-orienting tasks, changing legal status, introducing strategic instruments and forward-looking planning of actions of the Main Office of Measurements and reporting on implementation of plans. The beginning sounds interesting, because if we reach back memory, in fact the Marshal Piłsudski's decree created the idea of establishing this institution and I have the impression that it is a kind of lifting, but the project assumes the creation of a Metrology Council, which is responsible for the substantive supervision of the Main Office of Measurements, reformes the structure of the field administration after transforming the regional offices into district departments. Sounds familiar, like a staff. The project has been consulted with the measurement bodies, institutions, manufacturers, market operators and users of these instruments and economic organisations representing the abovementioned operators. Indeed, this sounds interesting because any comments on the entries in the amended law have been taken into account or not, more or less justified. The objective is to reform the Main Office of Measurements. It is a fact that the institution is to support the development of the national industry and to conduct and coordinate research and development in the area of measurement technologies. After the amendment, the Main Office of Measures is to become a partner for entrepreneurs. Here I will quote some words: He will share his know-how and access to unique technological knowledge. The Main Office of Measures is expected to respond to the needs of industry and initiate joint projects with it. Sounds decent. Let's hope that's really how it's done. The proposed amendment also provides for the appointment of a Metrology Council at the President of the Main Office of Measurements. The task of the board will be to evaluate the state and direction of development of the Polish metrology, the activity of the substantive administration of measurements, the four-year strategic plan of the Main Office of Measurements and the annual action plans of the Main Office of Measurements and the reports on their implementation. The Council is also to have the right to review the documentation of the measurement administration and to participate in the selection process of the President of the Main Office of Measurements. The members of the Council are to be appointed by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. It will be composed of representatives of science and representatives of state institutions involved in metrology issues. Here, too, we see another basis for creating new jobs. The draft law also provides for the reform of the structure of the field administrations of measurements. The regional offices will be transformed into the local departments of the district offices. I read: The new solution will allow for more efficient and flexible management of infrastructure, human and financial resources within the district structure, i.e. the possibility of certain specialisation of local departments and the temporary posting of workers to control economic operators operating in other departments, according to the actual need for metrology activities. Are you sure? Isn't this about the HR exchange? The amendment is also intended to introduce the possibility of a wider use of the so-called. statistical validation, i.e. selective submission of control counters, also at the verification of re-entry. This is the implementation of the long-standing demand of industrial companies to ensure that in certain areas where mass-scale measuring devices are put on the market, this is particularly true for media such as gas, water, energy and demand. The draft law also proposes provisions to address the problem of incorrect use of measuring instruments, which concerns the temporary withdrawal of the measuring instrument from the market and the increase of sanctions for infringements of the law. Many issues are actually the answer to our expectations, and therefore Modern is in favour of directing the project to work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u316	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, I have come here to argue with the Minister about the changes that the government is proposing. The Law on the Main Office of Measurements is an important law, because it is an institution that plays such a role as support for many institutions, a role of service, sharing their experiences, their knowledge. I wouldn't go so far that by changing, giving additional competences, we're gonna revitalize innovation, it's gonna have a huge impact on that. We still have many research institutes, we have universities, and the Main Office of Measures has played such a service role, and it will play, which is why I think it's a bit exaggerated, this catalogue of profits that will be for this reason that we will change the bill. Of course, some technical things are on the way, because time is moving forward and you have to change, because it's not those times anymore, there are space clocks that are already operating out there, and this modernity is going to be, we don't know what we're going to have in the future. It seems that this law is another human resources act, because why should a change of structure be used? I can't believe PiS would give up on this field. This is an opportunity to exchange personnel. I think that's what's gonna happen. If not, the Minister will correct me, life and time will show. That's where the professionals are needed. Here you can no longer random Misiewiczs, as it is said at the moment, hire, because this is an institution that really has to have this scientific level and requires good professionals. If it's an exchange, it's for better professionals. The Polish People's Party will support these solutions, we are in favour of directing them to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u318	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. This bill is an extremely important amendment for Polish entrepreneurs, especially for manufacturing companies. The proposed amendments aim to create a partner from the Office for Measurements, who would share their knowledge with them and support their development through the initiation of joint projects. Following the introduction of the proposed solutions in the framework of its core tasks, the Main Office of Measures will pay more attention to conducting research and development that can contribute to the development of the Polish economy. The establishment of the Metrology Council, which will consist of representatives of state institutions, industry and science, and which will be responsible for overseeing the operation of the Main Office of Measurements, will give entrepreneurs a real impact on the choice of directions and priorities for this institution. It is also important that strategic planning instruments and reporting requirements are put in place to ensure that these actions can be implemented in a way that will enable them to be implemented. more efficient and more effective. The contested bill also provides for a reform of the structure of the field administration of the Main Office of Measures. Projectors predict that this will be another good step towards entrepreneurs. The result of this reform is to be a more efficient and efficient administration, which controls the proper functioning of the market. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, recognising the importance of measurement technologies for the development of the economy, and recognising the need for changes in this area of regulation, supports the further process of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u320	Thank you, Member. Four MPs signed up for the questions. If there aren't more people willing, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome, Mr. Krzysztof Szczurowski, aren't you? Szulowski, I'm sorry. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the general opinion, solutions operating in Poland in the field of metrology, including the activities of the Main Office of Measures, do not conform to the modern, extremely fast-growing - I also mean the area of technology - the world. The Main Office of Measures in Poland in practice performs the tasks outlined many years ago, is typically an administrative structure and certainly does not fulfil the tasks of similar institutions in other highly developed countries. I am referring specifically to the tasks of initiating research projects, technology transfer to industry, expert functions and contacts with the world of advanced technologies. That's what the Minister said. And my question: In what time frame can the proposed mechanisms and solutions and with what means, according to the Ministry, lead to the achievement of the objectives? And the second question is about tasks, let's call it this, from the area of traditional, already implemented, legal metrology control of measuring instruments. Here, too, it is widely believed that controls - and their effects - relating to the regularity of devices having an impact on the everyday life of each of us, consumers, e.g. fuel distributors or water meters were insignificant and thus improved the situation to too little extent. Will the bill affect this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u322	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u323	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I'm going to ask you something else, because I'd like to know everything, even though it's impossible to find out everything. In addition to this staff thread, which is undoubtedly in this, I would like to ask how many workers will change the status of field workers and what their status will be after the change of structure. But the next question is about financial resources, because the scope of these new things that GUM should be doing is very wide, very wide. This is related to innovation, modernity. These are expensive things, like the classic once said. They say these are expensive things and they need a lot of money for that. Is such appropriations foreseen in the budget of the Main Office of Measures? Where's the money coming from? Some come from service activities, but I think that for such serious tasks, such a wide range of them should be additional power supply. Are the measures secured at the Main Office of Measurements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u324	Mr Sylvester Khrushch. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a quick question. What is the guarantee that all the peripheral measuring offices - these 58 branches - will be transformed into long-distance units? I don't think that's part of the bill. So will we all transform them, or is there a plan to reduce this number or to transform them somehow, institutionalize them, profile specific departments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u326	And as the last question, Mr Paweł Lisiecki asks. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Law on Measurements is one of the most important laws in each country. It de facto decides that the state is also law-abiding. Meanwhile, most emotions, I see, are raised by matters related to the reorganisation of the Main Office of Measurements - you could say: hit the table and the scissors will talk - and most questions are asked by those who think in terms of staff categories. But I have this question: could the projector give some insight into the statistical method to be introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u328	Thank you. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will actually start with this thread, which has taken the most place and time here, and I admit that it was of marginal importance in government-level work and was practically not discussed. I've got a feeling. as to the comment on this subject, which was launched by the Minister, Mrs Nemś, as if we were talking here about some lucrative positions with great pay, connected with doing nothing. This, of course, is something that we need to realise that we are not talking about such positions and that no one in the Ministry of Development, when planning these changes, thought in such categories. The change in the organisation of local centres results from talks with entrepreneurs wishing to be able to choose more flexible offices where they are subject to obligations of various types of calibration, measurement, legalization, etc. In order not to be literal, I will only read the draft art. 5: On the date of the abolition of the administration of the measures - the district heads of the measurement offices and the liquidation of the peripheral measuring offices: 1) the heads of the regional measurement offices which are not members of the corps (...) become civil servants employed in the relevant local district measurement offices; 2) Employees employed in the peripheral measurement offices become employees of the competent local measuring offices. Automatically by law, these people move from one organizational structure to another, without de facto changing the workplace, so I hope that this provision will allow to overthrow the staff myth of the purpose of this law and to calm the concerns. As regards questions about the temporal aspect, when these objectives were achieved, the President of the Main Office of Measures has already begun to change the functioning of the office and has now started to form joint teams with representatives of industry and science. We also started working with other state institutions, I gave here an example of GDDKiA, etc., where we want to work using GUM, in terms of various types of tests, measurements, tests to create a dynamic mass measurement system in motion, which will include. it was used to prevent the degradation of our roads. For all reasons, the GDDKiA is committed to this, but this also applies to countering unfair competition when businesses or entities that exceed the limit compete unfairly with those who respect it. Today's stationary control does not satisfy these needs, so these actions have already begun slowly. However, change is also needed in order to strengthen access or really to give access to the Main Office of Measures also to European funds from various programmes. For this, a new task of the Main Office of Measurements is needed. With regard to legal checks - and this is what he asked - we are introducing temporary withdrawal, although this is actually a means of rationalising the rules, but we are increasing, for example. the level of risk with regard to acts carried out intentionally and with direct intent. We've doubled the penalty risk here. In fact, the statistical method is also used to make services more flexible, because they can focus on areas where controls can be more effective and can be carried out using statistical methods, but also risk analysis. Mr Kasprzak also asked about the budget in addition to the staff issues. I hope I've cleared up the staff issue. As far as the budget is concerned, the 2017 budget has been extended to the Main Office of Measures precisely in view of the prospect of entering into force of the changes we are discussing today. The amendment is also intended to allow European funds to be used. Mr Khrushcz asked if all peripheral centres would become long-distance centres - yes. Mr Lisiecki asked about the statistical method. Suppose, in a batch of control instruments, it will be subject to e.g. every 10th instrument, this is particularly important for mass service providers. The details will be in the implementing acts, in the regulation, but I think we will want to use the risk analysis method to investigate statistical methods for those entrepreneurs who do not generate risks, i.e. who provide these instruments, have been monitored for years and there is no irregularity there so that fewer instruments can be measured there and more focus where there is a higher risk. And today just every instrument in the whole series is controlled one by one, which is obviously not the most effective method of control nowadays - these are the changes that we adopted in November and which entered into force on 1 January. Please note that we are moving all inspections and all control authorities to a risk analysis check just to increase the efficiency of these services and, on the one hand, to benefit, of course, from the public interest, but on the other hand, to reduce the control burden associated with the operation of companies that do not pose a risk of generating any irregularities, and to focus on those areas where this risk is greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u330	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm forward a draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship from print No 1195 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts (print No 1181). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u331	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The proposed amendments to the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts are designed to organise the system of operation of the directors of courts in order to improve the efficiency of staff management in common courts with regard to the positions of directors and their alternates. In particular, they concern the rules governing the appointment and dismissal of the directors of the courts and their alternates, the rules governing the duties of the directors of the courts, as well as the taking by the Presidents of the courts of activities with financial implications. The draft provides for a clear separation between the functions of judicial administration falling within the competence of the President of the Court in the performance of judicial tasks and administrative activities falling within the competence of the Director of the Court. The draft introduces changes to the service liability of the Director of the Court. According to this project, the head of the court's director will be the Minister of Justice, while the President of the court will perform labour law activities in relation to the head of the court, except, of course, those reserved for the Minister of Justice. In line with the proposed draft arrangements, the appointment and dismissal of the directors of the courts and the deputy directors of the courts will take place on the basis of the establishment of the Labour Code. Importantly, High Sejm, the requirements of the candidates for the post of director and deputy director of the court have been respected. Therefore, as has been the case so far, these will be high criteria, high requirements to be met to apply for such a position. With regard to the appointment of deputy directors of the courts, the principle is maintained that appointment to that position is possible if special considerations so warrant, including the size of the court and the size of its tasks. The High Seym, the system we're dealing with today, is malfunctioning. I think that you yourselves have been able to determine this by observing recently what was happening in the courts, whether in Krakow or in Wrocław, and the courts responsible for it. If we do not learn from this, we can ask the question: What will we learn from? In addition - it is no secret - for years one of the most serious problems affecting the Polish justice system is the chronicity of court proceedings. In particular, when judicial representatives are asked what this chronicity comes from, it is often the answer that judges have too many tasks, which cause them to be pulled away from case law. It's a recipe. It means that we are now talking straight: the President of the Court will no longer have to take an interest in administrative, financial, and budgeted by the Minister of Finance in the area, and he will be able to focus on case law, which is what he is called for to do. So it's very clear. That is: management of funds and current administrative matters - the director of the court, that is his task; case law and other previous tasks - the President of the court. There you go, now the presidents of the court will have more time to deal with what they cared so much about. That is why this project organizes many organisational and formal issues in the current functioning of the institution, which are common courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u332	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of my club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, against the government's draft law amending the Law on the System of Universal Courts. The general point is that my club supports the government's submission in all its lengths. That's the right thing to do. For the first time since the director's institution was introduced into the courts, these matters have been settled. This arrangement primarily concerns the functioning of the judicial administration. The power of this law, which I hope will be passed, will be the separation of this administration. In the hands of the President of the Court, a typical administration will be linked primarily to the supervision of matters of case law, while matters relating to the financial economy and staff will be in the hands of the Director. The most important thing in this decision is that the head of the court will be the Minister of Justice. The Director of the Court shall cease to be a judicial authority. Until now, the Law on the System of General Courts has sanctioned the office of director of the court as a judicial authority. This amendment will result in the judicial authorities being the President of the Court and, in the District Court and in the Appeal Court, the College of the Court. The revision is necessary. I will remind you that we have been opposed in previous terms to introducing the director's institution to the courts, but since this has happened, it is time to sort things out. The experience is such, mentioned here today by, for example, the Minister. the case in the Court of Appeal in Cracow, as well as in other courts, where there has been enormous corruption. It can't be that way. Finally, the Minister of Justice must also have oversight of the directors of the courts. This is a good decision against what the opposition is trying to say today, because I know that there have already been press conferences today, that this is an attempt on the independence of the courts and on judicial independence. On the contrary, this amendment strengthens the position of independent courts and independent judges, because, finally, today the President of the Court will deal with... it will be up to his administration to uphold the case law of the courts. And I am convinced that the separation of the issue of administration, the typical administration, and thus the budgetary issues, because it is also necessary to say that the director of the court will be the budgetary manager here, the first after the Minister of Justice, in the context of the financing of the justice system, this is a good thing, because this separation will also be able to free judges from this financial responsibility for the functioning of the administration. Once again, I would like to declare that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports in all its lengths the presentation of governmental amendments to the Law on the system of common courts and we will be in committee's work... I would like to propose that this be the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the draft of this law, be sent to the committee responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u334	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, in the bill we're considering, you really want to lower the rank of court directors, you want to subdue them to the minister and leave all the powers that have been given. And it must be borne in mind how the function of director of the court has evolved, that he has actually become a serious partner for the President of the court and for the minister as the authorising officer of the budget. He became a judicial authority just to relieve the President of the court of all administrative matters. And now, on the one hand, you would like him to continue to carry out the functions assigned to him in the article. 31a, i.e. to be the head of administrative staff, to be the authorising officer of the budget, to represent the Treasury, etc., but on the other hand, it ceases to be a judicial authority. And now I don't know if he's gonna be able to represent it in the courts if he doesn't have any ID. Because the state, I mean. In fact, we... It might be another way. We created the function of director as the chancellor of the court, so that he would be such a representative of the administrative part in the court, had a strong, stand-alone position, was appointed as a result of the competition, i.e. he was appointed by the minister, because it did not change, but was presented by the President of the court and had to be held in advance. And you want him from the chancellor to become the governor of the minister because you're eliminating the element of the contest, removing the element of calling or pointing out by the President of the court. We have always wanted him to be held in this court, and you want him to be directly attached to the minister, and yet you do not know exactly how the minister will manage him. Because, look, you're writing that he's going to be subject to the minister's authority. But what powers would that be? What will the Minister be able to command, and what will he not be able to command the directors of the courts? And that, I think, is very dangerous. Because in our concept, the one that currently functions, the head of the court is closely connected with the court, with the general assembly, in some way with the president, because he chooses it in this competition and is appointed by the minister, i.e. there must be the agreement of all these bodies. And today, in this version you are proposing, it will be in such a way that the Minister will give whomever he wants. And here you kindly say that you leave the powers to perform the functions set out in the bill - fortunately - but no one will be consulted at all with the judicial community, with the President of the court. As Law and Justice or Solidarna Polska will want to have their nominate in every county court, you will put your officer there and he will now simply be the head of the court. It can often be in conflict with the local judicial community, resulting in only problems. This will in no way improve the work, but will only burn the situation and can really cause conflicts. It's also because of ignorance, because it's different when that director was in that court or he was in the competition and he's been in some sort of qualification, he's been in conversations, he's had to learn it, and it's different when he's the governor of the district courthouse in X or Y. And that's what we're afraid of. We believe that this model with competitions and presentation by the President of the Court was the best one to choose from. And in what you are proposing, it is to be the governors, the ministerial nominators, who will not be fully aware of their competence and to what extent they will be accountable to the Minister and to which extent they will be accountable to the President. There's only gonna be one big mess. I therefore request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u336	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u337	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Act amending the Law on the System of Universal Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the main principles of the bill are primarily to deprive today's directors of the position of the judicial authority. The directors of the courts are to be appointed only in appeals, district courts and district courts, where there are ten judges' and assessors' posts. The head of the courts is to be the Minister of Justice from now on, and labour law activities are to be carried out by that Director. The Director is to be appointed and dismissed by the Minister of Justice, which is different from what is happening at the moment. The competition presented us with a candidacy, and - what Mr Kropiwnicki just said - has so far been presented by the President of the Court to the Minister of Justice. And there's gonna be a liquidation of the competitions for the position of director. The project almost fully subordinates the directors of the courts to the government. The liquidation of competitions guarantees that these posts will be filled with people who are currently trusted by the governing team. This is particularly important because the director of the court manages his financial economy. In our opinion, the bill submitted may raise doubts as to its compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is primarily about art. 10, Art. 60 or Art. 173. There is no particular competence in the law for those new directors who are not supposed to be judicial authorities, but who is not really known. Since the entry into force of the bill submitted, the court has been re-established as the President of the Court, and the director with very high powers will not represent the court from now on and will be the representative of the Minister of Justice. Therefore, we hope that during the second reading this structure will somehow be straightened out, because in the submitted shape it is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u338	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Why? Firstly, the removal of the Director of the status of a judicial authority and the transfer of all powers to the Director under the Minister of Justice lead in fact to the loss of financial independence by the courts. This violates the constitutional principle of judicial independence from other authorities. Secondly, the proposed amendment, which provides that the Director loses the status of the body, entails the deprivation of independence and responsibility for the decisions taken. Thirdly, the appointment of directors without a competition violates the Constitution as it is not possible for applicants to participate in a transparent competition, the appointment depends only on the discretionary decision of the Minister, on which there is no appeal. Fourthly, the withdrawal of the Director without any justification should not take place at all. The appeal shall indicate the substantive grounds. Already in 2013, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that the general assemblies of the judges of appeal and the Presidents of the court should have a significant impact on the appeal of the director of the court. Fifthly, the act of the President not included in the financial plan requires the prior approval of the Director, which aims to limit his competence and authority arising from the employment relationship, e.g. in terms of motivating workers to better work. Sixthly, the proposed amendment poses a risk to the performance by judges of the statutory obligation to improve professional qualifications, e.g. because of the lack of training without the approval of the Director, and in fact without the Minister's consent. After seven, the Director's loss of the status of the body will lead to the loss of his power to represent the court before the labour court in the event of a dispute with the employees. This poses a threat to the division of competences and responsibility. For example, the President will represent the court in a dispute with the employee to the extent that it falls within the competence of the Director. It is worrying to say that the Presidents will be able to submit to a greater degree... to stress the tasks of supervising judicial proceedings. Why? Because, according to the Constitution, the Presidents have no control over the sphere of judgments and should not have it. They should not have it in a democratic state of law. It is not true that the proposed changes will affect the efficiency of the courts, because imagine: the President must ask the Director and the Director of the Minister of Justice. It extends over time. The project has been consulted with several different institutions and these opinions leave no doubt that this is a bad project. The Ministry should listen to these comments. I myself have been a judge, Minister, for over 20 years, and I know what I am saying today from this speaker: this project will not improve justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u340	Thank you. There is still time for the Modern Club, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts by PiS, along with other ideas for the degradation of the judiciary, is in fact simply the introduction of the back door for the control of politicians over the judiciary. If we compare the judiciary to the car, the judges will still hold the steering wheel after this law, but it will be PiS who will decide how to refuel. Under the amendment, the director of the court will no longer be the authority of the court subordinate to the President. Only the Minister of Justice, who will appoint and dismiss the court's directors and their deputies in a completely arbitrary manner, is to be his superior. PiS will have full freedom to fill these posts. The Act does not provide for any control of the judicial authorities over directors. Thus, it is in serious breach of the Constitution: Article. 10 - the division and balance of the authorities, Art. 60 - the right of citizens to have access to public service on an equal basis, Article. 173 - the separation and independence of courts from other authorities. What does that mean in practice? If the court gives an unfavorable judgment, such as: the one in Suwałki about the election meeting of the candidate PiS to the Senate, it is the director controlled by PiS can e.g. completely halt the renovations of this court. Controlled by the PiS court director as head of administrative staff Maybe it's also for example. Retrieving the entire service of the secretariat to the disobedient to the magistrate's authority, he may stop updating access to computer programs by withdrawing the possibility of acting as judge to the time of King Age, deprive him of training. In practice, the head of the court will become a tool for paralyzing the inconvenient judges of the PiS. They will still remain judges, but their ability to judge can be almost completely blocked. After the introduction of this law, the relations between the PiS Minister of Justice and the President of the Court will look like [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like between a parent and a teenager asking for an allowance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u342	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u343	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the government draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, contained in print No. 1181. I agree with one slogan from the Minister, perhaps to the surprise of the Minister. Namely, steps must be taken to improve the functioning of the courts. At the same time, however, I have the impression that this slogan or thesis about the need to improve the work of judges is not used for the first time to construct projects which, unfortunately, either do not have much in common with this assumption, or simply in the world go completely past this goal, passing this matter. I'm gonna go over this. Of course, there are many beautiful words in the explanatory memorandum, but to get to the bottom of this - it has been repeated by the previous speakers - I would like to say that it is clear that the forced changes in the judiciary unfortunately bring nothing but problems. This kind of dualism, which in most courts through these changes would arise, unfortunately with this improvement of work will have little in common, but rather it will be as it usually happens, that where two rule, there is nothing good but conflicts and often also paralysis of such institutions. Someone will say that the heads of the courts dealing only with technical matters do not have to be independent of the executive authority. However, it must not be forgotten that the organisation and functioning of the judicial administration have a significant impact on the exercise of justice and the exercise of legal protection tasks. Unfortunately, the submission of court directors gives the Minister of Justice an unfettered opportunity to interfere in the technical and organisational conditions and property of the courts, and this is at least a threat to the interference of the executive authority in the field of judicial authority. It should be recalled that pursuant to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution of the Government of the Republic is based on the division and balance of the legislative, executive and judicial powers. Of course, I will no longer refer to the words made by the Member acting on behalf of the PiS Club, and there will probably be an accusation here that these are words for growth, but this is the way to understand the division: as something unfettered within the autonomy of these three pillars on which, according to the Constitution, power should be based with us. Today, unfortunately, this balance is increasingly disturbed by - someone will say - the uncontrollable desire for power presented by the governing camp, but unfortunately you give reasons for such a statement. The proposed rules shall not lay down any procedural guarantees ensuring a balance with the performance of the executive authority. Art. 21a § 3 of the draft provides that the President of the Court shall carry out labour law activities in respect of the Director of the Court, with the exception of those reserved for the Minister of Justice. The Act does not specify at all what activities are reserved for the Minister of Justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which creates the risk of systematically extending the competence of that authority. According to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, this project contains too many shortcomings, too many far-reaching shortcomings from the point of view of the system, which are at odds with this balance between the three pillars of power, which is why we will also request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u344	Thank you. Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, print No 1181. During the process of the bill amending the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws, print No.851, I pointed out from this speaker that as the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, as well as the legal environment with which we as Members are in contact every day, we are increasingly looking forward to major systemic changes that will allow a comprehensive reform of justice for the benefit of citizens and the activity of justice in Poland. Unfortunately, instead of one comprehensive amendment, we are once again receiving a project that affects the general court system fragmentedly. In my view, such a way of introducing systemic changes through numerous amendments may affect the emergence of shortcomings or legal gaps in the content of the Act. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to make further plans to amend the functioning of the judiciary mentioned by the Minister at the meeting with the Prime Minister last Friday by submitting one comprehensive bill. As can be read in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal submitted, its purpose is to clearly separate the functions of judicial administration within the competence of the President of the Court of Justice in the performance of judicial tasks from those of the Director of the Court. The fundamental change in this respect is a new definition of the status of directors of the courts, whose authority will be the Minister of Justice. This leads to the fact that the head of the court will no longer be one of the judicial authorities in regional, district and appeal courts. At the same time, the President of the Court, in accordance with the following Article. 21a (3), shall carry out labour law activities in respect of the Director of the Court, except those reserved for the Minister of Justice. I believe that at this point it would be useful to include in the Act a catalogue of activities reserved for the Minister of Justice, which he would carry out in relation to the directors of the courts. Surely a precisely formulated provision of the law setting out such a catalogue of activities reserved for the Minister would reassure those who are seeking an attempt on the independence of the courts in the proposed change, and would make it clear that the aim of the project is only to supervise the minister's administrative activities of the courts. The draft also envisages that the competition procedure laid down in the provisions of the Article will not be applied to the appointment of the directors of the courts. Article 32a (2) (13) of the amended law. The applicant argues that the procedure was long-term and did not always ensure that the post of Director or Deputy Director of the Court was quickly and effectively filled, making the possibility of acting as Minister of Justice subject to the activities of the competition committee set up by the President of the Court. If that is possible, I would also ask the Minister to provide the High House with data on the duration of such competitions, confirming the argument given in the bill's explanatory memorandum. All in order to reassure adversaries who are looking for, say, an attempt on the independence of the court, for independence also in terms of administrative activities as regards the position of director or deputy director of the court. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle support the draft law submitted and ask for further proceding of the draft submitted in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u346	Thank you, sir. That's the list, right? Three ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mrs Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing it's a minute and a half, 'cause I've got a lot of questions. Firstly, for what reasons will the Director cease to be a body, a judicial authority, given that a number of issues arise in such an institution in the case of a director will be required? The President will represent the court. And the principal? The principal doesn't. That's one thing. Secondly, please tell me why in the case of the director's role any assumptions, any statutory requirements that this director should fulfil in order to become a director have been waived. How is it possible that the appeal does not require any justification? How is it possible for the Constitutional Tribunal to state in this respect that the general assembly of the Judges of Appeal and the President of the Court of First Instance should have a significant impact on the appeal of the Director of the Court, and in the case of the President and the institutions, in the form of a meeting, do you completely deprive them of this? How is that possible? How can you claim that the President will now look after the caselaw? I don't think you've ever been to court. After all, there are complaints, a day for complaints, the whole administrative issue. How do you even imagine that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you create court institutions in isolation from what court officials say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u348	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to say to the Minister: yes, Minister, according to what you said, the judicial system is working badly in Poland and needs to be repaired. I understand that this bill is just a step towards making this repair actually happen. I just have one question. I would like to ask whether, in fact, as Mr Kropiwnicki said, the Ministry wants to lower the rank of director of the court and whether this will impede the functioning of this court, as the opposition says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u350	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u351	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Before I ask a question, a word of comment to Mrs Michalek's statement that this bill is a small step. As you can see, she is also not without doubt about the whole idea. Because it's so little, Minister, it's that today we're taking a step forward in your opinion, and we're about to take two steps back, and then one step aside, and that's not going to do anything about the whole idea of improving the work of the courts. I also fully agree with the previous speaker on the need for comprehensiveness and, however, a package of changes. The question, Minister, is why does this project depart from the competition procedure? However, this is a certain standard adopted for managing persons in institutions, that they do not come together as a result of nominations, but at least there is a public verification of the competences of these persons. I'd like to know why it was abandoned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u352	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We will all agree that the judiciary needs intense changes that will improve its work, productivity, the working opportunities of judges, administrative staff, and above all to ensure justice for our citizens, because this system serves this purpose. On the other hand, I would like to know how, when proposing such arrangements in the theory of administration of administrative courts, you are able to ensure that this will not be a tool - and I do not mean whether one or another team - to put pressure on a particular court, on a particular judge. By means of administrative action it is very easy to press a particular judge: he will not have a computer working, the chair will be broken... I'm exaggerating, but I'm talking about this kind of thing, the concept - and that's the question - that Mr. Profit has just presented, for example. to make a catalogue of cases for which the Minister could actually intervene, a closed catalogue, well formulated, which would prevent the institution from being used for non-administrative purposes, i.e. for judicial purposes. It is also about any other solution that would be able to ensure that direct control of the administration of the courts is not directly controlled by our judiciary, our judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u354	Thank you, sir. We've exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. Please take the floor of Minister Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u355	Dear Marshal, High Seym! To answer the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will begin by addressing the question of Marshal Dolnyak. After these changes, who will represent the court? Here's the answer. Nothing will change: as far as its jurisdiction is concerned, the President of the Court, and as far as its jurisdiction is concerned, the Director of the Court. Question two, could such a doubt even be a rhetorical question: Why is there no criteria for the appointment of this director of the court? They are, the criteria remain exactly the same as they have been so far, i.e. the 2 years of experience in the management position, the corresponding higher education, just as we have in the regulations that are already in force today. Mrs Michalek asked if this amendment would not lower the rank of the court's director. The answer is no, it won't. I mean, the head of the court is still the head of the unit, just like it's been so far. Mr Paszik's question was why the competitions were abandoned. Here the answer is practical. It was different, but the competitions lasted on average for more than six months, and it was often the case that if the competition was not settled, then the appointment procedure was prolonged for months and it was unbearable. Even some judges came and said that it was no longer acceptable level, that something had to be done about it. That is why we are proposing this to the High House, but we are ready to discuss this issue, including within the committee, whether there will be any practical solution that will satisfy all parties. These questions have been raised all the time, but it has also been very frequent in club speeches, namely: Why do you keep doing this in pieces, and not present in one bill the whole reform of the justice system, which Poles are waiting for? The answer must be simple: it cannot be done in one bill, the justice system needs to be repaired on many small sections. You know that more than 50 bill projects have already been created in our resort - another group is being prepared - which step by step cleans up the justice system. You can reach perhaps the best measure: for example, trust in the prosecutor's office, which has been reformed in a systemic way, has been growing for the first time in many years. That is why I am convinced that fundamental reforms are needed here, but these reforms must unfortunately be introduced in stages, it cannot be done once, at once. I know I could tell you a lot about the reform of the judiciary that you recently presented to Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, but the marshal could call me in order and tell you that this is not about, and he would probably be right. Therefore, if this is of interest to you, I am also prepared to reply in writing or in addition to the Parliamentary Speaker. Once again, I want to emphasise one thing. Namely, it is not as one of the previous speakers mentioned here, asking that the Presidents of the courts will not have time to deal with the case law. That's not true. I can say that precisely from my experience, which I believe you do not have, and as the person responsible for this budgetary section on justice. The judges often come on such financial matters. Now, according to the law, there you go, they will be able to concentrate on what is most important, i.e. on case-law. If we want to find an answer to the biggest gangrene of the judiciary, i.e. Chronicity... Often the state itself, judges, representatives of the judiciary, you mention that the problem for you is that the judges have too many tasks, different functions, etc. Well, here's a prescription: please, now the President of the Court will not have to focus on education, for example. as regards the supervision of the financial management of the court, because there is no competence in this respect. The President of the Court should focus primarily on case law, i.e. supervision of the quality of the court's work in this part, let's call it Judaic, and the financial economy should stay with the director of the court, as it is today. I remembered Mr Długo's question. Namely, the question was whether we could not clarify the tasks and competences of the court's director so that it was clear at what moments the minister of justice might interfere and at which times he might not. Here's the answer: U.S.P. does not change in this respect, Article. 131a, in which these competences are precisely exchanged, does not change and neither do we intend to change them. The competences will be exactly the same, and you, as parliamentarians, should account for the director of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u356	Thank you very much, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Barbara Dolniak. Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, indeed, Minister, I have not yet worked in the Ministry of Justice, but I have worked in court for this, and I know that the head of the court has worked - it is not your idea - but this director was chosen in the competition, he had to meet certain conditions, and that is not in the bill at the moment, and he could not be called off just by decision of the Minister of Justice. One more thing is very important. I don't think you really understood or didn't want to answer my question about the matter of the authority, because at the moment the head of the court is not only going to be able to be appointed at the discretion of the minister and dismissed at the discretion of the minister without any external rules, i.e. without a competition, it is not going to be the authority of this court, which is not going to represent the court in certain financial matters. It's gonna have to fall on the court president anyway. He's not gonna have any influence on the decisions, because it's gonna belong to the head of the court, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And consequently, the minister, but the court will have to represent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u358	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u359	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! Once again, you're accusing the head of the court that we won't have to... means that we won't have the criteria to elect the head of the court, and I'd like to point out to your marshal that if you're already making these allegations, it would be good to read the bill. [[I read it.]] According to this bill... There you go, Art. 32a sets out very precisely those criteria according to which the director of the court may be elected. End of story. And these are the criteria that have been used so far? Not Patrick Jak, but the presidents of the courts. As far as representation is concerned, I would like to say once again to your marshal that nothing will change here either, everyone in his or her jurisdiction - and the head of the court in his or her jurisdiction, and the President of the court in his or her jurisdiction - will represent the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u360	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period (prints 1167 and 1203). I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current law of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression, OJ No. U. z 2016 poz. 1255, does not regulate cases concerning the uniforming of veterans. The purpose of the amendments proposed in the government bill, print No 1167, is to emphasize that the Polish State recognises and honors members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, among others. soldiers cursed, insurgents of Warsaw, soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, as soldiers of the Polish Army by granting the right to receive and wear uniforms along with signs of military degrees. The granted law will be an expression of appreciation for their steadfast military attitude and merit in the fight for independence of the Republic of Poland. The proposed amendment of the law will allow the Minister of National Defence to determine the uniform pattern of the members of the Veterans Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. The provisions implementing the Act will also regulate the circumstances and manner of wearing uniforms and elements thereof. It is proposed to use the definition of uniform instead of uniform because of the need to distinguish such clothes from those used by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland uniforms. In addition, it is proposed to introduce provisions specifying the person competent to issue the uniform to which the application is to be made and the elements of the application and the types of documents required to accompany the application, including. a copy of the supporting document of the military degree held. The project also proposes to extend the catalogue of entities informed by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed of the fact that the person concerned is deprived of his/her veteran rights to the authority competent to issue the uniform of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland in order to ensure that the unauthorized person does not receive the uniform. It should also be stated that the fact that the veteran rights are denied will be clear with the refusal of the right to wear uniforms as a result of the wording of the proposed Article. 20, according to which the right to wear uniform has a member of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. The costs associated with the implementation of uniforms will be financed from the budget of the State, part of which the Minister for National Defence is responsible. The estimated unit cost of making uniforms is about PLN 3800. Currently 8615 people are members of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. Based on consultation with the Kompatan environments, the number of people who are likely to apply for uniforms should be estimated at around 3,000. persons. The draft provides that the Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The National Defence Commission authorised the Legal Office of the Polish Sejm to introduce editorial amendments to the draft. Following the first reading, the National Defence Committee unanimously adopted this draft law. The National Defence Committee asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law contained in print no. 1203. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u362	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Andrzej Smirnow, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland established a law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period, which was adopted in January 1991. The Veterans' Corps was formed by soldiers fighting on various fronts of the Second World War, as well as later during the post-war period. These soldiers fought in various armed formations, and so also in different uniforms, but their goal has always been to fight for independence. This law extends the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. Government bill, because it is a government project, grants veterans fights, members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, including others. Veterans such as Warsaw insurgents, soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, soldiers cursed, the right to receive and wear uniform uniform uniform uniforms, the design of which and the circumstances and manner of wearing are specified in detail by the order of the Minister of National Defence. The intention of the bill under consideration is to honor the heroes of the struggle for independence of our homeland, following the actions taken by the independent Republic in 1919 against the last surviving January insurgents. Granting the right to receive and wear special uniforms is not only an expression of appreciation for their integrity and merit in the fight for independence, but also, and perhaps above all, a symbolic emphasis, that regardless of what fronts they fought on, they are all soldiers of the Polish Army. The veteran corps now has more than 8,000. persons. As the rapporteur said, according to the Ministry's estimate, about 3,000 will be asked to grant the uniform. Veterans. For this reason, this law should enter into force as soon as possible, because these heroes are leaving very quickly. Of course, my club, the Law and Justice Club, will vote in favour of this bill. I also ask colleagues from other clubs and colleagues to support this bill, because it is this law that veterans expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Civic Platform respects the expectations of the veterans and we will vote in favour of this law. On the other hand, it is strange because, Minister, like every bill, this law also has its host. The host of this law is not the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is the host of this law. You decided not to notice it, and it's a real shame, because if you noticed that the law was hosted by a Ministry other than the Ministry of National Defence, then you would know that the Veterans' Office is not a social, non-governmental organisation, because that's how you treated the Veterans' Office as a social partner, but you would have to learn from the Minister of Family then that it's a central office, supervised by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I wanted to ask you, why such nonchalance, whether these are new government customs, to steal laws without informing the competent minister, and why you do not respect your minister of family, work and social policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the Act amending the law on combatants and some of the victims of repression, presented in print no 1167. The introduction of uniform uniform for the Veterans Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland is the right idea and refers to the beautiful tradition of the interwar period when special uniforms were introduced for the surviving veterans of the January Uprising. Minor errors of records or derogations from the uniform rules referred to by the applicant in the annexes to the project shall not call into question the substance of the proposal. However, it is worth to correct the clearly incorrect term in the case of a cloak, which is tapped into a talated one. Note that according to the regulations the pattern 36 coat for pedestrian formations was supposed to end not 35 cm but 45 cm above the ground. Another issue is the introduction for the entire body of infantry veterans: navy pad with light yellow flap on the collar of the jacket and a navy-yellow strap on the collar of the coat, where veterans are members of the body of veterans from different formations, not only infantry. It is worth noting here that in the case of the corps of veterans and invalids of the army of the Polish Kingdom and the establishment of the November bump and bumps of blue jackets were crimson. Separate colors, navy blue with yellow protrusions, had the so-called. The corps of veterans active, but in today's sense it was rather a reserve of the first-line army. Similarly, in the interwar period in the case of uniforms distinguishing veterans of the January Uprising, the navy blue color of uniforms was used in bumps and crimson hoods. Wouldn't it be worth referring to these traditions to the corpses of the Polish Army veterans and accepting light grenade sticks with crimson slippers? The idea of separate uniforming the corps of veterans in Polish military traditions would more clearly be embedded. The introduction of a separate uniform - maybe it would be better to call it according to the old tradition a distinctive uniform or a distinctive outfit - for the veterans' corps it will allow uniforms to be uniformed at national and military ceremonies and eliminate the effect of a certain ptrocosis resulting from the use of various uniforms by veterans. This will undoubtedly raise external signs of veterans' dignity, veterans' status, and add due seriousness to these deserved people. The Kukiz Club15, despite some reservations, is in favour of adopting the contested law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although this is not a draft law in my field, I have been asked to speak and I must say that at the end of the day, Modern is in favour of this regulation. But I'm just gonna say this briefly, what I have written down. As you can see, we are not such a total opposition, we support... [[Great.]] ...also good projects. If they're good, Modern also says she'll vote for the project. This law aims to honor veterans fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland. The novel gives the soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West the right to receive and wear uniforms along with signs of military degrees. These solutions are similar to those used in the Second Republic of Poland. Therefore, modern, as I said at the beginning, to honor these soldiers to honor them, will support this regulation. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] That's it. Enough to say everything in a minute. It's a good project to support Modern. [[Beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u370	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Veterans will have the right to receive and wear uniforms along with signs of military degrees. In this way, the State will honor the members of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, i.e. e.g. soldiers cursed, insurgents of Warsaw, soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West. A member of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland will have the right to receive uniform free of charge and to wear it in certain situations with signs of military degrees. The uniform shall be issued at the request of a member of the corps, submitted to the military chief for additions. The uniform is to be issued by the commander of the supply budgetary unit in the uniform department to which the commandant will send the request. The Head of the budgetary unit shall immediately notify the applicant, the body member, of the place and date of issue of the uniform. The Minister for National Defence will specify in the regulation the elements of uniforms, the circumstances and manner of wearing them together with signs of military degrees and their pattern. It will take into account the need to ensure that uniforms are practical and aesthetic, and will take into account the gender of the body member and the need to distinguish this outfit from the uniform used by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The catalogue of entities informed by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed of the disenfranchise of the person concerned has also been extended to the authority competent to issue uniforms. As a result, the Head of the Office for Veterans and Repressed Persons will immediately notify the competent pension or pension authority, the competent retirement or family allowance paying body and the body responsible for issuing the uniform. This is a good bill regulating and ordering issues concerning the dress of our well-deserved Poles. Sometimes we see them at celebrations, they participate in many celebrations, they live, they work. And it's a good thing that this bill comes into play at the Sejm. The Polish People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the proposed amendment to the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and the post-war period of 24 January 1991, the applicant's intention is to restore the form of special honoring of heroes by modeling the actions taken by the independent Republic in 1919 against the last surviving January insurgents. The aim of the proposed regulation is to highlight the special recognition and recognition by the state of Polish members of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, among others. soldiers cursed, insurgents of Warsaw, soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, as soldiers of the Polish Army by granting them the right to receive and wear uniforms along with signs of military degrees. The granted law will be an expression of appreciation for their steadfast military attitude and merit in the fight for independence of the Republic of Poland and will highlight the continuity of the traditions of soldiers of generations. At the same time, it is proposed to use the definition of uniform instead of uniforming because it is necessary to distinguish such clothing from uniforms used by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, because according to the law the uniform is a garment or parts thereof which are used to designate belonging to a particular organizational unit or performing certain functions or services. The above regulation leads to the conclusion that the uniform is a costume which denotes the membership of specific persons to the currently functioning and carrying out specific tasks of organizational units and services, and therefore there is a need to distinguish this type of clothing from clothes intended to commemorate and honor the activities of persons belonging to the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. The proposed amendment of the law will allow the Minister of National Defence to determine the uniform pattern of the members of the Veterans Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. The provisions implementing the Act will also specify the circumstances and manner in which uniforms and elements of uniforms are to be worn. In addition, it is proposed to introduce provisions setting out the body competent to issue uniforms. In this respect, it is proposed to provide information on the military degree in order to place it on the uniform issued. High Izbo! Very often I participate in celebrations commemorating the struggle for independence of our homeland and I am happy to look at humble veterans with white-red bands on the sleeves of civilian clothes, proudly wearing symbols and signs of their groups and formations in which they fought for free Poland. These silent heroes are a model for us and for younger generations. Granting veterans the right to wear uniforms will be a very important honor for them, and on our part it will be a tribute expressing respect for their merits for their independent homeland. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u374	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Respect for combatants and veterans is not only due during the festivities, on holidays, when they wear this uniform, they are due on a daily basis when they have health problems when they do not have enough to survive. This debate on the uniform should be the culmination of a whole range of activities - helping these people with access to health care and opportunities for decent living. This review of these two issues should be preceded by this debate today. Not just on the day of the ceremony, think, ladies and gentlemen. About the combatants. This thought must accompany us every day. And now with regard to this project, as Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska said, according to the law on combatants, the Minister of Labour is responsible. And this is not a trivial matter because the law designates the competent authority in this case. We therefore ask the Minister to tell us why the Minister of National Defence has taken over this issue contrary to the Law on Departments. After all, this will be done by the head of the Veterans' Office, and this is the central office, which falls under the Minister of Labour. But there's something about this project that's embarrassing, and it's sad. Namely, you don't know how many veterans there are. in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many members are there? The Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, how many people are eligible. Head of the Veterans' Office in the middle of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u376	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u377	...interministerial agreements indicated that there were 40,000 of them and 8600 of them...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u378	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u379	I'm almost done, Marshal, two sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u380	No, sir. You've been out of time for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u381	But right now, I'm gonna finish thinking. It's embarrassing that the state...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u382	You've been in the Seym for a long time, you know the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u383	...you don't know how many veterans there are. in Poland, and you want...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u384	Please, Mrs Bożena Kaminska has the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u385	...to honor them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u386	... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is indeed a bow with respect towards veterans - this regulation about uniforming our veterans and veterans. On the other hand, we all realize that veterans are elderly and ill. And as we interact with them, we talk to them, we know very well that, apart from such a provision concerning uniforms, they expect support from the government in the form of social, health-promoting assistance. Because they deserve it, too. And I have a question: Minister, will there be other programs to support veterans and veterans, not just in the form of a one-off purchase of uniforms, which you are proposing here, which is very important? These are the living, the elderly, with all kinds of problems, sick. They also need a global program that will support them in their daily lives, for all the merits and struggle they have undertaken in defence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u389	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Respect for the veterans is undoubtedly due in every field and in every situation where we have great pleasure and honor to meet with them. Undoubtedly, honoring them with proper uniforms also has a large, huge dimension. Unfortunately, most of them - I stress: most of them - do not live in decent conditions. If they had enough pensions, they'd buy their own uniforms. On the other hand, when returning to the statements made by my previous speakers, it must be said that, indeed, the state in this bill cannot properly estimate the level of costs, which is also extremely important from a legislative point of view, because these are consequences for the budget, not fully reflected in the draft, since this number is not clearly stated. I would also like to add something here that is extremely important from the point of view of dividing veterans as part of their assistance. There are non-governmental organisations involved in helping veterans, and the state does not conclude contracts transparently and transparently with all those who provide this assistance. I would like to ask, Minister, why this is the case, that not all organizations which have the statutory duties to assist veterans receive assistance from veterans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from your support that you do not conclude agreements with these organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u390	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Chłopskie battalions are a underground military organization of the Polish folk movement operating during World War II in the territory of the General Government and in Wielkopolska in order to defend the Polish village against German terror and economic exploitation. After the National Army it was the largest military formation, because I want to remind you that the Boys' Battalions are 170 thousand. Soldiers, guerrillas, and the National Army is about 390 thousand. Poles. And here's my question: will this bill also apply to the Battalion's soldiers? Second question. Minister, tell me on what basis you calculated about 3,000. Poles of combatants will need this uniform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u392	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Fałkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start by thanking you. I would like to thank all of you, the entire High House, for the above-party agreement, for supporting this law. What I'm trying to say is that I really appreciate it. I value it on behalf of the office that I represent, and I value it as a human being. I've noted that, thank you very much again for that. As regards the issues raised by the successive Members who have appeared here, I would like to say that the initiative to prepare this law has come from the Minister for National Defence for a very simple reason. They were soldiers, and the value of the present Polish Army also depends on morale and what it carries in itself, in the heart and in the soul, and in the mind, when it comes to memory, when it comes to cultural and national identity, when it comes to patriotic motivation. Building the image and the past of the army also depends on this, hence the initiative of the Minister of National Defence, in order to clearly, publicly and symbolically honor the combatants - members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. So this is an explanation of motivation. I also wanted to say that from the very beginning, i.e. both at the time of formulation of the idea and later during the preparation of the contents of the Act, we remained in very close working and constant contact with the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The treatment given to us by the Member of the Office for Veterans, the Central Institution, as a social organisation or at all of the unknown status, which she has assigned us, is unlawful and never has happened. I would also like to make it clear that, at the stage of preparing the estimates and justifications of this law and also later acting under this law - adopted, I hope, by the Sejm and the Senate and the President - this cooperation will have to be not only working and efficient, but also in the spirit and atmosphere as compatible and harmonious as possible. This would not have been possible if, at some stage in the preparation of this law, from the idea, to the preparation of the text until it was submitted to the High House, this close, working and good cooperation was not possible. That's who she was, and that's who she is. I also wanted to say that this bill was going through an inter-ministerial process and the entire ministry, not only the Veterans' Office, but the entire Ministry of Family and Social Affairs... [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Socialist, Minister.]] Excuse me? [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Social.]] ...social affairs, yes, it was consulted and of course it spoke, so here there was absolutely no gap and there is no initiative, but the initiative could come out because of the fact that it concerns former soldiers and the creation of a deep military tradition, war, in Poland existing and alive, so this initiative came out of office of the Minister of National Defence. I don't see anything wrong with it, anything reprehensible, or anything that doesn't serve the cause we're currently debating. I also wanted to clarify a misunderstanding about the quantity. Well, the number of veterans is of course variable, and decreasing constantly, but this is the number of veterans. I also want to say that the number of veterans is variable also... [[Number, Minister, let's use the word number.]] ...when it comes to increasing numbers because many people were afraid until recently to admit to their veteran past during World War II or after World War II in the so-called. the second conspiracy, and only now or in the future will it be possible to report and submit its certificates for verification. But we're not talking about putting veterans in that uniform. We are talking about the uniform of members of the Veterans Corps Walk about Independence of the Republic of Poland. This is a formal status and thus the number of those who will probably actually increase, as it will happen, we are able to give in detail and it amounts to every 8615 people. This number was given by the Veterans' Office and this is the number in a formal sense verifiable and verified. And that's what we're talking about. Where did the number of 3,000 come from? The people who are gonna apply for that uniform? She was accepted - and it is a great respect, he can actually change - on the basis of a public consultation. The interest in uniform, which we are talking about now, is different in different formations, and of course this will apply - I answer the next question here - all formations, including Battalions of peasants, people who come from this formation. Since the project and the idea itself from the very beginning was discussed and consulted with the Vietnamese formations, organizations and associations of war veterans, among others. With the World Association of Home Army Soldiers, we can see clearly that in various veteran environments the interest in this uniform and its attitude are different. Some treat it as a distinction, some consider it an unnecessary proposition, because they believe - as a large part of Warsaw insurgents say - that the pattern of clothing they adopted is appropriate and they have already lived with it, and therefore do not provide for an application for the assignment, for the transfer of such a uniform. I would like to stress that, in any case, a request from the person concerned will be needed, and it is therefore difficult to say how this is going to be right now. We have accepted for estimation the number of 3,000, which at the moment seems realistic to us, but it will in no way limit our actions when it comes to the number of uniforms allocated. The money for this purpose is earmarked and secured in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, and from this budget it will be financed. I would also like to say that the requests made by the ladies and gentlemen of your fellow Members, the three more, to deal with the health and health of the veterans and their social situation, are absolutely right, but we cannot do everything in one act and in one move. This case is a matter that goes on, we will not talk about the Polish People's Republic, but about sovereign Poland, for more than 25 years and actually it has not been done enough here, but, so to speak, as far as possible, we do it. In this bill, we neither move nor resolve it. I would like to say at the same time, since such a question has been asked, that those of the combatants who are in health problems - this is the first point, because this group has so far been completely unnoticed by the state system, members of the second conspiracy, underground combatants after 1944, but also war veterans - have the right, if they believe that they are inadequate health care, to report to clinics and military health institutions. Then they will be given priority, if we can use such a word at all, treated, we will take care of it. Examples of such health care, such even medical intervention, have happened in recent months. In any case, if we received such a signal, military health care reacted quickly or even violently. As for NGOs, I would like to make it clear that this is another completely different thing that is not directly related to this law or to this subject that we are discussing. At the same time, I would like to say that this establishment by the Ministry of Defence of National Cooperation with NGOs is subject to a separate procedure - sometimes assessing the quality of their activities in the past or fulfilling the commitments they have already made, sometimes also assessing how they approach the tasks they themselves propose. This is a completely different procedure, which is subject to the actions of the appropriate cells of the Ministry. I have nothing to add here actually at this point except this emphasis once again, that it has nothing to do with this law and the discussed issue. Thank you very much. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Mr Marshal, correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u394	Here you are, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u395	Minister, I do not deny the Ministry of National Defence the right to initiative on such a change, but the Minister of the Family is the host of this law. You really ignored the Minister of the Family because it was the Minister of the Family who sent your project for consultation, and the State treated the Office for Veterans as one of many social partners. In such a formula you sent this bill. You may not remember it, but it's in the papers, I'm telling you the truth. Minister, if you would cooperate with the Minister of the Family - I think this is a very uncomfortable situation for the Minister of the Family - you would avoid these mistakes related to the number of people. If we're talking about $40,000. people who can be entitled, that is more than PLN 120 million, which means that in the pure numbers of absolute differences can reach tens of millions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I very much appeal for respect for the Minister of Labour. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u396	Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, in the correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u397	Thank you very much, Marshal. However, Minister, it is crucial and embarrassing that you do not know that the applicant... that such false data on the number of eligible persons are given in this case in the Sejm. During the interministerial arrangements, the head of the Veterans' Office sent you comments on the project, where he pointed out that every veteran is a member of the Veterans' Corps for Independence of the Republic of Poland, and therefore in Poland every veteran is entitled to this new uniform. There are 40,000 combatants out of those 40,000. I.D.'d 8600. They got their IDs, they're not all entitled. The state of this second value, those veterans who received their IDs, was treated as merely eligible. Wrong. However, it is embarrassing that you appear in the Sejm, that in the Sejm a representative of the largest party eats data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so embarrassingly untrue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u398	Please, Minister Wojciech Fałkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not believe that this law and our proposal, this initiative of the Ministry of National Defence, is the reason to enter into polemics, all the more so with the use of such words sharp and inadequate to the substantive situation. On the other hand, sir, let us not play so much as to juggle with numbers. The number of veterans... [[Oh, God...]] ...and we agree on that, that's about $40,000. There are 8615 people who are verified in terms of identity cards, and that's the number of veterans' offices said, and here we are also in agreement. Anyone who is a combatant and who has submitted to this degree of verification has the right to this uniform. If this number is greater, I assure you that the budget of the Ministry of National Defence will lift these commitments and we will carry it out, while some numbers based on the official presentation by the Veterans' Office we had to accept. And that's a formal issue. That's how many people get that uniform, that's. uniform clothing, this is a matter that will prove to be practical, and we will certainly not eliminate this number in advance or through inappropriate procedures. On the contrary, we took the initiative to honor these people. This is our initiative, we want to implement it, and please don't look for a hole in the whole thing. Don't juggle the numbers. The number of people who will be, to those who make this request, this uniform will be handed over. If it's 10,000. People, it's going to be 10,000. People. If it's another number... [[And we take that as a good coin.]] ...it's gonna be different. We assumed it was 8615 people, because that's the number that officially operates the Veterans' Office. That's the first thing. Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska. It would be good for you to decide whether you want to suggest that we cannot bear this financially and that we cannot cover the costs, or that you want to prove to all of us here that we want to ignore one of the state offices. [[Competitively, competently.]] Neither. We do not underestimate the office with which we work and on which we rely, and I assure you all that we will bear it. The Ministry of National Defence, Minister Darksk knows the budget very well. The Ministry's budget will bear the commitments that will be made in real reality. That's all you can say about it. I appeal for the cessation of barren combat... [[Voice from the room: Discussion.]] ...to the words, since we have agreed, once again, I would stress very much that the bill is needed. I can only say, bitterly, why this bill did not appear two years ago, five years ago, only now. The Ministry of National Defence has now taken such an initiative. We want to do this, we want to honor it, and we want it to be public honor, seen and well-functioning, and that's what we're doing. You have chosen to join us, and I am very pleased about that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u400	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to begin by thanking you for the draft law on combatants and some of the victims of war repression and the post-war period of the Government of Law and Justice, for the project that was expected. Let me remind you that in previous years, when the Civic Platform with PSL was run, a comprehensive, comprehensive bill on the corps of Veterans fighting for independence was presented and it was addressed to the committee. Previously, it was a project of the President of the Republic of Poland. Lech Kaczyński and this project did not see the light of day, never left the committee's work and was actually drowned. These solutions, which you are asking about from the Civic Platform, were not accepted, and he was comprehensively solving it. I hope that in the future, after this declaration by the Minister of National Defence, this will be resolved, because, of course, it should be resolved, apart from uniforms, which is regulated by this law, also social assistance for combatants, health care should be free travel for combatants. It was all in the draft law on the corps of veterans fighting for independence regulated. In the future, we will implement these solutions, because we are very concerned about the veterans, who are of course years old. Every year, we reminded each other about it and asked about it. There were 96 months of previous governments. We would like to thank you very much for the questions to which the Minister for National Defence has largely answered and for the declarations, because all the clubs in the High House supported this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u402	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the act on social assistance (print No 908). I ask Mr Marcin Święcicki to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and amending the act on social assistance on behalf of 73 Members of the Civic Platform and one Member who at that time found himself in the Modern. However, I hope that this bill will be supported by all parliamentary clubs, because the law concerns Warsaw insurgents and helps Warsaw insurgents to finance their stay in social assistance homes. Let us remind you that the Warsaw Uprising was the largest armed urban uprising in occupied Europe. It was an uprising during which the insurgents set an example of their absolute devotion to the matter of the country, devoted their young years, their forces, their private, professional affairs, everything to the interests of the country. Many of them gave their lives. Moreover, after the fall of the uprising, the tragedy of the insurgents did not end, because during the Stalinist period many of them had to hide, were imprisoned, and some had been sentenced to death. The Warsaw Uprising was not only the fight against the German invader, but also the fight for democratic Poland, to keep Poland in continuity with its pre-war regime, to remain under the government in exile, which was in London, and thus the uprising would probably resist Stalin's plans for the vassal of Poland, plans to impose the regime here by Stalin. As we know, the insurgents are highly honored. They were such a moral force for the 'Solidarity', for the democratic opposition, but also for all others who otherwise wanted to sacrifice themselves for their homeland, to do something good for them. Today we raise the young generation on the legend of the Warsaw Uprising, on this attitude of insurgents, among others. through the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising, which we owe to the dead. Lech Kaczyński. The uprising also gained great international significance. I would like to remind you that on the 50th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising in 1994 at the invitation of Lech Wałęsa, German President Roman Herzog, who said on behalf of Germany before the Warsaw Uprising Monument at the time, quote: I ask forgiveness for all that the Germans have arranged here. Meanwhile, the Warsaw insurgents, most of them in the 1990s, are not in the best financial, material, life situation, have no special privileges. As far as welfare homes are concerned, as is the case with this law, the only privilege is that they can get a place in the first place there. At present, the average price of staying in such a social assistance house in Warsaw is PLN 4800. Insurgents, all are normally obliged to cover these costs up to 70% your pension. If 70% pensions are not sufficient to cover these costs, the rest is to be covered by the immediate family. Only on a case-by-case basis can you apply for exemption from these charges in any particular way. In this act we propose that we change this state of affairs so that the Warsaw insurgents have the full cost of staying in social services homes, 50% of which costs would cover the capital city of Warsaw and the other 50% would be covered by the state budget. This would also apply to those insurgents who are already in social assistance homes in Warsaw. There aren't many, twenty-six people. As for the new ones who could be in these social services homes, there was a respect which is presented in the justification of this bill. It's assumed there's about 2,000 more alive. Insurgents. In the Warsaw Insurgents' Union they told me that at the moment even less. Even if it were 15% out of them expressed their willingness to go to social services houses, it would be about 300 insurgents, at those costs which I mentioned here, the cost charged to the state budget would be about PLN 8.9 million. That's what this cost would be for m.st. Warsaw. One can ask why only Warsaw insurgents, only in Warsaw. Therefore, I would like to inform you that with this proposal, Warsaw, which prepared it, declared its willingness and willingness to cover half of these costs. Of course, if this bill could be extended in some form to all combatants, we wouldn't mind. I hope that the government in its position, which is not yet available, will also move this matter somehow. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill will require a regulation to clarify what documents are needed in order to exercise the powers set out here. The law would also cover those insurgents I have already mentioned, who are already in social services homes. I ask the High House to adopt this law as a necessary and necessary form of help and care for veterans, over our heroes, whom we are very fond of, on which we are modeling, which we set as an example for the young generation. This is a somewhat embarrassing situation that their most important, elementary needs of life do not meet with sufficient state aid. I'm bringing it to the House to proceed with this bill and accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u404	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. Excuse me, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the act on social assistance, print No. 908. I would therefore like to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in this matter. The project aims to support those who took an active part in the Warsaw Uprising in 1944 and who now need 24/7 care in social services homes. Under current regulations, veterans and other entitled persons have priority in obtaining environmental social care at their place of residence, as well as in obtaining places in social assistance homes, in particular in veterans' homes. According to Art. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This is the amount of the annual cost of house operation resulting from the maintenance of the residents of the previous year without investment and renovation costs, plus the forecast average annual price index of goods and services divided by the number of seats, i.e. the sum of the actual number of residents of the house in each month of the previous year. Persons paying a fee may be partially or completely exempted if they apply a fee for another family member's stay in another establishment, there are reasonable circumstances, e.g. unemployment or disability, spouses, accomplices, accompaniments and accomplices shall be maintained from one source of income or the person liable to make the payment shall either be pregnant or raise the child alone. The amendment provides for exemption from the social assistance fees for participants in the Warsaw Uprising. The cost of staying at the social assistance home will be covered by 50% by the municipality as part of its own tasks. The remaining amount will come from the State budget as a task entrusted to the municipality in the field of government administration. Public administration authorities will be required to amend the decisions on the fees to stay at the home of the combatants participating in the Warsaw Uprising within 60 days of the entry into force of the Act. Those who participated in the Warsaw Uprising gave evidence of their patriotism, fighting on the streets of Warsaw. The heroes of those events deserve to be remembered and respected. It is reprehensible that the Civic Platform for 8 years, or 96 months, of governments did not address this issue and did not offer support in this form to participants of the Warsaw Uprising. Perhaps it's another project to reassure the applicants' consciences. However, we all agree that the participants of the Warsaw Uprising must have state aid, respect, care and care. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of referring the bill to work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u406	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, of course, supports this project, because many of our Members are applicants for this. I wanted to add a few more words to this speech, namely in the meantime, when this project was already presented, I received other proposals concerning support for Warsaw insurgents, among others. the proposal that it would be advisable to support families who deal with insurgents and veterans, some financial allowance that would allow them to maintain and provide adequate assistance in the place of residence, in the veteran's home, in the family home. This would both have advantages in relation to the person himself and would probably cost less, such a benefit could solve this problem at a much lower cost than covering costs in 24-hour homes, social services homes. As far as the justification for this project is concerned, there is a talk of 2 000. living insurgents and out of respect for the numerical costs to be incurred by state and m.st. Warsaw, assuming that 15% Insurgents will benefit from this form of free social assistance houses, it appears that it would be about 300 people. On the basis of such individual conversations, not those official estimates that we received from the city, but individual talks with insurgents, I would argue that this number would be less, however, that it would not be as many as 300 people. So that probably this cost is going to be lower, but whether it's going to be higher or lower, I think the case deserves to be passed. I also hope that, since there is such an initiative of the M.S. Warsaw coverage 50% These costs will not run out of money for this purpose in the state budget. It is not, as I said, a lot of costs and it is a bit embarrassing that on the one hand we fett the insurgents, we organize with great appreciation all these celebrations of the Warsaw Uprising, we set them as a model, but for them it is really something so sad that they have to ask for some elementary things, and they are people of a very old age. So let's spare them this embarrassing situation and meet the needs they've been reporting for a few years. Finally, this law is also needed, because without this law, m.st. Warsaw or other municipalities cannot accept this as their own task. This must be clearly defined by law as the task of self-government: to provide such assistance and to provide permanent funding for social assistance homes. This task, of course, can also be taken on by the state and should take on this part, but the city could not take on such a task without legal authority. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the draft law providing financial assistance to insurgents who want to benefit from social assistance houses and asks for it to continue in the Sejm committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u408	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a very difficult act. Unfortunately, I must say that the hypocrisy of the intention of the designers sends the nobility of the actions of the Warsaw insurgents. Ladies and gentlemen, the addition of additional assistance in the form of covering part of the cost of staying in the home of the veterans of the Warsaw Uprising is a valid idea. The doubt is that only a small group will benefit from such aid, which unfortunately is produced from a wide range of veterans and gives them certain privileges. Assuming that the aid in the form of compensation by the municipality and the State for the costs of staying in social assistance homes is fully deserved and justified by granting such powers only to the veterans of the Warsaw Uprising, other combatants of this privilege are denied this privilege. In this way, there is a clear inequality of actors within one group of society. In this respect, therefore, it would be appropriate to go further and the solution to cover the costs of staying in social assistance homes should cover all persons meeting the criteria of the law on combatants and repressed persons. For they all fought for free and sovereign Poland. Such privileges also belong to, among others. prisoners of concentration camps or camps, soldiers cursed, unbreakable - this is important, for example, because of the attitude of some loud, but little known messengers, as the case of Toruń shows. [[Applause]] - combatants of the Polish Armed Forces or increasingly numerous veterans defending their homeland from 1939. Today people submitting this proposal to change, introduce subsidies, clearly play with this socially bearable subject. Only recently, representatives of these communities denied in general the need for the Warsaw Uprising and the fight for independence of Poles. First they questioned the whole idea of independence, then the idea of the uprising as an anti-Soviet demonstration, over time only the commanders of the uprising and legal authorities of the Republic of Poland in London, and now honor the few living insurgents at the expense of other combatants, disturbing and diversifying the environment by giving away such a kind of privilege. Nevertheless, given the value of the act which was taken by the Warsaw insurgents, but also the value of the act of others who fought for independence of the Polish state and met the criteria of the law, bearing all this in mind, Kukiz15 believes that we should proceed this law in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u410	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 6 October 2016, the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the Social Assistance Act of 24 January 1991 was addressed to the first reading. The project concerns support for those taking part in the Warsaw Uprising in 1944 who need 24/7 care in social services homes. It exempts veterans who are participants in the uprising from paying for their stay in nursing homes. Designed changes seem to be positive. Certainly as such any Pole would view them as such. It deserves to be commended that a group of Members of the applicants saw the need to make changes in our area of interest. However, I would like to raise some shortcomings in the proposed solution. So let us remind you that art. The 18th Act already states that the combatants, and thus also the veteran participants of the Warsaw Uprising, have priority in obtaining a place in the help home. It is right now to grant them this new privilege, free of charge at home, but to grant this privilege only to the veterans - the participants of the uprising can be treated as an attempt to divide the environment unfairly into those who have only the right to priority in obtaining a place in the house of help, and those who also have the right to stay in such a house free of charge. It is enough to say that the Warsaw Uprising was part of a larger operation with the code name Among them are not among others. participants in the "Ostrzy Gate" action taken in Vilnius 3 weeks before the uprising was to be its Vilnius equivalent. Similarly, the privileged ones will not be cursed soldiers as a result of the adoption of the procedated project. If, for example. still lived the famous Major Jerome Dekutowski, the dam could not count on a free place in the help home because he was not a participant in the Warsaw Uprising. His unit failed to get to the fighting capital at that time. Therefore, I would recommend that applicants prepare the appropriate calculation of the costs necessary to be borne by the State Treasury if all persons with mattress powers and equivalent within the meaning of the Act were entitled to use social assistance homes free of charge. It should also be pointed out that the proposed project does not make full use of the possibility of adapting the Veterans' Act to the civil and military civil service pension rights laws, including the recently adopted so-called law. It's debubbishing. Whether or not we agree with its provisions, it is the task of the Lower House of Parliament to maintain the unity of the law. Hence the content of the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point (4) (a) a and c should be amended. Instead of a general and vague call by the Security Office, the Military Security and Information Service and their superiors, it should refer directly to the security authorities of the totalitarian state referred to in Article. 13b recently adopted legislation on the pension provision of police officers. A similar article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2th Act on Retirement Provision of Professional Soldiers should not be invoked here because of its far-reaching imperfection, which will not be resolved by the project submitted by MON at the present sitting of the Sejm. Similarly, Article 2 is replaced by the following: Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This provision only mentions PPR and PZPR as the authority over the institutions mentioned in the Act, including the prosecutor's office and civil and military courts, whereas in these cases the authority in the period of the PRL from 1952 to 1989 was exercised by the ruling party, but in accordance with the law of that time by the Council of the State which the legislator left out in 1991. Ladies and gentlemen, despite these shortcomings and shortcomings in the project, we intend to support it, but we hope that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our demands will in the future be taken into account during subsequent amendments to the law on combatants, especially the one concerning the inclusion of the privilege envisaged in the project...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u412	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u413	...all combatants with equal rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u414	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u415	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present a position regarding the draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain people who are victims of war repression and post-war period and the amendment of the act on social assistance, print No. 908. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland recognises that the natural and inalienable dignity of man is inviolable, and its respect and protection is the duty of public authorities. Therefore, the proposal for an amendment that we are currently dealing with is very important. It concerns free care for people who once risked their health and life, fighting for free Poland. Today they often need the care of the state and are unable to finance it. It's about people who need 24/7 care. They can provide them with social assistance homes, because the Act of January 1991 states that people such as veterans, but also some of those repressed during the war and post-war period have priority in obtaining a place in 24-hour nursing homes. However, money may be a problem, because in the current state of affairs, staying in such a resort is paid for so-called. the average monthly maintenance basket of the resident. This fee is calculated according to a number of factors and forecasts established by the rules. The proposed amendment goes against the rules that apply today. It assumes exemption from those fees of persons who participated in the Warsaw Uprising. The entry into force of this project will significantly improve the situation of some of the most deprived, and it must be added that the number of these people is not large. The applicants estimate that a few hundred people may benefit from the proposed aid, so it will not result in a burden that the budget could not cope with, especially since the proposal speaks about funding halfway from the state budget and half from local government resources. The Act also proposes to introduce clear rules for the verification of persons who will seek this assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, we would like to point out that the direction adopted by the Act is a good direction. It is worth considering whether help is also directed to others who fought during the wars for our country's freedom. The Polish People's Party Club will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u416	Thank you very much. The voice has... Excuse me, Mr Ireneusz Gaina has delivered his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently there are about 2,000. participants in the uprising, of which 1 000 in Warsaw. The number of natural causes per month is lower. The cost of implementing this Act will be small. I wanted to ask you how many people a year can come forward for this kind of help. I would like to ask the Members of the applicant why this law applies only to a group of combatants participating in the Warsaw Uprising and whether the government's position on the possibility of breaking this provision of the constitutional principle of equality before the law is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u418	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Are you aware of the mess of competence you have in the government? The point earlier was a point which also concerned the amendment of the law on combatants. Since Minister Macierewicz was the inventor there, it could be seen that Minister Macierewicz decided not to notice that it was the Ministry of the Family and the Office for Veterans who hosted this law. I am very pleased that you are with us now and that you can work on a change of law that you will later have to implement. On the other hand, I wanted to take this opportunity to say that I have a voice and ask you if you know if we are to understand that Minister Macierewicz's veterans who are Warsaw insurgents are not interested, and he is only interested in those veterans for whom he had an idea - I am referring here to the issue of uniforming for veterans, oppressed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u420	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u421	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As the applicant pointed out at the outset, there is currently no government position in this area, and therefore I will not refer to it in substance. But at the same time I would like to say that the government is preparing a draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period and amending the act on social assistance to a wider extent, so that the bill includes all members of the Veterans' Corps of the Walk on Independence of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, referring to an earlier statement, I would like to point out that this is a parliamentary project, the earlier one was a government project. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: MON-owski.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u422	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the comments that were made during the discussion concerned why this applies only to Warsaw insurgents. Well, I'd like to explain it again. Only Warsaw insurgents are in this project, because Warsaw's capital city took this initiative and presented, declared its willingness to cover 50% of the costs of helping Warsaw insurgents in social assistance homes. Absolutely, we are in favour of this and we have no objection to extending this principle of financial assistance to all combatants, all veterans fighting for independence. From what the Minister has said here, I believe the government is working on such a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial issue will always be a problem. I do not know what the government will declare here the possibilities in which direction it will go, but I would like to say one thing, that I hope that the government will not run out of resources to make it out of its 50% pot as well. whether to contribute an appropriate amount to the financing of the insurgents' stay in social assistance homes and the local government will add the second part of the amount. It's one thing to make sure it isn't. Dropped only on the government because I've heard about these versions circulating in the government. My second point is that in this project, which I have presented to you today, we are talking about a full, 100% coverage of the costs of insurgents staying in social services. I do not know what the government is planning, I have not seen this bill, but if in this government project it will be extended to all veterans - otherwise I consider it desirable and reasonable for the government to take such an initiative - it can be considered - the financial costs are always a limitation - on the second part of these fees. Namely for Warsaw insurgents such a thing is especially sad and painful, that even if they cover 70% This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of thousands. zł, that's the rest of the 4,8,000. The zloty must cover their family, collect, make up for it. This is extremely sad for them. So perhaps, if it extends to all combatants, perhaps such a principle - I present it as an option for discussion in committee, maybe the government will also consider it - that we remain on this general principle that all combatants cover costs of 70% We don't throw the rest on a family of veterans anymore, we don't make them feel bad, we don't put these veterans in a difficult situation where they have to burden their family, they'll take the rest of the country and local governments in half. Such a solution would, of course, be cheaper and would allow a very broad group, namely simply all veterans who would like to benefit from this form of social assistance, form of state aid. I take this under consideration, Minister, and I take this into consideration to the committee members who will be discussing this. Thank you all for your support, because all the clubs supported this project and are in favour of continuing to work on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u424	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Participants of the Warsaw Uprising gave evidence of heroism and patriotism, fighting and dying on the streets of Warsaw. The draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the act on social assistance aims to support those who participated actively in the Warsaw Uprising in 1944. The proposed amendment is intended to provide support to those taking part in the Warsaw Uprising who need 24/7 care in social services homes. About 300 insurgents living in Poland can benefit from the rights and the annual cost for the state budget is estimated at approx. PLN 9 million. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, A lot has been said about the heroism of the insurgent Warsaw, the heroism of the insurgents is a model for the young generation. I am convinced that this law should be adopted by acclamation. The heroes of those days deserve the memory, respect and care of the Polish state for the rest of their days.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u426	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the Act on Social Assistance, contained in print No. 908, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make the first parliamentary statement in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in 2017. High Seym, in February 2016, I had the honour to inform the High House about the fact in Poland of a little known, although extremely important - Poland arrived a new 100 thousandth city on the Baltic Sea. After joining two villages, Jamna and Łabush, Koszalin based its northern border on the coastal lake Jamno connected with the Baltic Sea and thus became a maritime city. Today I would like to convey another joyful message to the High House: Poland has arrived a new city on the Baltic Sea, but it did not need to change borders, because it has been in the same place for at least 800 years - between the Baltic Sea and Lake Jamno. The town of Mielno under the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 16 July 2016 has been a city since 1 January 2017. I would like to offer my sincere congratulations to the people of the town of Mielna, because every Kosalinian is to some extent a melanian, and every melanian is a kosalinian. Our fates are inseparable. I am also pleased to inform the High House that at the head of such a highly distinguished commune, now the city, stands an extremely resourceful woman, your uncle, now the mayor, Olga Roszak-Pezala. Dear Mayor, Hence, from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the Council and all the inhabitants of Poland on your warmest congratulations. Your energy, economy, concern for a small homeland and a sense of local identity have been appreciated by the government of the Republic and rewarded. We share with you the joy, hope for a good future and mutually beneficial cooperation for both cities. We also see your success as the success of Koszalin, because we are faced with a beautiful and encouraging vision of the future, which summarizes one word: two cities. Already today, Mielno and Koszalin are organically linked mainly in the field of urban infrastructure and logistics. They complement each other by providing comprehensive service to tourists and holiday makers. Together they also take care of promotion, although if you take into account the famous saying in Poland: Koszalin near Mielna, you have to admit that Mielno does it more effectively. The creation of duopol cities opens up a huge field of cooperation, above all the possibility of obtaining financial support, including EU funds, from the government and the voivodship authorities for new investments, among which the expansion of the road from Mielna to Koszalin seems to be the most important. Further decisions of the government deciding on the extension of the section of the S11 high-speed road, i.e. the route connecting the central coast from the centre of Poland, will result in the creation here of a great road node of two crossing roads S6 and S11, the largest one between Szczecin and Gdansk. All of this creates the conditions for creating a strong, extensive resort of recreation and recreation, one of the largest in Poland and on the Baltic. High Izbo! Together, there's more. I am preaching this slogan on the day on which two wonderfully located Baltic cities of Poland, Mielno and Koszalin celebrate the obtaining of urban rights by Mielno. The combination of our potentials, strengths while maintaining the autonomy of each city will enable us to develop faster, will allow us to realize a bolder vision of the future and thus contribute to the development of the brightest Republic and to strengthen its historical relationship with the sea. As a Member from Koszalin and the Central Pomeranian region, I ask the High House to accept and accept this vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u429	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When I was a kid, I loved the circus. I come from a family that can't afford it. was to finance too many entertainments for children, and going to the circus was a great experience because it happened once every many years. To this day I remember such a trip organized by a firefighter car for the children of volunteer firefighters. Children's dreams sometimes come true, even after years. And who'd have thought that the circus itself would come to us, and yet, if you'd had a grudge, you'd even be able to touch the representatives of the circus crew. I always wondered why the circus had to be round. Probably the circuses feel that way, maybe it's the round shape of the room itself that induces circus abilities, but that's the question from the category, which was the first: egg or chicken. How I liked clowns! As soon as the show started, I was looking for them. The clown was unique, unsigned of course, but everyone knew it was a clown even before he spoke. And these monkeys! How wise they were. Like people. They could even take a book into their hands and pretend to be able to read. And even their glasses were worn. And the funniest thing I remember was the ones that had such distinctive red attributes. Yeah, these monkeys are always gonna remind me of the revolution. And circus parrots, what beautiful birds! How colorful, how intelligent. They could speak humanly, even try to sing. What a song that was! If they were being recorded, they'd probably be on the charts. Although I personally don't believe these parrots. Someone put a parrot on my shoulder once, and I was always afraid I'd be pecked. Well, those illusionists! How did they get those rabbits out of the pot to pull out or make money out of nothing? Yeah, but the best were the ones who, apparently, were called mentalists. Dark outfit, blameless outfit, threatening dead man's face and causing the mood of horror. The world's about to collapse or at least a circus tent. Oh, it's creepy. And those circus horses and those riders on them! It seemed that against the laws of physics to fall off a horse in their case unlike, and today the horses with beautiful ornamented mane were made by rubies. And he shall fall upon the ruby, and every moment he shall not smite his head, upon his neck in the light of the miners, it shall be a shame upon the whole world. And finally, lions ruling over the animal world, dignified, dangerous, majestic, making it seem that one opening of their mouths is able to eat their giant teeth of a trainer in no time. Today, the real circus lions are gone. Those who are, only pretend to control anything, the mane can't see, rather yawn, rather than roar, and when they open their mouths, teeth like a pony, without visible fangs, cut off, or even artificial. They wouldn't just eat bones, they'd probably even eat bread crusts. But despite the weakness of this present circus, all the shortcomings can be covered up, made up and released into the world a message that it is at least the rank of the Circus of the Crown. And for me, that's the most important thing. It doesn't matter how it really is, but it does matter how the media shows it. This way I can boast: I was, I saw, the best circus we can afford right now. There's only one thing I can't understand. The audience bought tickets, sat down in chairs, and monkeys, parrots, lions, and everything else ran away. This is a circus! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u430	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I vow to serve the Polish State, respect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, conscientiously and impartially perform the duties of civil servant in accordance with the best knowledge and will. It is a part of the vow made during the appointment of officials, graduates of the National School of Public Administration - a school which was the first institution of this type in post-communist countries in September 1991 to receive its students. The mission of the National School of Public Administration is to educate and prepare civil servants and senior officials for the administration of the Republic of Poland for the public service. Based on cooperation with public administration, universities, scientific institutions, national and foreign organisations, the university provides professional education, carries out projects aimed at public administration and, in particular, civil service. But school isn't just education, it's also education. Its essential element is the personality pattern of the school's patron, who gives the institution identity, and the unit - timeless values. The name of the patron is an honor for the university, but also an obligation, therefore with undiscovered satisfaction and joy I accepted the result of the vote in the Sejm of 14 September and in the Senate of 6 October 2016, giving the National School of Public Administration the name of the President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński, whose consistency of human attitudes with the social role of the political role - this common inseparable denominator: honesty, justice, concern for the common good - constitute an undisputed model in the training of competent officials devoted to their homeland. January 12th this year The National School of Public Administration held a beautiful ceremony of giving a name and giving a new banner. During the ceremony we heard significant words: the banner gathers towards the community. The personality characteristics of the President, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, such as the stability of the human posture, concern for another man, the beautiful attitude of marriage bond, the example of a caring husband, father and grandfather, in the context of a conversation about a personal pattern are undoubtedly desirable. If we add to this competence and knowledge, a passion for learning combined with extraordinary diligence, the characteristics of this patron create the best ground for training at the National School of Public Administration competent, devoted to the country of officials and they will certainly lead to the community. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 December Ub. During the 33rd meeting of the Sejm, Members of the opposition from the Polish and Modern Republic blocked the sitting room, the Seym's pulpit and the seat of the Marshal of the Sejm. This behaviour completely prevented the work of the Sejm and was a violation of the rules in force. In such a situation, the Marshal of the Sejm is obliged to react and, therefore, at the meeting of the Seniors' Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm asked the presidents of all the clubs to allow the meeting to be held in the plenary room. In the absence of reaction, he decided to change the meeting place to the column room of the Polish Sejm. Kazimierz Puzak. The meeting in the column hall was not a precedent, and on 12 August 2010 the 73rd session of the 6th Sejm was held. All Members were informed by text at the time and place of the resumption of the session of the Sejm, and this information was also displayed on the screens of the plenary room. Contrary to what they said, among others. Members of the PO, the Marshal's Guard did not block members of opposition clubs for the meeting of the Sejm, and the continuation of the meeting was broadcast on the Sejm's website, as well as on social media of the Sejm Chancellery. The meeting of the Sejm in the column room was held in accordance with constitutional and regulatory requirements. All laws adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland were adopted in accordance with the rules and constitution. There is therefore no legal basis for once again holding a Sejm meeting or re-summing the vote. However, the opposition Members did not want to accept the facts, they decided to continue their ridiculous occupation. During a period of several days between meetings, they compromised their activities in Parliament and beyond. There have even been incidents like walking around the room, going through other parliamentarians' things. That kind of behavior is beyond all bounds. Members of the opposition did not want to interrupt their shameful action and tried to prevent the opening of the 34th session of the Sejm. No discussion was beneficial because there was really no willingness to agree on the opposition side. It is clear that its aim was only to divide Poles, to introduce chaos, disinformation, and, as a result, to destroy our homeland. Instead of building a consensus and resolving problems together, Members of the opposition only took care of their interests and tried to overthrow the Government of Law and Justice, which was democratically elected by Poles. Such anarchic behavior corrupts the image of our country in the international arena and works exclusively to its detriment. In the end, the defeat of the opposition simply interrupted the occupation, and the deliberations were opened, but it was necessary to announce a break by 25 January in order to analyse this difficult situation. I am convinced that there should be legal consequences for the Members of the opposition who have broken the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It is difficult to say what else the opposition will go to, but I hope that in the end all its members will come to their senses and understand that the most important thing in our actions is the welfare of the citizens of our country and that it should be our primary goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u434	Thank you very much. I would ask you to take the floor of Alexander Forczynski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 January 1920, after 148 years of the acquisition of Prussian Chojnice, they were within the borders of reborn Poland. This fact was a consequence of the signing on 28 June 1919 of the Treaty of Versailles by Germany, the States of the Entents and their allies. As a result of the provisions of the main peace act of the First World War, which was the Treaty of Versailles, the city of Chojnice and the railway junction was granted to Poland. Shortly after the signing of this act in Chojnice, there were associations bringing together Poles who tried to mark the fact of regaining independence and joining the city to Poland. The Polish Red Cross branch established by Jan Łukowicz Jr., among others, should be distinguished here. organized a nursing course and initiated the so-called uprising. The soldier's inn. The activity of the Polish inhabitants of Chojnice was visible on various levels, also political within the framework of Polish district delegates at the landsrats and over Mayors, whose aim was to take over the local government from German hands. On January 31, 1920, Colonel Stanisław Wrzaliński led by soldiers 59. Wielkopolska Infantry regiment at 3 p.m. 13 entered Chojnice. Polish soldiers were greeted by the Chojnicki governor Stanisław Sikorski and the mayor of Dr. Alojza Sobierajczyk. I accept the city of Chojnice as a part of the Polish land and, will give God, will remain it forever - in such words, on behalf of the state authorities, Colonel Wrzaliński welcomed the city authorities and inhabitants of Chojnice, solemnly assumed in triumphal gates and white and red colours. The symbolic dimension was the gesture of the young Chojniczanka Bronisława Stammowa, who played the role of Polonia on the balcony, breaking the chains and chains of the Prussian captivity. The Germans did not forget this act, Bronisław Stammov was shot in 1939. There was great joy on that day among Poles - inhabitants of Chojnice, the city which was the most organized city in Pomerania. In the evening of January 31st, a group of Polish soldiers removed the statue of Emperor Wilhelm I located on one of the main squares of the city, which met with protest of the German population. On February 1, the Poles formally took over the city. Commissioner Jan Kalet introduced the Mayor of Dr Alojze Sobierajczyk during the solemn session of the City Council. On February 3, General Józef Dowbor Muśnicki, commander of the Greater Poland Uprising, the Wielkopolska Army and the Wielkopolska Front came to Chojnice. The general was welcomed with due honor by the military, local authorities and residents of Chojnice. On the eve of the regaining independence of Chojnice as a native of Chojniczanin I pay tribute to architects of Polish independence: Ignace Paderewski and Roman Dmowski, who signed the Treaty of Versailles restoring Chojnice Poland on behalf of the Republic of Poland. I pay tribute to all those inhabitants of Chojnice who, after 150 years of captivity in the Prussian partition, contributed to the development of Chojnice and the Second Republic in the interwar years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u437	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Both Chambers of our Parliament in December 2015 established the year 2016 as the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. On 22 December 2015, acting as a representative of the land of Archiv, the land of Henryk Sienkiewicz, I invited everyone from this seymary to join in this celebration. Today, when this year and the celebrations are over, I would like to thank all those who visited the land of the great Pole, patriot and writer Henryk Sienkiewicz last year. The year of Henryk Sienkiewicz in the district of Łukow was celebrated in a special way. The cooperation of local government, cultural and educational institutions resulted in many initiatives in promoting the hangmanship of the Polish people. In the city of Łukow there was a statue of Henryk Sienkiewicz. On one of the blocks of the housing cooperative there appeared a mural with an image of a writer. The anniversary of the anniversary of the anniversary: the 100th anniversary of the death of Henryk Sienkiewicz, the 170th anniversary of his birthday, as well as the 35th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) of the Lublin Voivodeship was solemnly celebrated throughout the county and above all in the Museum of Henryk Sienkiewicz in Wola Okrrzejska. The archiv land was actively involved in the nationwide action of national reading initiated by the Presidential pair. There were numerous competitions, exhibitions, rallying. Henryk Sienkiewicz Museum in Wola Okrrzejska boasted a threefold increase in the number of tourists in 2016 compared to previous years. Numerous school groups and individuals coming to the museum from all over Poland discovered the place where the future writer spent his first childhood years of his life learning sensitivity to the surrounding world and creating pictures of family pages, which he often posted in his works. The remnants of 2016 are the efforts of the museum, the social council operating at the same time the museum, the collector's numismatics of Sienkiewicz beat in gold and in silver, in a limited amount, created in cooperation with the Polish Mennice. However, the most important achievement of 2016 is the fact that both young people and adults - people of different states and professions - were engaged in the idea of promoting the figure of a Polish Nobel Prize winner, a Polish language promoter, a patriotic teacher. Despite the fact that the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz passed, on behalf of the director, the Museum staff, on behalf of my own cordially invite you to the place of his birth, to Wola Okrrzejska, where in the surroundings of silence and nature we can ask ourselves a key question: Quo vadis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 500+ programme, adopted by the High House and implemented, enjoys quite a lot of support in society, reduces poverty, supports large families. It is also intended to encourage young people to stay in the country and start families. It's a noble purpose. On the other hand, it was outrageous to me that Auchan carried out a survey of employees in these large-area shops, in which every employee is to voluntarily enter or use the 500+ program. It's supposed to be casual, but knowing the bad relationship between the world of employers and the world of work, I know there's a restriction behind it. And that is true, because, as it turns out, people who collect the benefit of 500+ will not be able to obtain support from the welfare fund and, if already, in a significantly limited way. In my opinion, these are actions that should not have any place in a civilized world at all. And I'm sending the Auchan authorities back to implement this kind of practice in their own country, France. Auchan, where the Independent Self-Solidarity Association operates, did not wish to consult this idea with the union organisation at all, seeking opportunities for social dialogue as an immanent part of life in the workplace space, which is a large-area shop. My regret also coincides with the assessment of many fellow Members of the Law and Justice, who were surprised to receive this news, which has recently appeared in many national media. I would like to assure the employees of Auchan's large-area shops that not only me, but also my colleagues from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice do not allow this kind of practice. We are solidifying with you, ladies and gentlemen, to fight for your workers' rights so that you are not discriminated against for being beneficiaries of the 500+ programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u440	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u441	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! All over Poland we feel the severe effects of smog. The current situation significantly worsens the living conditions of all of us. The media alarms almost every day about the catastrophic air condition in Małopolska. In Krakow, the additional costs incurred by health care services due to excessive concentrations of dust reach up to PLN 700 million per year. In a special way, this problem affects my hometown of Rocks. The concentration of dust in the air here is comparable to the most polluted cities in the world. Meanwhile, this town is picturesquely located next to the Ojców National Park and has huge tourist potential. At the last meeting of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, 14 recommendations were made in the fight for better air quality. The standards for boilers in which we smoke have changed. From 2018 onwards it will no longer be possible to install boilers of lower generation than the fifth. Unsorted and low quality coal is to be removed from the sale. The funding from the National Environmental Fund will be given priority to improving air quality. That's about PLN 10 billion. The Ministry of Energy is working on offering a lower night electricity tariff. Thanks to it, people unable to heat their homes with electricity will be able to heat their homes. The Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers also recommends regulations which will block the construction of aeration wedges of cities. All of this can lead to improved air quality. However, for the fight against smog to be effective, administration needs to be mobilised at every level. Self-governments have a particularly important role to play in sensitising Poles to the problem of smog. The local authorities, irrespective of the activities of the central authorities, may inform about the effects of burning in kilns. I strongly encourage you to organise educational meetings where you can learn how to smoke coal in an efficient and environmentally friendly way. Municipalities can also create or expand their low-emission reduction programmes and should also be widely informed about them. It happens that residents do not know about the existence and functioning of such programmes. Without our joint effort, the problem will not go away. Only together with residents can we effectively improve air quality in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-25-sejm-34-3.u442	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 26 January 2017 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 43]]
