ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u1	I open the forty-sixth Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] It was three times? [[Voice from the room: It was.]] I think we need to oil something. I hereby appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Robert Dowhan to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. I inform you that the Sejm at its forty-sixth meeting on 20 July 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Sports and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, to the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and to certain other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Protection of Employee Claims in the event of insolvency of the employer and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, to the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science and certain other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Housing Cooperatives and to the Act At the same meeting on 20 July 2017, the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 40th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure are already prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 30 June 2017, the Minister of Justice informed the Senate about the processing of telecommunications, postal and internet data and the results of the inspections carried out in 2016. This information is included in print No 543. I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 25 July 2017 took note of the information. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points one, two, three, four, five, six and seven of the draft agenda be examined, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I suggest you change the order of business of the agenda. I propose that item seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the seat between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017 If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[It's okay.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I also propose deleting item 9 of the agenda: information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. and to consider this point at the next summer session of the Senate. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Senator Jan Rulewski raises his hand.]] [[Don't object.]] Does anyone object? [[He wanted to, but he backed out.]] He's pulled out. Yes? Was he forced to withdraw? [[Talking in the O.R.]] What democracy... oh, my God. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2006/22/EC as regards enforcement requirements and laying down detailed rules as regards Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU concerning the posting of drivers in the road transport sector COM ((2017)278 If I do not hear the votes against, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate has approved order... [[Senator Rulewski reporting.]] [[It's too late.]] [[It's too late.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, in that case, I haven't decided yet... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, my proposal to complete the order of this Senate meeting, a short one, is that the Marshal should introduce a point on the examination of the committee's reports on the resolutions that were examined in these committees, but - So far, so good. They have not been considered. This appeal is made, and I am specifically addressing you as a guardian of the rules of procedure, which has the power to accept this proposal without a vote. Do you understand the marshal? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u3	Yes, Mr. Senator, I understand, but I don't have that kind of power. There's a motion from Senator Rulewski regarding... Senator Martynowski reporting? [[And he's probably filing a counterclaim.]] In what mode? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u4	I'm filing a counterclaim. [[Objection?]] Yeah, it's against the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u5	Mr. Senator, I'm talking to Senator Rulewski now. You have to tell me exactly what point, because I don't know, you want to introduce it. What exactly is the point or the point? Next points... Perhaps there are more than one resolutions that we all know about. Because we all know what it's about. I don't know if I'm gonna... We're gonna have to vote it all out. So just so you know, what are the resolutions in turn? [[Yes, thank you. I understand your question. Mr. Marshal, it's all about...]] But no, it's not... You have to tell me which one it is and what you're reporting. We cannot accept a proposal that is vaguely formulated and that is inaccurately formulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, all of them... [[You want all of them. Yes?]] I mean, one who's behind. I know by heart... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Objection, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u7	Uh-huh. Mr. Senator Martynowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u8	I'm filing a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u9	Objection. Good. We are voting on Senator Rulewski's motion. Who's in favour of supplementing the agenda for the resolution you were talking about... Sorry, my card's not working. It's okay. Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 24 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Are there any further proposals for amending or supplementing the agenda? At the moment, it's actually just a supplement. No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement on Headquarters between the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 571, and the report of the Commission In print No 571 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present on behalf of the 2 Joint Committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees. The meeting of the committee was held yesterday, on 25 July 2017. The joint committee was the subject of a draft law on ratification of the agreement on seat between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex, signed in Warsaw on 9 March 2017. I would like to inform the High House that this agreement concerns the placing on the territory of the Polish State, precisely in Warsaw, of the seat of the Frontex agency. The agreement we discussed at yesterday's joint committee meeting includes, among others, issues such as immunity, immunity, diplomatic mail and diplomatic mission privileges; tax exemptions for agencies and their employees; other privileges of agency staff, including the right to reimbursement from the State budget of the cost of education of children of workers; issues of departure and residence in Poland of agency staff, or the obligation of the Polish party to take action to ensure that a European school or accredited European school is established in Warsaw. Four senators took part in the discussion. You asked Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Marshal Adam Bielan, Senator Marek Rocki, and so did I. The questions concerned mainly the free transfer of land for the construction of the headquarters of the Frontex agency in Warsaw, as well as the time, schedule and pace of implementation of the investment. Government representatives have presented us with data on the maintenance costs of the agency from the current year to 2021. I would like to inform the High House that all the senators present voted unanimously in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would also like to ask you about the details of the debate that took place at the committee meeting on this plot. What's her status? Is this perpetual use? Is the State Treasury the owner? Is this communal property? Because I don't know her status, and I just want to get more information on it. And you finally mentioned to the senator in your speech that there was a discussion about costs. I would like to ask what amounts have fallen in terms of the commitments of the Polish party, and what will be the costs associated with maintaining this undoubtedly needed But you also have to look at your wallet. - institutions in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u13	Thank you. Senator Maciej Grubski has another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, the question is, have you talked about the number of officers who will ultimately work at this newly created facility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u15	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank both senators very much for the very important questions that have been raised, in fact, also during yesterday's debate of the joint committees. I answer Senator Jackowski's question: yes, yes, we discussed this subject, also in the context of what is happening with real estate in Warsaw. The representative of the competent ministry informed us that the land is owned by the Treasury. Despite this, the examination procedure was launched by the Polish State and the same procedure was carried out by officials of the Frontex agency. They also carried out this procedure on their own, which, of course, clearly reassured those who formulated these questions. As regards the question of the financial resources that are necessary for the functioning of the agency, I would like to inform you that in the first year these costs will rise to PLN 40 million and will, of course, rise gradually. This is linked to the recruitment of further agency officials. The target state, according to the information we received yesterday, is to be reached, if I remember correctly, Mr Skiba is here, who will possibly improve me. In 2021. In the first year of the establishment of the agency, i.e. de facto this year, this amount was set at PLN 40 million, with PLN 9.5 million being the costs associated with the operation of the school for children of diplomats and officials employed in the agency. Next year it'll be 42 million, next year we'll spend 46 million, etc., etc. Employee remuneration costs lie on the part of the host country, of course, this is a common practice. What is important is what Minister Skiba and Mr General pointed out during our discussion yesterday, namely that the negotiations between the Polish side and the representatives of the relevant European institutions managed to negotiate that the construction costs would be borne by Frontex itself. So this is a commitment that only applies to the agency. As far as Senator Maciej Grubski's question about the target employment level is concerned, 1 000 people will be employed by the Frontex agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u17	Senator Maciej Grubski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me get this straight. Frontex is an organisation that deals with the protection of external borders. This Warsaw headquarters is for Frontex, so to speak, outstanding, but really impractical from the point of view of the agency's tasks. Whether these employees will only be in office at this headquarters or will have other locations in the country, e.g. Closer to the eastern border?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u19	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course, there will be a chance in a moment to address questions to Minister Skiba, who will probably give a more precise answer to them, because yesterday we did not raise this matter regarding the location, whether they would be different, smaller headquarters of this agency. Headquarters, general headquarters... This is also due to a philosophy of the European Union. The seats of the various institutions, which are important for the functioning of the European Union, are distributed in different Member States, and the practice is generally that they are located in the capitals of the Member States of the European Union. In this case, this headquarters of Frontex will be in Warsaw and in my opinion it is a very good place to locate this agency. This will be in this context, in the context of the protection of the European Union's external borders, the most important institution in the European Union and will be located in the capital of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u21	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Jakub Skiba, Minister Renata Szczech and Colonel Marek Łapiński, Head of the Border Guard. Would any of you like to speak? Minister Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. That's a small point of order: in the prints, we call the commandant of the Border Guard a colonel, and in fact he's a brigade general. But this... [[General, I'm so sorry. I've even written a lieutenant colonel. Yes, I'm very sorry, sir, but...]] I'm sorry, it's just a mistake that... [[I'm sorry.]] High Izbo! I would like to respond to those questions which the senators have asked and to which the Senator has answered with a few words of addition. As far as the ownership of this plot and any doubts about it are concerned, I must say that it has been resolved beyond any doubt. This is the property of the State Treasury, which is not subject to any additional claims, so in this respect we are absolutely sure. This property is to be transferred until the end of this year, according to the contract. After the transfer of ownership to Frontex, this will not be an unconditional title, since the agreement contains such a condition that Frontex must start building the seat within 5 years. This is the first essential condition. And the second condition: the plot will be returned to the Treasury if it ceases to be used for the purposes specified in the contract. If, for example, hypothetically, Frontex is transferred from Warsaw to another place or ceases to exist as such, then the State Treasury regains the property of this property. I think these are very good terms. Mr Senator, the rapporteur has made an absolutely correct presentation of the costs that will concern the state budget. In fact, they are down to 2 main issues, i.e. First of all, the reduction in revenue from various fiscal concessions and second of all the expenditure on training children of Frontex employees. Finally, as the rapporteur has stated, these costs will stabilise at about PLN 60 million per year over a few years. Added to this is the value of this plot, which according to current prices in Warsaw is about 95 million PLN. Let me remind you that this is less than 3 hectares of land, this is about the location on the street. Racławicki 132. But the very important thing is that the whole construction of this facility was taken over by Frontex. The cost of building the premises is estimated at EUR 100.130 million. The negotiation of this burden, which will apply to Frontex, should be considered as a major success of the Polish side. As far as the number of officers is concerned, as the rapporteur said, we are expecting about 1 000 people, even with the possibility of expansion, if Frontex is also a gestor of the ATS system. This is an IT system that will earlier signal the intention of a foreigner from a country where there is no visa requirement, a declaration of willingness, an intention to come to the Schengen area. This is a major IT system. The plans relate to the location of Frontex. So that would be an extra 250 people. Of course, all this staff will be in Warsaw, because this is the headquarters staff. In addition, Frontex is naturally using a wide range of officers to report to individual Member States for individual actions. Of course, it is also not excluded to locate temporary or more permanent branches of Frontex, as required. It seems that Frontex's location in Poland is a very good solution from the perspective of Frontex due to the length of the Polish external border. This is also a very important political issue. We need to make our partners from the European Union aware that our border is as important as the southern border, and protecting this border is a very serious European task. So also in this respect, I think, this is an excellent solution. In fact, it is fully shared by our Frontex partners. As regards the remuneration of Frontex's employees, of course Frontex takes on this responsibility. So, as far as the basic questions are concerned, I think I've already answered them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course, I was at a committee meeting and I also took note of the material, so to speak. I would like you, if you know the answer, to answer my question about clarification and explanations regarding the obligation of the Polish party to take steps to ensure that in Warsaw a European school or accredited European school is maintained. At the committee meeting I received information about how these schools differ from the accredited European school. But it wasn't a deadline, so to speak, to start this school. I understand that this term is specified in the signed convention. I ask this because it is already planned for the current year to operate this school, from the entire envelope, out of 40 million, 9.5 million. A brief discussion on the possible seat was also held at the committee meeting. So, as I understand it, there's no specific place to start this school. I'd like you to give me some information on what it looks like and what the timetable for setting up this school will look like. We already have $9.5 million this year. What are we gonna do about $9.5 million? How are we gonna find our target for this school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u25	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. And Mr. Senator later. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u26	Thank you very much. I'd still be digging the land on Racławicka. As I understand it, that's 3 ha and that's the ground. so-called. clean because there are no claims against him. One more thing, Minister. It's in the vicinity, I understand, of the Guards Stadium, the Government Security Office and the Intelligence Agency, because Miłobędzka is close. I have the following question: is this property already built in some way 'Cause I don't know the area. Is it an unbuilt property at the moment? That's the first question. Second question. I don't know if it's the Minister or the General. Thus à speaking, it was Wieniawa-Długoszowski who had a card: Wieniawa-Długoszowski, Brigadier General and later a former colonel, because in the Polish tradition the title of colonel is simply very upbuilding... [[Nobilitating.]] So that I remind you as an anecdote that General Wieniawa-Długoszowski used such a card, General. But I don't know if that's a question for the Minister or a question for the general. What will the cooperation of our Border Guard with Frontex look like? To what extent will it be? And the third question. It's already for the Minister of the nature of such a... You have raised the issue of the agency's political nature. Today it has been reported that illegal immigrants are again coming, especially from Guinea, to Europe, so it can be said that this agency will have a great deal of work in the coming time. At one time the Polish government had the right... or supported the idea to create an international service to protect the external borders of the European Union. Would the Minister be able to approximate whether something is happening in the context of the immigration crisis in this regard, or are we just, for now, remaining in this legal and organisational way of protecting the borders as it is today? Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: Should I answer?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u27	Then maybe Senator Grubski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, one comment. One thousand employees at headquarters, inoperable workers who don't work outside, that's actually a lot. I don't know if it's from $1,000 to $1,000 200. But the question is how many of the 1 000, 1 000, 200 workers you spoke about will be Poles. And how will this be shaped when it comes to the management of Frontex in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u29	May I? Yes? Thank you very much. First answer on Senator Grabowski's question and school issues. So, of course, it is advisable in the contract that the Polish party assumes the responsibility of training. Until the creation of a fully functional European school or accredited European school in Warsaw, the Polish website, first of all, covers the costs of education (subscription and tuition) for children of staff of the Agency who do not have Polish citizenship, who attend a school in which the language of teaching is a foreign language on the date of entry into force of this agreement, until the end of the school. Secondly, it covers the costs of education (subscription and tuition) for children of the Agency's staff who do not have Polish citizenship, who start school at a school in which the language of teaching is a foreign language, up to 35 thousand PLN per pupil in a given calendar year, until graduation in this school. The amount of 35 thousand PLN is valued. Of course, those costs, which, as the senator noted, In 2017, they were estimated at PLN 9.5 million and then they will grow, they would certainly be limited if cooperation with one entity, namely this European school, could be undertaken. Because at this point we're dealing with dispersion, i.e. Frontex employees can send their children to foreign language schools, and the Polish side is obliged, according to the law, to cover these costs. However, the European school... This is mainly carried out by the Ministry of National Education, which issued a communication on 17 July for bodies running schools in Warsaw and surroundings, interested in obtaining the status of an accredited European school precisely in connection with this agreement, in which it proposes to proceed to a procedure aimed at selecting such a school. The deadline for notification is 11 August 2017, i.e. fast action. The announcement refers to the differences between European schools, a school which is founded as if from scratch, or an accredited European school... I mean, the existing school is certified by the relevant European institutions, if, of course, it meets the relevant training conditions, it is also about access to the European Matura and other such requirements. I must say that, according to the Ministry of National Education, this is the most promising course in Europe's accredited school. At this point there are very serious talks with the French school, which is located in Saska Kępa. I, of course, cannot prejudice the results of this competition, because everything depends on the terms and conditions that the tenderers will present to you. In any case, the work is highly advanced. I hope these talks will lead to a quick settlement. Of course, we are aware that these are external entities towards the Polish government, so they will also have to adapt internal standards... It is simply difficult to identify the moment when these issues will be resolved. Hopefully as soon as possible. Of course, the government wants this to go well next year, 2018. Will this be feasible? I don't know. I'm afraid I can't say. So much for school. About those... [[Can I ask you a quick question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u30	You're welcome, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd just like to ask a little question. I mean, specifically, is there a date in this agreement signed with Frontex until we have this school... Because the fact that we're providing children's education to employees... In the contract, in the signed agreement, is there a direct deadline that we need to open school from I mean, it's clear that in 2017 we're starting... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Jakub Skiba: Yes...]] ...but what's the deadline? Is there a rigid deadline?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u32	There isn't. [[There isn't, yes...]] There's no time limit. [[Thank you.]] Of course, there are economic considerations here. It is known that it is more advantageous for the Polish side to achieve this situation as soon as possible. But it is not up to us again because, according to the concept, it is to be this accredited European school, which is an entity independent of the government, if it meets all these conditions and obtains appropriate certification. Then we can cooperate. Because now what the government administration can do, that's what I quote. Speaking of headquarters, Senator Jackowski's question... It's an area that you said it was. It was the seat of the Guardia Club. Currently, there are several unused facilities in this area, these are sports facilities, the stadium, but in a state of far-reaching decomp, various kinds of halls. This area is freely used by various public security institutions, both national and European. Frontex is an example of this. There is a headquarters of the Intelligence Agency, and the head office of the Internal Security Agency is also planned. The FRONTEX authorities after the partition The whole of this is an area of about 10 hectares. They'll have less than 3 ha. There are buildings out there that aren't used. One of these buildings, because it's within the perimeter of the plot, had to be undressed. The second building, in which for some time the seat of one of the medical companies was located, is likely to remove Frontex soon after the transfer of this land. But that's Frontex's job. Cooperation with Frontex is very broad. Border Guard... Indeed, here I will ask the general to answer this question. Third question, political, on the meaning of Frontex's existence... Well, we have to say that... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u33	Minister, I'm... If you don't mind, I'll clarify my question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: Sure.]] There was a concept to create such an international agency for the protection of the external borders of the European Union. The Polish government, rightly, supported this concept as much as possible, among others. on the issue of the migration crisis and the influx of illegal immigrants into the European Union. And I mean, is there anything going on about this? Is there any ongoing action on the part of the European Union, the Polish Government or other European partners, or is it still in the area of some kind of project? Plus, of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u34	I have to make a comment here: the question is very important, but the answer to it is a little complicated. So it must be said that Frontex has experienced a profound transformation under the influence of the migration crisis. In view of the situation at the southern external borders of the European Union In particular, it was Greece and Italy, where there was absolute failure with regard to the border protection system there, and the European Commission proposed a solution that allowed interference with national border protection systems. I will remind you that, in accordance with the Treaties, in line with the whole idea of the Schengen Treaty and also because of the regulations, the Dublin external states of the European Union are responsible for those parts of the European Union's external border, which are at the same time national borders. However, it turned out that Greece and Italy in particular are failing to comply with this obligation. Therefore, the idea was not only to help these countries, but to force them, in the interests of all the Member States of the European Union, to properly carry out their duties through Frontex. And last year, there was a very intense discussion and a negotiated expansion mandate, which allowed the so-called. An interference clause, which means... I will no longer go into the details of this legal solution, but the point was that if a Member State were to refuse support from other Member States, the Commission or the Frontex agency in the event of a clear need and inability to protect external borders, then it would be forced to do so in a way. I don't want to get divorced here because it's a very complicated design. In order to accept such activity, the activities of the Frontex agency, even having to withdraw from the Schengen area, have to be sanctioned. And, of course, this concept, which you are talking about, was once considered, but in the context of this climate, this discussion, the Polish government has reworded its view and point of view. Why? First, the Polish government, Poland adequately protects external borders. These problems, which concern Greece or Italy, where there are holes in borders, certainly do not concern our country. Our country is one of the countries most exemplary in fulfilling the obligation to protect external borders. Secondly, we believe that border protection is our sovereign right in this arrangement. We take on the responsibility to protect borders for other European countries, but these are our borders and we will therefore protect them properly and properly, which we do, of course. And we will gladly accept Frontex's assistance in this area. Thus, from this very assumption and based on the principle of sovereignty and on the principle of responsibility with which the Polish Government takes these matters, we considered that too far-reaching interference and such coercion from the European side is not advisable. We therefore base our relations with Frontex on partnership. And, of course, we firmly believe that, and this is the way we act, so that Frontex does its duty properly. I must say here that there are serious doubts about this, especially with regard to the southern border. There is media coverage that, say, Frontex vessels are de facto involved in transporting illegal immigrants to European territory, e.g. Italy. This aspect doesn't suit us in this arrangement. But as far as Poland is concerned, we have very good experience in this area. I think the general might be able to say something here. Yeah, yeah, ♪ Resume ♪ This formula and this mandate of the agency Frontex, which currently exists, and at the same time its seat in the territory of the Republic of Poland, are, I believe, the best solution for our country. That is the government's opinion on the matter. And with regard to the agency staff... Yes, of course, this is 1 000 people, because we are talking about a wide range of tasks of various kinds, which of course concern the whole area of the European Union. I'm talking about a possible 250 extra people. This building is so dimensioned, shaped as to accommodate such staff. Currently, the staff has about 400 people. Poles are 1/3 of the lineup. Unfortunately, they take positions in most technical, operational, executive, not commanders. And I must say, there are enormous negligence in this regard. These are long-term negligence and these negligence we are trying to repair. This requires proper preparation of Polish personnel, which could effectively compete in various types of competition proceedings and succeed in this respect. This is part of our long-term staff policy, which, of course, we have. I would like to say that there is of course nothing in the contract about Polish staff, because it does not concern this issue. These matters are governed by other normative acts and are subject to the entire decision-making process, which is in force in the European Union. But, of course, the senator is absolutely right, we must repair these many years of negligence. And that's what's happening. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u35	Senator Grubski. [[Mr. Marshal, but the general was supposed to answer my question, this is where you sent the minister...]] Good. [[Later, later.]] We'll finish the questioning to the Minister first. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this may be a question not from the scope of this agreement, but a little wider. Is Frontex... Maybe you got through it somewhere as part of tasks that will also be carried out by Poles. You were talking about technology. Will operational techniques be used in relation to activities in the Republic of Poland? If so, who will really control it? And does this agreement give us the opportunity to do so? Because we would have another service that would have the opportunity to eavesdrop, monitor and conduct various such activities in Poland. It seems to me that they will want to carry out such tasks in Poland. But who's gonna control it? Will there also be judicial review in this case? How will this be implemented? If that's not the case, deny it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u37	Do you want me to answer that? Of course not, it's not gonna happen. Frontex has no right, no mandate to carry out any such activity. These are absolutely unfounded fears.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u38	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u39	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have two questions. One specific issue concerning the issue of immunities and tax exemptions. Will they also apply to Polish citizens who will be agency employees? That's the first line. And the second question, more general, related to the tasks of the agency or the intentions for these tasks. You've already mentioned part of it here... On the one hand, the average citizen is surprised and, on the other hand, it is annoying that the main problem, the one affecting the European Union at the moment, the problem of immigrants, as regards the maritime border in Greece or Italy, is solved in such a way that ships which transport these immigrants, almost linearly, to Italy and Greece, are simply fired, crews are not responding and are conducting the next course. Who should deal with enforcement issues in this regard? Is it the agency or the internal services of individual countries, Italy or Greece?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u40	As far as immunity is concerned... Well, there's a pretty long list here. Of course, the basic question is: does this apply to Polish citizens? No, that exemption doesn't apply. In turn fiscal privileges are specified in Protocol No 7 to the Agreement. The Agency's staff shall be exempt from national income taxes in the case of salaries and allowances paid by the Agency, as well as from any compulsory contributions to the national social security system in respect of income, salaries and allowances paid by the Agency. In addition, staff members shall be exempt from customs duties, taxes and any similar charges of an indirect nature, and from prohibitions and restrictions on imports of furniture and personal items, including motor vehicles intended for personal use, within 12 months of appointment of the Agency. In addition, members of the staff of the Agency shall have the right to export for a period of 3 years from the date of cessation of employment at the Agency, with exemption from customs duties, taxes and any similar charges of an indirect nature, and without prohibitions or restrictions, any furniture and personal items, including their private motor vehicles. In addition, members of the staff of the agency employed for a period of 1 year or longer are entitled to exemption from the tax on goods and services for the purchase of furniture and household goods in the Republic of Poland, with the exception of excise goods, for personal use in the Republic of Poland in non-commercial quantities at the time of first taking up employment in the Agency if the value of the goods purchased exceeds 500 PLN on one invoice This includes a tax on goods and services. The paid tax on goods and services will be refunded to the amount of PLN 20,000. In addition, staff members of the agency employed for a period of 1 year or longer shall be entitled to exemption from the tax on goods and services and excise duties on the purchase in the Republic of Poland of 1 private motor vehicle for 1 staff member once every 3 years during the period of employment of the agency. Well, that parole is conditional. The condition is that, within 3 years of the acquisition, the motor vehicle will not be overused, used by another person, e.g. a family member or used for purposes other than those for which tax exemptions were originally granted. I'm sorry, the next question was... [[It was about crews and ships transporting immigrants to...]] Oh, good, good. Well, this is indeed a broad, very general issue. I must say at the outset that the Polish Government absolutely disagrees with this practice which is being applied in the Mediterranean. It disagrees and declares its disagreement on a regular basis at meetings of the Internal Affairs and Justice Board, which are held each month in Brussels or Luxembourg, and is not isolated in this objection. In fact, most countries stress the lack of logic, sense and serious threats to Europe's security, including the application of the legal system. It is amazing that, despite such a common opinion, there is little going on in this matter. We are dealing with some astonishing business that serves to smuggle economic, economic and economic immigrants from North Africa, because really, as far as refugees are concerned, they are in an excellent minority. And they are involved in this activity, e.g. NGOs, also paid out of European money, which often even take up these immigrants on land. I mean, it's less and less often used to go out on some pontoon on coastal waters, just these people are immediately taken over on land and then transferred to border guards. They are often also Frontex ships, and here is the full consensus that we do not agree with all practice in this respect. So they are taken over by the Italian border guards or other countries and transported to, say, Italy; this is the main country. There they are pre-registered, without proper verification, and immediately the pressure begins on other countries to relocate to receive these migrants. Well, it's a system, I'll tell you honestly, absolutely absurd, and that's not the consent of the Polish government. This is one of the main reasons why we absolutely do not accept this form of immigration policy that is being applied in Europe. It should of course be changed, well, you just have to want It's gonna change. And it is amazing that it is within this best solution that sanctions are imposed on countries such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, for not accepting relocations and not resolving this problem on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u41	Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u42	Okay, Minister. And what exactly are the Polish Government's proposals to stop this influx of economic immigrants or refugees, because it is difficult to distinguish them at first? So specifically, what are the proposals? Because they're bouncing ships, say, off the Libyan coasts... And what do we do with them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u43	The Polish Government recognises that the most effective aid is in third countries. Accepting the transport of economic immigrants in Europe is a pull factor, a pull factor that drives more multi-million-dollar immigrants to seek, try to find easier lives using social security in Europe. And in this way they often entrust the wealth of their lives to smugglers of people. This is a business that is organized, which brings huge profits to criminal factors. This is absolutely unacceptable, under no circumstances. The Polish Government therefore responds as follows. Firstly, there must be structured assistance in third countries, primarily humanitarian aid. In this respect, the Polish government already in 2016 doubled the aid compared to previous volumes, and this year it will increase it for the very different projects that are being implemented. This is the first case. Second thing. The Polish government actively and unambiguously protects borders, with full, so to speak, dedication, and is solidarity with other countries in this respect. Our border guards are taking part in many missions just organised by Frontex, as well as bilateral projects. This particularly applies to countries such as Macedonia, Slovenia, Hungary, but we are also present in Greece as part of Frontex, and we are also present in Italy. In addition, our border guards are scheduled to participate in projects in Libya. This is the second basic method. We believe that these are effective and effective methods of solidarity which the Polish Government retains. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u45	Minister, we know all this, but I didn't get the answer to the question of what exactly to do to stop this influx. Aid on the spot, as you said, will certainly not be enough. Whether there's 1 billion euros or 3 billion euros... And this is Africa, and part of Asia, and Afghanistan, so there's no way that people who run from war and persecution still have to be told about it, because it doesn't necessarily have to be war. And people who run from poverty, hunger and seek a better life... Well, he doesn't have the strength to stop this influx completely, not soon anyway. After all, the European Union has taken action. There's an agreement with Turkey. EUR 3 billion is spent on this. Poland has a share in this, modest, but it does. On the other hand, when it comes to Libya, it is more serious because there is no single government, there is a fight, there is no way to sign any agreement with them. Therefore, immigrants arrive and appear off the coasts, Italian and Greek coasts above all. And my question is this: what does the Polish government propose to the European Union, Italy and the Greeks in a situation where these people will appear on their shores?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u46	In addition to the answers I've already given you to the senator... well, I can elaborate on that. As I said, the Polish Government has declared its assistance to the Italian Government, the Greek Government in this respect, as regards the participation of our border guards in the participation of our asylum experts, our specialists in the registration of migrants. However, the essence of the matter is that if we allow this practice, from which human traffickers benefit most, then we will have a constantly attracting factor that will pump millions of migrants into Europe instead of making them take care of the economic and social development of their own territories. This is a key issue, because this model... Because in most of these countries there are no conflicts, in any case they are not on any lists of countries which, as if they are subject to such special care. These are simply economic migrants who dispose of all their assets, turn themselves in to these, you can say, human trafficking and then are simply smuggled into Europe using all practices corrupting our border services, our systems. This is pure pathology. If we agree to do so, we will break down the European Border Protection System and European Asylum Systems in general. The greatest hypocrisy is precisely that the argument concerning the asylum system is being used to pump precisely this economic migration, and this is all done using various formulas for European solidarity. As for the answer to the question of what the Polish government does, the Polish government does not agree to it. The Polish government believes that aid to these countries should be stepped up, not only humanitarian aid but also development aid, that various kinds of programmes should be created, perhaps of such a nature as Marshall's plan. If we devastate these countries with a simple vision of migration, we will simply lead to global destruction on a global scale. But these are, of course, things that are beyond the scope of this discussion, I think. I would like to mention one more thing here. As far as such concrete solutions are concerned, we are e.g. very involved in readmission policy. The idea is that effectively those who have arrived in Europe illegally and cannot be regarded as being subject to international protection should be sent back to their countries of origin. This requires complex diplomatic, organizational procedures. In this too, we are increasingly actively involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u47	Senator Czerwinski wants to ask, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since my question has obviously been the subject of further questions, I would like to clarify, ask a very simple question to which Marshal Borowski will certainly accept. Tell me, Minister... Let's take Italy, because this is the main direction when it comes to maritime smuggling. Probably in Italy, as in our country, human trafficking and illegal arrival in Italy are also legally prohibited. So how many people that really run this trade... How many ships have been requisitioned, and how many have been arrested before the trial? I'm asking for specific numbers, then we'll find out what politics is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u49	Mr. Senator, I'd really like to answer that question, but I don't have a calculator in my head. I would very much like to reply to them in writing, because here... In any case, this percentage is certainly absolutely insufficient to meet the needs, so it is rather marginal. Rather, we are dealing with a situation of permissiveism and simply allowing it, which de facto means violating the protection of Europe's external borders, protected of course by various legal acts. So the European Union kind of accepts violating its own legal order.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u50	Are there any more questions for the Minister? If not, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Jakub Skiba: Thank you.]] The floor will now be taken by the chief of the Border Guard, General Marek Łapiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I recall, the senator's question concerned the actual involvement of the Border Guard in Operation Frontex, in Frontex and possibly in the protection of the external borders of the European Union. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Border Guard, since her I direct, she has received a clear task from the Minister to increase this commitment. And so statistically... Oh, there's the senator. Last year, in 2016, as many as 433 Border Guard officers took part in frontex missions and worked 735 days. Now let me explain what they were doing. They carried out tasks in those countries where the need for assistance was pointed out, in those countries that did not cope with the so-called. the migration crisis. At first, we sent our officers first and foremost to Greece. This is where Poland and the Polish Border Guard must be commended, because we have shown what to do at the border, what procedures are, how to register, how to check how to recognize these migrants. Europe has lived a little differently so far, especially in the Mediterranean, Greece, such things were not and this Greek Border Guard was completely unprepared for these challenges. High Izbo, I can also say I continue to praise my institution, which I am directing for a short time, that today it is so that our colleagues from Germany also come to the Polish Border Guard to take German police officers into practice. There is no border guard as such, so the point is that we should teach them how borders are actually protected, because Germany, outside airports and the sea coast, does not have an external border of the European Union. This year our contribution has definitely increased. For today I have already posted 414 officers, so almost as many as have been posted throughout the year. We have a good brand. Each of those officers who carry out these tasks after each stay And they are stays of about a month, and they report. And what is the result of these reports? These reports show what the Minister was trying to convey, i.e. that migrants are migrants, but there's always money behind it. And just like the senator asked about smuggling people... This is what we could talk about in the case of Greece, where the section from the Turkish border to the Greek border is 7 nautical miles, and the ticket for the rubber boat cost between 500 and 1 thousand euros. Well, it's easy to say it's a pretty big business. As the senator pointed out, they weren't responsible... Unfortunately, Poland, the Polish Border Guard does not yet have the power to carry out such activities as detention and arrest in Greece, it must be specified in the mission mandate, and these frontex missions do not define it and they will not define it. We can do this on our Polish border and in the case of smugglers of people we do it. That's where we generally register... Registering today is mostly about fingerprinting. Why? Since the number of people who come to Europe has no documents or false documents, it gives a false identity. This is the beginning. Enough hard work to figure out who we're dealing with. The situation in the Italian direction looks a little different. We can say that in 2017 the number of refugees arriving on Turkey's side has fallen sharply. Mr Borowski mentioned here the agreement between Turkey and the European Union, which costs the European Union 3 billion. It actually works, but it works that way that... this number of migrants is, I would say, a certain status quo. If we export to Turkey, say, 100 migrants from the European Union, then Turkey He will send us a hundred of those who are waiting in Turkey to enter Europe. Will the European Union accept these 100 migrants? That's a side topic. Now Italy. The main direction in Italy is the direction from Libya. It wasn't there before, now there's quite a lot going on... This is about 10,000 migrants a week. Maybe it'll be a good description of the Easter case. I'm sure that's when all of you, like me, watched TV. At that time, in all news journals it was quite triumphantly reported that during the holidays of the Great Night the crews of German ships had rescued it. 8,500 migrants. When I returned to work on Tuesday and checked Frontex's data, it turned out that Frontex reported that only 1,000 300 migrants had been rescued. Here's the rift. The ships that operate in that area are those of non-governmental organisations that catch these migrants. It's pretty clear on the front-line surgery map. It shows that from year to year these vessels are catching migrants closer and closer to the Libyan border. This extraction takes place in 2017 practically, so to speak, already on the beaches. I can only assume that, because I do not have this knowledge officially, that there is money behind it, which these organizations receive for every migrant. But, as I say, these are just my guesses as Mark Łapinski. When it comes to smuggling by organised criminal groups, this smuggling is primarily carried out by Africa. A year ago, or earlier, those migrants who sailed on a rubber boat to the Mediterranean did not sail to the port to Italy, oh. They sailed beyond Libya's coastal waters, then they took a phone call and called the Italian Coast Guard or other operators operating in these waters and informed that they were at sea and drowning. And those ships came to them. When such a ship was with them, they stole their dinghy so that they would be taken aboard because of the regulations, to the right of the sea. These people were delivered to Italy. This year the number was so large that the Italians Some 3 weeks ago, there was a meeting in Frontex, they asked the European Union and Frontex, not Poland... Here was the question of how the Polish government could help. The Polish government can help in the framework of frontex operations, within the framework of EU missions. We as Poland... It is not that we and the Italians will sign the agreement in this regard. As I say, the Italians have asked that these numerous migrants caught in the Mediterranean Sea, in the Central Mediterranean Sea, i.e. at the longitude of Italy, be picked up in other ports, not just Italian. The other countries didn't agree to this. None of the Mediterranean countries agreed to this solution. At the working meeting, it was decided that Frontex would return to this solution soon. Now it's August, the European Union's vacation period, so they're not going to do it now. Probably the third or fourth quarter of this year will be the time to solve this problem. As far as we are concerned, we declare our permanent presence in the framework of the frontex missions and bilateral missions, those mentioned by the Minister. Any Member State of the European Union that will turn to us, because it will have a critical situation, will be able to count on us to send our officers quickly or very quickly to help protect the borders. As far as Frontex is concerned, the wording of the operatives is concerned. I have already reassured the senator that the definition of operational staff or operational work is different in terms of Polish and completely different in terms of the European Union. Operational workers in Poland are seen as those who carry out secret tasks and work secretly, and Frontex operatives are those who work substantively as opposed to technical staff, from auxiliary staff. So Frontex will not conduct any operations in Poland. Of course, he will carry out such operations at the border of the European Union with the help of our officers. In addition, from the end of this year in the framework of Frontex we will have organized a group to the so-called. emergency surgery. There are 1 000 500 European Union officials who should be ready to undertake a mission within 3 days. From January 1st next year, this pool of emergency surgeries will begin, so to speak, to act. The Polish involvement within this pool amounts to 100 officers. We can't communicate with Frontex on technical matters. Commissioner Andropoulos recently wrote a letter, which is a little bit due to a misunderstanding of the management system. The European Union, or at least a representative of the European Commission on the board of Frontex, has the right to make it the Union or the board of directors, by name, indicate the Polish officers who are to go to a specific operation. I, as a man, explained reasonably. And it wasn't just me, because a lot of European colleagues did it. It's impossible. Anyone who manages human resources knows that we can say that we will give 20, 30 officers, as many as they want, but not indicated by names, because a given officer can be sick, can be on leave, etc. And that's one of the reasons for the pushing. Of course we have these 100 officers and we offer them today, but we offer them within the overall pool. As I mentioned, 433 officers last year and 414 this year took part in European missions. Our pot is over 460 officers and each of them can go to an emergency surgery within 3 days, but of course I can't guarantee that a particular Kowalski will not be sick. I guess that's it. Are there any questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u52	Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u53	Thank you very much, General. I'd like to ask you a question. We have quite a large area when it comes to the external border of the European Union. This is our border with Belarus, with Ukraine, with the Federation... [[Commandant of the Border Guard Marek Łapiński: Yes, yes. With Russia, with the Russian Federation.]] Yes, with the Russian Federation. I have a question for you. I feel a little bad talking to the general because the general's behind me. Well? It's out of our hands. In any case, I would like to get more information about Poland's contribution to the protection of this part of our border, which is at the same time the external border of the European Union. I met with news in the press that he was directly involved, it seems, 7.5 thousand officers of the Border Guard, possibly correct it. Poland and Poland bear huge costs for this purpose. These are huge challenges and that is, we can say, some of our contribution precisely to the common protection of the borders of the European Union. And I'd like more details here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u54	It is I, at the request of the senator, who invites the general here to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u55	Senator, if I'm behind your back, the senator may feel safe. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm answering the question of our commitment. If we look at the external border of the European Union... the Russian Federation is 2,000, the border with Belarus, in part, another 2,000, piece... Three thousand... three, two, five, seven... I've counted nine thousand officers who are protecting our external border of the European Union. The border guard's budget is 1 billion 200 thousand. He is the same as the Frontex budget, where today there are four hundred and dozen officers employed. We have 15,000 officers and 3,000 civilian workers. So we can see how this institution is underfunded. Or how loosely the European institution is, depending on the side from which we look. We protect this border with all our forces, this is our main task. And we're doing it right. This is particularly evident in the case of Terespol. Almost every day you can read various information about how we do not allow the citizens of Russia of the Chechen nationality to enter Terpola. Why are we doing this? Because they do not comply with the requirements of the Schengen Code. The Polish Border Guard follows the rules, obeys the law. If we date our European partner, we keep our word. And as far as these citizens are concerned, in order to enter Poland, you need to have an entry document plus a visa. I'm telling you that they don't have it. They don't have visas. Why don't they have visas? They have 14 diplomatic representations of the European Union in Belarus, in Russia, embassies of all the countries of the European Union. And if they are persecuted because of anything, they will surely receive such a visa in every embassy of France, Germany and the European Union. Unfortunately, they don't. And then they try to enter Poland across our border in Terespol. And just one train. And it's a deliberate act. It is an action to receive them. We as the Border Guard approach this with understanding and if we see that one of these people deserves international protection, then we allow you to apply for international protection and give you the opportunity to stay in Poland in open centres of the Office for Foreigners or ours. But in general, these people disappear, go west, and the questioners at the entrance show above all economic causes. And then we can't go in. Of course, we were controlled by the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, UNHCR, the High Representative of the European Union Commissioner, NGOs... I'm sorry if I didn't mention someone. On the one hand, we were just controlled by everyone, on the other hand, by the representatives of the European Union countries coming and watching us do it. Of course, they came because they were worried or afraid those Chechens might come in. Because in 2016, at the end of May there was such an interview for the German newspaper, now I do not remember which one, where the chairman of the German police trade unions said that today in Europe the most dangerous border is not the southern border of the European Union, but our eastern border, i.e. the border with Poland, where hundreds or thousands of Chechen terrorists per day can cross. That's what it says. I'll find that text if I have to. At the time, I didn't want to argue with this union rep, and I asked our union rep to respond. Because it's obviously not true, but it's been taken seriously enough that the Czechs and the Austrians... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...they started coming and asking us if it was true that the dangers associated with these thousands of Chechens, who according to their analysis... Yes, if the Germans closed the borders, these thousands of Chechens would allegedly go through the Czech Republic or Austria. And I explained that it wasn't true, but they didn't believe it, so I started inviting them to our outer border, Senator. And after visiting Terespol, after visiting our eastern border, they tell us to this day that it is simply the best protected border in the European Union. Well, I'm glad that's the opinion. And this opinion is the result of the conclusions of our German colleagues to take them into practice and teach them how to do it. This is the highest prize for me. That's all. Are there any more questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u56	Yes. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! General! The question is very simple: were you trying to run another channel Another one in Italian and Greek, running also across the Polish borders? Because that's how it works, if there's a weak spot in some place, it starts to be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u58	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator. Take Terespol, where last year the border tried to storm 800 Chechens a day. When we were dealing with this Chechen town, all the media showed lawyers at the border. There was an organization that tried to support it, and all the saints, all the social activists, tried to put pressure on the Border Guard to get the Border Guard out of their way. But we didn't break. We can't crack because we wear a uniform, we obey the law, we protect our border and we do our job. And today it's not 800 a day, it's 60. And I say that they try to enter Poland illegally, because they do. I am saying that our colleagues in Belarus, if I may say so, do not fulfil their responsibilities. Because it is as if I in Poland let an American citizen on the plane who does not have an American visa. What would happen? This would be an excellent argument for not putting up with visas for Polish citizens, and the airline would pay a huge penalty. As for the other channels, Mr. Senator, they're gone. Of course, we are still operating, operating, entering criminal structures and closing these channels, but they are not dangerous enough to talk about large channels, mass immigration. This is a traditional Vietnamese direction. The Vietnamese are still trying to come to Poland, but this concerns this short section of the European Union border in the east, Lithuania. It's the most popular place there. Of course, there are also attempts to organize Chechen metastasis across the green border. There are a few immigrants from Azerbaijan and Turkey, e.g. Kurd, but these are trace amounts. Is that all, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u59	Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. General, I understand that cooperation in these eastern countries, such as Lithuania, Belarus or Ukraine, is relatively regulated and correct. But I'm sure you guys go to all sorts of meetings, conferences. How do the heads of border services of other Western countries, of the European Union, approach this wave of immigration? After all, you are carrying out certain laws, laws and resolutions imposed by parliaments, by politicians. Well, we know what the situation is in Germany and France. Like they do in conversations. Is it official, or is it, if you might ask, that the clueless situation that is undoubtedly difficult for them?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u61	Let me tell you this: I don't go to conferences very often, but I did attend Frontex board meetings. Once a quarter in Warsaw or elsewhere, if this is an away meeting, I participate in such a meeting, which is attended by representatives of all European countries. Well, the representatives of the old Union don't want to discuss it, because they don't really have much to enjoy. As far as our German colleagues are concerned, it's colloquially... [[I understand, just like us.]] That's right, yeah. The German police have a very difficult situation, because there are a lot of migrants there, there are constant threats to terrorist attacks. All the information I had was kept up to date. Last year was a year of really big challenges. Let me remind you: the visit of the Holy Father, the summit of NATO, but also events of an increased degree of threat, of a critical threat, the type of Woodstock Stop. I gave this analysis to our German colleagues and, thank God, nothing happened with us, but the Germans prevented a terrorist attack that was supposed to be at their festival for such kids. Yeah, well, what's there to say? As far as you're concerned, you know. For such contacts, everyone is rational. Each country is primarily driven by its own interests, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u62	Are there any more questions? You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u63	General, our border with the Member States of the European Union is the internal border of the Union. [[Head of Border Guard Marek Łapiński: Yes.]] Does this mean that we do not protect it at all and allow for completely free entry into Poland from the west, from the south? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u64	Senator, we don't have a permanent border control, which doesn't mean we don't have a border. Since we have a border, we carry out our tasks there, we control and hold dozens of people a week, dozens of people who illegally cross our borders. With regard to the border with Germany, after this article I was talking about, the Germans also asked us to ask Chechens, who from Poland came to them many times, to control already on their way out. I have received such directives from the Minister and we are implementing them, which means we are already doing control at this point. If the border person who applied for international protection didn't show up at the refugee facility... We try to capture such individuals on the way or at the western border. [[I'm sorry. I'm talking about entering Poland.]] To Poland, yes. [[So it's controlled?]] When it comes to entering Poland, standing on the Polish side of the border, we control the movement both ways. If we see a vehicle where a risk analysis shows that an unwanted person can drive it, we stop it. Of course, if we have information about such operational situations from other colleagues, we do it too. We're doing this in the south because we've been stopping and transporting illegal migrants... And in the case of the Lithuanian direction, we do it fairly systematically. We also cooperate with services from these countries, because it is no secret that it was the easiest way to reach the Russian border with Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia. At this point, they have already been to the European Union, so our actions have also focused on the so-called. Suwałski Passion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u65	I don't see any more... Oh, Senator Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u66	I just have one more short question. If these migrants or survivors from the high seas, from this pierced pontoon, are taken up, what prevents them from getting along with one of the African countries and returning them to African ports rather than European ports?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u67	Yes, Mr. Senator, the Minister was just saying that we want to make contact with Libya. If there was someone to deal with in Libya 'Cause there's a few governments in Libya today that don't recognize each other. That would be the easiest thing to do. They might not let these migrants off the beach, but they wouldn't let them in from other African countries and possibly from other African countries. Isn't that right? They could be put away. However, the law of the sea says simply: if a migrant is taken aboard a ship, he has the right to appear in that country depending on the flag. I'm going to go back to this Easter story when German ships were catching many migrants. If you look at the close-ups on the electronic media, you'll notice there was no German flag on those ships. These were ships rented from other countries, which in the future protected our western neighbour from receiving the migrants caught to himself, e.g. Hamburg. [[And this is not considered by the government, e.g. Italian or Greek as a damage to this particular country? It's a spy thing, isn't it?]] It is that... The Greek government today is fairly happy because there is a small influx, so it does not take action in this direction, but it takes action in such a way as to possibly take migrants into other countries, including. to Poland, in this direction works. The Italian Government is working, yes, in this direction too, to get rid of those migrants that it has at home and even has a sneaky plan, how to solve this, namely it will. Monthly visas and migrants will legally disperse throughout Europe. I don't know what the Italian Government will do, because unfortunately they don't talk to us, and if they do, we're talking via Frontex. But of course all the dangers associated with illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, terrorist attacks, etc. They're pulling this movement together... But if I have the right to act there in accordance with all my powers, then maybe I can answer those questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u68	Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, General. [[Main Commandant of Border Guard Marek Łapiński: Thank you, Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! General! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to thank you, General, for that... Are you a general? [[Commandant of the Border Guard Marek Łapiński: I am, I am.]] There it is. I'm sorry. You were in a different place. I'm from Green Mountain, General. I want to thank you for what you have said, and I also want to thank you for what you have done and do for our Nadodrza Border Guard Division, which, as far as I know, is one of the best in the country. I know you praise him and that you like my hometown, the Green Mountain. This is the signal I received from many colleagues who have been working there for many years, who, as you can see, are also vigilant and watching the transmission because they told the general to greet you warmly. I hope that on May 16th, when it's Border Guard Day, you may be able to organize a central celebration of this holiday in this ward. It will certainly be a big distinction for those people who work really hard because the border is big, the challenges were a lot. This whole process these people have been going through, you know it wasn't easy, and today they are, you can say, a model for others. As far as Frontex is concerned, we do not seem to have any controversy, although Frontex itself, as we have heard here, is also controversial, for example, due to non-transparent activities related to migrants. That is, he is accused of being such a gateway, such a bridge that migrants without any control are delivered to the territories of other countries. But it has also been explained in some way that today there is no other possibility, because there is no agreement with another country, but also the law of the sea states that all people must be helped whether they have a passport, a visa or what colour they have. I hope that these issues will be regulated. The very number of people working here, i.e. About a thousand by 2020, from what the Minister said here This is also a big challenge, which is a big challenge when it comes to building this complex. Although I personally take the floor that I am a little sad that this object is being created there, right in the place of the former Guard area, a highly deserved sports club, not only in terms of boxing and football, which he was famous for, but also in terms of discipline, which I am very close to... Because like the Green Mountain, we know, General, that the Falubaz Green Mountain... [[Commandant of the Border Guard Marek Łapiński: I swimming...]] I invite you to watch, to meet at every opportunity, if you visit... A lot of fans are also people who work for you. But I'm sad because these objects were once used, vibrant with sports life. Then there was some confusion when Homeland Security started, and there was a conflict. I also recently went there because I participated several times in the slag competition. Tears are spinning, because when I was in Warsaw, I happened to be in those competitions that were held several years ago, and I have to say that they were very popular. This object still exists today. The inscription "The Guards" is still there. It's actually a historical inscription. He can bid on it for a good deed. It's a pity that this is where it's built, not sports facilities. But what is valuable is that you have made a very wise agreement that, in case of any change, this land of significant value today, because this is a very good location, will always be the property of our Republic, that is, cities, because these are urban areas, and will return to our resources. I'm sure it's very valuable. It's a shame, because as I was preparing for tonight's Senate meeting, and I saw the location, I saw the famous sports names in my mind. There's also the president of the club from Torun, but he's a fresh senator and a fresh president, so as many names as I don't remember. And there were such celebrities as Craig Boyce or Roman Jankowski from Leszno Union, who was a multiple Polish champion. And the Russians drove, for example. Roman Major, and Hungarians, e.g. Tihanyi, and the others. So I'm sure there's a tear in the eye. I'll vote in. I keep my fingers crossed for all these assumptions and plans to get along with other countries and to continue to be a model. For such power as Germany, which was built much earlier and too much more money. That's what I wish to the general and the minister. And once again, I invite you to Green Mountain. Maybe we'll meet on May 16 at your holiday, which I'm asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! General! Dear guests! I also want to join in thanking the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Border Guard, and I do it with sentiment, because my uncle, my grandfather's brother, was an officer of the Border Protection Corps, a commandant in Ostroga. In Miednoje in 1940, he was killed with a gunshot to the back of his head, dividing the fate of more than 20,000 Polish officers and employees of the state administration who died in this genocide. High Izbo, Frontex was created in completely different realities, let's call it political in the European Union, because it was created in the mid decade of the 10th century. It was one of those agencies that were supposed to coordinate European countries' policies in some area. At the moment, we should be glad that one of these important EU agencies will be established, and this permanent establishment, in Warsaw. And it was in a very good place that the Minister spoke extensively about it. Indeed, Racławicka 132 is a very good address for people who know what this address is. There will also be many important institutions that are important for the security of the Polish state. It must be said that after these statements and the general's, and the minister's, I do have doubts as to whether this institution "which is undoubtedly necessary and which has the powers it has and the political realities within the European Union are at the moment as they are able to bear the problem facing the European Union as a whole, concerning the uncontrolled influx of immigrants and visitors from outside the Union or territories of the European Union. This is, High Izbo, a very serious problem, a problem that has very different effects, because it has political implications, has economic effects, has cultural effects, has social consequences, and today has been published German research, which shows that it also has sanitary effects. It is no secret that the level of access to the health services of European Union citizens and the availability to the health services of visitors to the European Union are two different worlds, and this also produces specific effects. So we see that we are facing a very serious problem, a very serious problem that requires far-reaching cooperation, but also, above all, A sensible and not a ideological policy in this area. And that's the challenge. undoubtedly for the Polish government, this is a challenge for the leaders of other Member States, it is also a challenge for Brussels, the European Commission, how to counter in a wise, humanitarian and at the same time effective way. And that's a huge challenge. Poland can play an important role in this area in the European Union. I knowingly asked General Łapiński about the level of our contribution to the protection of common European borders. He's not small. The general recalled the number of 9 000 officers directly involved in guarding this section of our border, which involves certain costs, which the Polish taxpayer also incurs, so it is a clear contribution of our country, Poland, Poles to actions or joint ventures of the European Union. And that's why Poland... The general himself mentioned that the highest appreciation for the general and the Border Guard is that the officers responsible for border protection from other countries want to train in Poland. Poland has significant achievements in this area, achievements which can serve others, and this is undoubtedly the title, among others. so that the Polish government in this matter plays an important role and that we come out of a certain or naivety or ideology of the problem, they only collided with it and stood in the truth. We should also mention that we are talking about an influx from the Middle East, but we are also talking about an influx from the Middle East. Or above all, We're gonna have a problem... This is confirmed by all analyses and analysts that the main direction of migration to Europe will be Africa, Africa, which is currently very dynamically developing demographically. With current access to technology, the possibility of exchanging information can be faced with situations that will be uncontrollable. Also from this point of view, the presence in Warsaw, at such an excellent address, Racławicka 132, Frontex, is important. And let's hope so. And I'm expressing some optimism here. However, the common sense and rational approach to the problem facing the European Union will ultimately prevail, and hopefully also the Border Guard, which is taking a lot of action... The general didn't mention it because we didn't ask about it, but at least in my district, I'm talking about northern Mazowsze. to foreigners who legally work on the territory of the Republic of Poland. And there are areas in Poland, e.g. northern Mazowsze, more specifically, the district of Płoński, where tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens work seasonally in field work or in the field of agriculture. These are also the tasks that you monitor, on behalf of the Polish State, you have specific tasks in this field. I would also like to express my thanks here for this daily service, for these daily activities, to the Minister and your general as chief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! General! Like everyone else, I'll thank you later. However, we must all be aware of the state of security of the Polish borders that the Government of Law and Justice, led by Minister Błaszczak, Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Minister Jakub Skiba, has found. The previous coalition, PO-PSL, was the subject of extremely political decisions. Indeed, in an economically unjustified manner, some of the miraculous branches were destroyed. I mean the Carpathian Border Guard unit. A branch that was, let's say, in the rankings in Europe was wound up in third place. It wasn't seen that the entire southern border was opened. The statistics and facts were not looked at at at all. That the largest transfer of women, weapons and drugs, that the largest number of refugees from Africa, from Ukraine passes through the southern border. It was not looked at at at all that Nowy Sącz and the Carpathian branch were very closely linked to the district attorney's office, nor that the branch was adapted to the stay of the detained immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a decision. really extremely political. And today we must thank Minister Jakub Skiba, General Łapinski, that the first decision that was made was to ensure the return of the Carpathian Border Guard Division to seal the entire southern border. And it worked out great. What General Lapiński mentioned here... Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, actually recently there have been a stop of tirades in which immigrants are transported from Africa to Poland. And we really need to thank them for opening up these trucks and saving the lives of those people whose health is critical. I'll tell you more. I'm watching the Border Guard, and I don't have the kind of fear Senator Jackowski has. This guard is well-trained. And the safety of Frontex... I really don't have any worries, they'll be fine. These are highly qualified men, young officers. I am talking about the Carpathian unit, the best in Poland, Europe and even the world. They speak several languages perfectly. That's enough, Mr and Mrs. Dear, I'm watching... The Carpathian Border Guard Division is the best anti-terrorist brigade. Maybe it wasn't right for General Łapinski to say that they're still being sent to the Balkan countries to keep order. Maybe it wasn't right to tell him. It was not fair to tell him that this anti-terrorist brigade drives all over Poland to eliminate drug gangs. What the media has been saying lately... They were just in Green Mountain to take out gangs like that. I'm really calm, Mr. Senator Jackowski, that they're gonna do great. They'll be fine. Really, I've been watching these guys, and I've watched them dozens of times... Once they even invited me and showed me how at night these drones actually illuminate and identify, Dear Lords, where immigrants are. Dear Lords, I have such an appeal to all of us and at the same time a request, because we all praise, but if we want the Border Guard to function perfectly and there was the security of the state, we must not forget the money, the budget for our country's security. It's not that much, because I'm perfectly oriented... you have to buy new helicopters, because actually, in those places where they were, the previous crew has eliminated and therefore you really need money. I will say this, at the hand of Minister Jacob Skiba... Please thank this horribly attacked minister Mariusz Błaszczak for the fact that we can sleep peacefully, that all Poland, all Polish borders are secured. And at the hands of General Łapinski... Thank you very much, General, for the tremendous work done by the Border Guard Headquarters to seal these borders. Because I don't want to go into the history of the Carpathian ward, just like Senator Jackowski, but it was a huge drama for me to destroy history. 'Cause it's called the Carpathian Border Guard Unit. The Podhale shooters who fought at Narvik, near Tobruk, who went to Monte Cassino and also fought at Monte Cassino for free and independent Poland. And just because there wins Law and Justice in a brutal way It was the biggest political corruption. This branch was wound up. This unit was being decommissioned. I know that our speeches are also watched by civilian workers and border guards, and I'm sure they're joining these thanks, because I know how they approach... They said there wasn't a minister, a chief, who was so huge... Because, Mr. and Mrs. Dear Lords, the Border Guard is under the authority of the Minister here present Jacob Skiba. And they really say there's a huge, huge joy in the officers, that it's a huge security... And let's not really forget that money in the state budget to finance... I'm talking about the Carpathian squad, because a friend of mine... I am pleased that a fellow Senator Secretary from the PO praises our ministry and our people so immensely. I'm so happy for you, buddy Robert, because... this isn't about slag, I see how they ride on quads, on a lot of other things... And so, since there's so much support, I guess with the budget, my hand will go up. So, Minister, General, thank you very much on behalf of the Carpathian Border Guard Division. The Podhale shooters. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But Mr. Senator didn't say anything about that.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u74	Mr. Senator, yes, please, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u75	Thank you very much. I feel like Senator Rooster. I don't think he fully understood the intentions of my speech... [[Roger that.]] ...because I had no doubts, and I absolutely did not show them in my speech, that the Border Guard could not do it, but I expressed my concerns about whether the European Union was able to create, as the European Union, a crisis-solving system that is currently in progress in the European Union and which, according to all signs in heaven and earth, will increase. And only in this respect was my speech. I absolutely didn't give a word or... I didn't even have a shadow of a doubt that the Border Guard officers were doing their daily work properly, modelly, with full dedication and commitment. And I would like to stress this very clearly, because, as the senator himself noted, we are listened to by both officers and civil servants of the Border Guard, but perhaps also by other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u76	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear fellow Stanislav, Football fan, Railwayman, I didn't praise the ministry... [[And that's bad, that's bad.]] ...but I praised people who have worked for many years without looking at political divisions, without looking at ministers who have really done a lot of work, putting their hearts into this service and wearing this uniform. And I didn't do politics here because that wasn't the point, Dear Senator. Thank you. [[And I don't want to speak anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u78	The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 572, and the report of the Commission In print No 572 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Margareta Budner, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Health Committee which took place yesterday and on which the committee was working on a law amending the Health Information System Act and some other laws. Minister Piotr Gryza, present at the meeting, presented the subject of this law. It introduces a number of changes that can be thematically divided into 2 main groups. The first group consists of the creation and functioning of medical records and the second includes various aspects of electronic medical records. As far as the first group of changes concerning medical records are concerned, this law determines the construction of those registers. They will be created by the Minister of Health at the request of a specific body by means of a regulation. The Act also transfers the function of data administrator from the Minister of Health to the entity keeping the medical register and extends the list of entities keeping the medical register to the National Health Fund. The Act also requires the provision of data to registers free of charge by service providers or entities keeping public and medical registers. It allows the transmission of information between individual registers, linking them and correcting data. The Law also lays down the conditions for financing. Medical records will be financed by the Minister of Health through measures for health policy programmes and through targeted grants. So much for medical records. The second group of amendments introduced by this Act shall include electronic medical records. The Act clarifies the definition of electronic medical records itself, distinguishes the various elements such as e-recipes, e-scruisers and other documents, among others. a discharge card, a medical card from a specialist to a doctor writing a referral. Currently, the catalogue of electronic medical records services is open and will be modified. This catalogue is contained in the Regulation. The next amendment introduced in the Act is to postpone the deadline for the implementation of the various elements of the P1 project, i.e. the electronic platform, namely the shift of the obligation to issue e-prescriptions to 1 January 2020, e-directions to 1 January 2021 and the remaining electronic documentation to 1 January 2019. The Act also amends the Act of 20 May 2016 amending the Act on Public Blood Service and certain other laws. This amendment concerns the extension of the deadline for implementation so-called. E-blood system until 31 December 2019 The next amendment is introduced in the law on civil status. This amendment also concerns the extension of the transitional period, specifically as regards the transmission of information contained in birth cards, dead birth cards and death cards. During the proceedings of the Health Committee, this law did not raise much controversy. The legislator pointed out that the definition of electronic medical records is currently out of focus and requires a review of the regulation. The Minister explained why this definition is now out of focus. This is what I was talking about earlier: the catalogue of medical documents is now open and requires closure in the future. Senator Tomasz Grodzki asked, among others. the reasons for extending the deadlines for introducing and securing the financial resources for the IT system. The Minister has assured that the State budget funds have been and will be provided. With regard to delays in the introduction of individual elements, he assured that the cascade of change would ensure the success of the P1 programme itself. Previously, there was an attempt to make these changes at the same time, but it failed. During the committee meeting there were also discussed problems related to medical registers themselves, which are currently in Poland 6. The Minister stated that the obligation both to provide data to individual registers and to exchange these data between registers and to clarify the financing of these registers would improve and increase their ability to create them. The Act at the Health Committee was adopted unanimously, without amendments, and I therefore dare ask the High House to adopt the Act without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than 1 minute of a request to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have one question which, as it were, came to me while reading the material, and the other which I do not know if you will be able to answer, but I will eventually address it to the Minister. My point is whether during the committee meeting it was justified why such an extension of the deadline for the introduction of the e-blood programme is particularly considered. What is the special feature of this proposal, why it was chosen on 31 December 2019 to issue a regulation on this matter? Was that the subject of a committee meeting? And second question. The Act regulates the authorisation of the use of paper documentation. Do you have any information... Was it possibly the subject of a committee meeting, what restrictions are in order and generally when paper documentation will be replaced by electronic documentation, at what time, according to which timetable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u82	Thank you very much. As far as the e-blood system is concerned, it was not discussed in detail at the committee meeting. As far as shifts are concerned, they concern not only the e-blood system, but also e.g. referrals or prescriptions, as I have already mentioned, these changes will be implemented one at a time. And the year 2019 in the case of e-blood is not the largest shift. The largest transfer concerns the Law on Civil Status Acts, where the transfer is until January 2023. This gradual introduction of changes is intended to ensure greater fluidity and, I hope, the success of their implementation. And as far as paperwork is concerned, as I mentioned, these shifts, when, for example, I want an e-recipe functioning... that's the limit from which an e-recipe is to function. But it will, as I understand it, be a previously implemented certificate, and there will be a deadline for which the paper recipe will also apply. If I'm wrong, the Minister, I think, will complete it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u83	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have one more question. I do not know if this was the subject of a committee meeting, but it is a topic that is particularly close to me. The Act introduces or extends the scope of operation in the health system by means of electronic data exchange. Was there a talk at the committee meeting about the Silesian Department of the National Health Fund, in which, perhaps as the only one in the country, it has been functioning for many years, so to speak, this electronic system? And whether at the implementation stage this system will be able to be adapted to... Because everywhere, in other, other voivodships, these systems will be implemented almost from scratch, and in the Śląskie voivodship such a system already functions. Was there a speech about it? If not, then I will ask the Minister how this system will be adapted, especially in the Silesian Voivodeship, in which it has been operating for many years?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u85	No, there was no mention of that, about the Silesian branch. [[That will be the question to the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u86	Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, most of what I wanted to ask you, you've already touched on Senator Grabowski, but I will also mention something. Well, I am concerned about these long-term deadlines for introducing certain regulations, because, as Grabowski's colleague said here, these chips cards in Silesia have already been in place since AWS. Therefore, I have a question: if only in Silesia it works, and it is not the worst, should Silesia feel distinguished in connection with this, or should it be discriminated against? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u88	I can't answer that question. I don't want to discriminate against Silesia, but I think the Minister will help me answer that question. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u89	Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes, I am ready.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator! I'll try to answer the questions that have been asked. E-blood case. Here, the Act extends the validity of the Regulation. This case is related to the fact that simply the system that was to be implemented will be implemented a little later. This is the first case. As regards the deadlines related to the electronic platform for the exchange and analysis of medical records, in short, the project failed. I mean, it didn't end so much... It was simply not carried out in time, mainly because it was too big. The construction of this project was planned through this matrix structure: the artists were selected, who were responsible for some functionality, but all these functionalities were tense together. This was not achieved and a different concept of the project was adopted, i.e. in stages, that is to say, to carry out specific products as a whole. And total products are e.g. prescription, referral and finally exchange of electronic medical records. The project was authorised by the European Commission to phase out. That means it can be financed in two phases. And what was done by the end of 2015 is the first phase, and what will be done in the next years is the second phase. This phase is divided into stages related to products. The Act introduces a certain distinction as to dates. Paper prescription based on the relevant provision It's an art. Paragraph 56 No later than 31 December... Sorry, recipes can be issued in paper form until 31 December 2019, but individual healthcare providers will have to be prepared to issue electronic prescriptions and to market such prescriptions a year earlier. During this year it will be possible to check whether this system will work. A similar mechanism works in the case of referrals. The referrals may be issued in paper form until 31 December 2020. Service providers are required to report to the health minister's subsidiary CSIOZ is the right entity P1 will be able to connect its systems to the electronic platform for the collection, analysis and sharing of digital resources with medical events, i.e. P1 no later than 31 June 2019. This time between the notification of this readiness to the system and the obligation to use electronic documents is intended to allow for the smooth introduction of this solution, as well as to ensure that in this large number of prescriptions or referrals, because in the end it is a huge scale, there were no errors. The same applies to documents issued under the law on civil status records. We move this date to 2023, which means that the P1 project does not yet cover these documents, due to the failure to complete the project that took place at the end of 2015. You have to do something in stages that will work and then move on to the next phase. That's where these forward shifts come from. The funds to complete the phase-out of the project, the investment funds... We hope that this will be financed It's okay to do that. From European funds, from the Operational Programme - Poland digital. Senator, using a shortcut, in response to Senator Grodzki's question, she said... We at the Health Committee meeting talked about the fact that operational programmes, regional operational programmes, have resources to finance the investment of medicinal products in IT equipment. We also talked about the fact that the steering committee, which is involved in coordinating the conduct of operational programmes financed by European health funds, has set out recommendations in this regard. It was one of the first movements in 2016. Adoption of recommendations enabling investments in electronic medical records. The important thing to add is that the Act gives the National Health Fund the opportunity to keep records. This is the largest database related to the Polish health system based on the reporting system. The possibility of creating medical records will enable this database to be enriched with analytical data. Moreover, the Act gives the National Health Fund the right to receive data from other medical records. That's why I'm here. That's what the senator mentioned. The National Health Fund can clip data from many different registers as well as from its core reporting base. The Act organizes the way the registers are financed. It gives the Minister of Health the possibility to finance registers by means of a budget grant and sanctiones that part of the registers, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, is financed by a health policy. Such a holistic approach offers an opportunity for registers to actually become an important source of information and to enable health policy to be pursued in a broad sense, including better use of the data that are stored in medical registers. The largest medical register in Poland is the National Cancer Register on a very important issue related to the incidence of cancer and the treatment of cancer diseases. It is worth mentioning here something about the development of maps of health needs. In order for these maps to be properly developed in the field of cancer, data from the National Cancer Register had to be corrected and supplemented with data from the National Health Fund. These maps are kind of based on these two important sources. In some areas, all these data had to be corrected and consistent. This allows you to have full analytical material. It was thanks to the right which I mentioned, i.e. obtaining data from registers by the National Health Fund, that this possibility was created. Moreover, the Minister for Health was given a delegation through a regulation to indicate in the regulation creating medical registers who should transmit data to the designated medical register free of charge. I hope my answers are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u92	Minister, I think you left out... I think you've figured it out. I mean the Śląskie voivodship and famous chip cards. This is the only voivodship in the country where we have, so to speak, databases and where medical procedures are recorded, and patients are operated on the basis of a system. What's it gonna look like now? Will our system be able to be somehow from the automatic system implemented, embedded in the IT system built, I understand, in other parts of the country? Will he be a fully functional system? Will the system that has existed for many years require remodeling, remodeling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u93	These are, you could say, two areas. The card you mentioned to the senator is primarily used to confirm the occurrence of the incident. And the bill concerns a different category of documents. It concerns the prescription and referral and the possibility to exchange electronic medical records as defined in the Act. The draft regulation, which is annexed to the Act, refers to these documents, i.e. prescriptions and referrals, as well as information documents related to the treatment of a patient in a hospital or a specialist's doctor, as well as documents for refusing admission to a hospital. This is another area. There's no contradiction between one and the other. I can say, by the way, that at the moment there is a program related to e-proof, which should take into account the cards associated with each patient in a broader perspective. An example here is the Silesian branch or the Silesian province. The system of electronic medical records concerns the exchange of this documentation, as well as the exchange of documents such as prescriptions and referrals, so that documentation circulation is not based on paper, but that a prescription issued or issued is directed... so that there is access for each of the providers to the system in which these documents are located. This would significantly improve turnover and improve the ability to register patients for selected referral services.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u94	Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have specific questions about the contents of the bill. The first concerns the introductory provisions. That is why it is postponed until 15 December 2017, the entry into force of Article. 4, in which it really only changes, or in fact the date of the amendment to the law on civil status files is postponed? Why this provision, which aims to remove a certain category of provisions, extend over time Oh, maybe it's better this way. He comes in so late, not with the whole bill? That's the first question. The second question concerns Article. 13 of the mother's bill, which was cut out, was removed. Namely, there was a delegation to the Minister responsible for Health to determine the formats of electronic medical records, organisational and technical conditions, access conditions, etc. Who's gonna define these formats now? Because this article was removed here, and in his place... It's like there's an art like that. 13a, but it recognises this very narrowly, namely the Minister's regulation is intended to define only types of electronic documentation, but not those standards. Will that mean that anyone who wants to impose their standards so that they are incompatible with each other? And the last question, the third question, concerns a new definition of electronic medical records in general. Question: Is it wider, or is it narrower than the last one? And the next question is, what about this file that is now included in the medical records? Because there is no transitional provision that states that what is electronic documentation so far will become electronic documentation in accordance with the new rules. Whether it's as if it's being treated by default, or for example we're going to have to do something here on a unit basis, i.e. Is there any way to confiscate, authenticate this documentation? These three questions, as I say, are about transitional issues on the line: the old law A new law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Right now, electronic medical records... This definition is divided into 3 acts: it is this law, the patient's rights law and the regulation on documentation, which is issued under the patient's rights law. The regulation of the Minister for Health issued on the basis of a statutory delegation lists internal and external documentation, including external individual documentation. And the electronic medical records were intended to cover external individual documentation, but this involved an analysis of several legal acts. Here there is a significant simplification, a simpler definition of this, because we define electronic medical records as documents on the basis of which we receive specific benefits, i.e. This is about prescription and referral, as well as de facto information documents, because this is an information card from hospital treatment. This is the case with the draft regulation, the medical professional's medical card to the doctor who issued the referral and the refusal card to go to the hospital. De facto, there has been no obligation to exchange electronic medical records so far, and all the information contained in these 3 information documents is now in paper form. This is one element. The second element concerns standards. It is because giving the health minister the competence to issue regulations setting standards has proved impossible in the sense that these standards have a very detailed technical or technological dimension and are linked to the implementation of the P1 project. One of the elements of this project is that in order to exchange documentation, a standard of exchange needs to be established. And these will be the elements of this project. Therefore, at the moment, the Minister of Health is not required to draft and issue the relevant regulation, only these standards are published on the Public Information Bulletin website. This ensures a more efficient operation and de facto adapts it to practice, to life. It's just easier. But it is clear that these standards need to be published, otherwise you will not be able to exchange medical records. As far as the date of entry into force is concerned, it was a sejm amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u97	Minister, in the meantime... I'm a little allergic to seismic corrections, especially after what's been going on lately. Why am I talking about this? Because the bill comes into force. When do you give a different date of entry into force? When there's a reason. But I do not find any reason that in the law on civil status the extension of the period, i.e. leaving the old state, is implemented only on 15 December, and not as soon as the entire law enters into force. I just don't see a logical reason why it's an exclusion when it comes to art. Point 8 (1). Someone probably somehow argued why it's turned off. Because you know what I'm afraid of? That once again the Seym amendment will be such that it will heal the bill so that it will not be implemented, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u98	No, it is related to the fact that these civil status files can normally function before a date that is relatively distant, i.e. 2023, and that no regulations need to be issued. This is a legislative amendment designed to make this possible. The point is that there's time to draw up the right regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u99	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed... Oh, I'm sorry. I'd like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The text of the Act is contained in print No 568 and the report of the Commission In print No 568 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u100	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the proposed law is to introduce a solution to facilitate the sustainable development of our country in the area of renewable energy sources by changing the system of calculation of the unit replacement fee. It is an element to make the green certificates market more flexible and in the long term to reduce the over-supply of certificates on the green certificates market. Minister Piotrowski, President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Maciej Bando, and Chairman of the Sejm Committee Marek Suski was present at yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee. Two amendments were tabled by the Legislative Bureau during the meeting. The first amendment, the aesthetic amendment, was not accepted by the government. Nor did the second amendment on the introduction of transitional provisions. The discussion referred to four requests made in writing by external organisations. Some of the demands of the Polish Bank Association, including the two amendments proposed in these proposals, were taken over by the members of the committee as so-called. minority request. 2 amendments plus a proposal to reject the law in full This was the conclusions of the minority. As a result of the substantive discussion, doubts concerning the scope of the subject matter were resolved. In the vote, most of the current senators rejected the motion to reject the law and accepted the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. If that is the will, I can now say more about what this law is about and how it affects the future of the Polish economy, and if not, I will discuss it later. I'm sure some of this will be done by the Minister here. If there are any questions, I'll answer them, but on my part, I think that's all about the report on what happened at the committee meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the conclusions of the minority of the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! A minority of committees submitted 2 proposals: a proposal to reject the law and a proposal containing 2 amendments. First of all, I would like to say that proceding this law should cause not so much surprise as concern. If, according to the Minister, a major amendment of the RES Act is being prepared for September, and no urgent reason has been identified for which partial changes must be made immediately, then the question arises as to why such haste and what is the point. We tried to find this out during the committee meeting, especially since, as we have heard, there were no social partners, no representation of entrepreneurs, and even the President of URE was not allowed to take the floor. Although the chairman of the committee, Mr Suski, claimed that such an invitation had been made, but he denied it, ladies and gentlemen, President Bando himself. How was it that a representative of such an important institution could not participate in the procession? And if we take into account that everything about huge money and a very large group of entrepreneurs has been processed in the Sejm for 2 days, i.e. in the mode, well, extremely accelerated, it must raise serious doubts. Unfortunately, bad seym customs also sneak into the Senate. We were prevented from asking questions after the statement by the President of the URE, which was extremely critical of both the mode and the purpose of this presentation. Representatives of the Economic Chamber of Renewable and Distributed Energy, representatives of the Polish Wind Energy Association, representatives of the Polish Bank Association, and actually the president of this association spoke. All these actors were strongly critical of the proposals put forward in this amendment. When I wanted to ask you why the data submitted to Members was false, why the real financial consequences for energy end prices were not shown, unfortunately they were not allowed to answer these questions. This is an absolutely outrageous situation, because how can we proceed when it does not allow us to answer key questions. Those questions that were asked, the Minister answered smoothly, but very carefully. Not always true, what was then scored by the social partners, literally scored: the Minister spoke not quite the truth in this matter, in which he completely missed the truth, etc. All this means that we are presenting a law to the High House which raises doubts about the purpose, because, according to the participants of the meeting, and especially the Energy Regulatory Office, the aim set out in this law will not be achieved at all, whether to a small extent it will be achieved, and on the methods that have been chosen and on the effects, especially on the effects. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the increase in energy prices that will undoubtedly occur, our doubts And to a greater extent, far greater than the one presented in the Sejm. The issue of contracts already concluded is raised. The Minister claims that they were covered as civil law contracts by certain regulatory risks, but were concluded under certain circumstances, in a certain legal state. It is therefore to be expected that entrepreneurs who lose very clearly on these regulations will demand that these losses be compensated for. They will demand not only in Poland but also in the European Union. It is true that, directly, Minister, this type of regulation is not covered by EU law, but it is not entirely true, as demonstrated by the example of France. Such a path is, such a path is wiped out and such a path can be started if these rules are adopted. It will threaten Poland with serious sanctions. We also raised the question that it is a nail to the coffin for most companies producing energy from renewable energy sources, especially wind energy. It is therefore appropriate to establish whether a reduction in the level of the substitute fee so much can make production from these sources not profitable in connection with the previous rules which have already imposed additional burdens on renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen, we're getting to the bottom of this. Namely, this government is wrong about the issue of supporting renewable energy and seems to share the position expressed here in the work on the RES Act by many Senators of Law and Justice that supporting renewable energy is some huge mistake, and climate change is a bluff. And so the government says, let's not go this way because it costs and puts our carbon energy at extra costs. Well, such an approach is absolutely unacceptable. If this law is implemented, the promotion of renewable energy will actually be called into question. The profitability of this sector, which was guaranteed an appropriate level of public support, will be reduced to a minimum. Who's gonna benefit from that? It will gain some energy giants, state energy giants. The rest of us are gonna lose it. This seems to be against EU policy. I am convinced that the European Union can try to look at these rules with particular insight to ensure that EU policies are implemented in this area, which I believe is right. The fact that countries with only renewable energy sources cannot yet be identified is true. But it is also true that there are countries that have set themselves such an objective and have all the data to achieve it in the coming years. It's not like we're stuck with traditional energy. She's obviously needed. It's essential right now. However, we should move forward in the development of renewable energy and systematically increase its share of energy supply as far as we can. And this proposal contributes to the fact that we will have a reverse process. If you believe the entities that were there And we have no reason not to believe them. After implementing this law, a large group of companies may fall out of the market. In this way, the share of renewable energy sources in our energy mix will be reduced. This, generally speaking, is the reason why we applied to reject the law in its entirety. In the event that this proposal is not supported by the majority, we have put forward proposals for amendments which are a kind of compromise between what is proposed in the Act and what would ensure, at least, a minimum level of profitability for the renewable energy sector. I ask you very much to reflect on whether we should give in to the traditional energy lobby and thus oppose EU policies to promote renewable energy, to undermine the efforts of many companies who, seeing that we are on the EU road, have invested, and now may not stand on the edge The analysis of the effects of the previous rules, at least those that I have encountered, shows that these companies are already balancing at the cost-effectiveness limit today. After these changes are introduced, they will be below the threshold of profitability, as confirmed by representatives of the Polish Bank Association. So these are strong arguments for rejecting this bill now. I assure you, no harm will come to anyone. And if the Minister was serious about the fact that we will be dealing with the rules governing this market again in September, then there will be an opportunity to return to this issue, but in a thoughtful way, with a normal legislative path, without any suspicion that some lobby has influenced the shape of the rules and that the stakeholders did not have the opportunity to speak on such an important matter. And already a complete scandal is that, I repeat, the president of the most interested office could not participate in the work on these regulations earlier. That is why I am calling, first of all, for reflection, for a vote against this law and if not, for the adoption of the compromise version contained in the amendments which a minority of committees present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Napieralski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm sorry, I can't hear you... But I have a card. [[Voice from the room: Now, now.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, there was a technical problem. Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask a question. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Pekkis. I wanted to ask, Mr Senator, why it was not asked to express an opinion on this bill, e.g. Energy Regulatory Office? Why wasn't the opinion of the Polish Chamber of Commerce for Renewable and Distributed Energy requested?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u105	Mr. Ambassador, I have great respect for you, but... [[Senator.]] [[Mr. Senator.]] Excuse me. ... Mr. Senator, but you know what my role is now. I'm now reporting what happened at the committee meeting. The question is, why hasn't something been done... It was simply not the subject of the committee. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office was present at the meeting of our committee and spoke. I mean, it's not true... And that's a corrigendum, because here's the rapporteur's colleague... Don't blame me, but as an energy engineer, as an energy doctor... Well, if you were a freshman, you'd fail the exam by saying the things you just said. You've messed it up, and I have to correct it, because that's what the gravity of this place requires, this room. A few very important issues. First of all, you said it could be that renewable energy would stop... [[But I'm sorry, it's not polemic. The question has been asked.]] [[There was a question just now. You're gonna get a chance to talk to me...]] If you were a fellow senator... [[Please... please, please.]] ...let me finish some... [[Quiet, please.]] ...I would like to say something as part of the report. [[Please answer Senator Napieralski's question, not what you think of Mr Augustine. We're gonna hear that, too.]] [[He answers the question.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Mr. Senator, you're known for a lot of impulsive speeches... [[Mr. Senator, don't comment, don't comment. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski asked a question and got an answer to that question. But I understand that the senator has something else to add in general. Yes? That's in a few sentences, please.]] It's about correcting my predecessor's statement. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're talking about energy, especially wind energy... [[Mrs. Marshal, we have the answers to your questions now. Mr. Senator, your opinion and corrigendum are of course very important, but this is what I'm asking for in the course of the discussion... and now I'm asking for an answer.]] [[Mr. Senator, but the Senator rapporteur...]] [[You're preventing an answer. What's up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u106	Mr. Senator, the Senator rapporteur... It's not like I never forbid the senators from speaking freely. I don't want to be here either. [[Mrs. Marshal, then I will resign from the correction. In my time, I will answer that question...]] Good. [[...I will present arguments, very factual, substantive, not referring to emotions and some absolutely and undoubtedly...]] Okay, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u107	Thank you. I hope I don't have an adventure of not answering, as he pointed out. - Maybe it's wrong. Mr. Senator Augustine. I'll ask you two questions. The first question is whether a committee meeting considered the adverse effects of the previous amendment of the law which changed the system of taxation of the surface of wind energy equipment. And the other. Coming out even to keep the coal energy condition... Don't you think? Wasn't that discussed? In the absence of developing Polish energy, however, would it be necessary to make renewable energy an additional source of energy to complement energy? [[First...]] If you can't answer me, I'm handing you over to the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u109	Senator, in answer to the first question, I would like to say that this was not the subject, because it was genuinely not the discussion held yesterday. In your second question, you asked my opinion. Well, then. Okay, to be perfectly honest with you. My opinion was not discussed either, but if I may answer... [[Please.]] Would you mind if I answered to the senator now? Mr. Senator, the absolute figures say the thesis you put in the question isn't true. The absolute figures clearly say that we have a steady supply of a few percent over 5% of the energy generated in relation to the energy consumed. This is an obvious answer based on numbers. That's one thing. Second. If it were as you say it was, that energy, for example. wind or solar would be able to compensate for the energy shortages from coal combustion, it is likely that, as a nation quite silly, we would go in this direction. But if we open it... There are data on the Internet, graphs of current energy generation by the German economy. They're registering current power generation. If you look at the individual days of December 2013 and December 2015, you will discover that in December 2013 for 7 days, and in December 2015 for 5 days the wind did not blow and the sun did not shine. Therefore, would you decide on such stability in December? When this energy is needed for people, e.g. for heating in the case of which you do not have energy in the socket?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u110	Mrs Marshal, as regards the answer to the second question, could we ask, however, to answer... that the Senator rapporteur, the energy doctor, the words of an engineer not from energy, or is it true that we are bringing in huge amounts of energy in the form of 10 billion m3 of natural gas, perhaps now 3 billion m3 of liquid. And I think sometimes we also bring in electricity. How does that relate to your saying that we have too much energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u111	You wanted me to answer as a doctor, so as a doctor, I would tell you this: the gas imported is not energy, but fuel. No more answers. [[But that's energy.]] As a doctor of technical sciences, I guarantee you it's fuel, not energy. [[Okay.]] Not much, I'll tell you that 1/3 of this fuel is not processed to obtain energy, but to obtain e.g. artificial fertilisers. And also, as a doctor... So this is where we're going with energy. It could be fuel, you're right. If we put it in the oven and burn it and get the energy back, it'll be fuel, but in this case it's not fuel. The answer to question two. Is the truth... We sell energy abroad, we save the German people from problems, selling energy to them. But we also buy energy, for example. We have bilateral agreements with Lithuania, but these are not huge quantities... Technically, you'd have to ask me about the number of gigawatts. If I could keep this information up to date, I'd tell you. As far as I'm concerned, these quantities are residual in relation to what we have in the country. [[Thank you. I'm the only one buying, like a few million users, gas energy, not energy from surplus Polish energy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you will be free to speak during the discussion. And now you ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u113	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the rapporteur is from energy. I often argue with a young man on the committee, but... my question is very specific: who created this bill and what specific experts prepared it? Please state their names. Because it's not a secret, is it, Senator? I'm always afraid of the way Members prepare it. Then we have some problems, we both know what they are. Second question. Who do you think is going to be the beneficiary of this bill? My third question is: what impact will this law have on companies of the Treasury and private investors? And a last-minute question. This project I think we'll agree here. It changes the rules of the game during this game. Last year, when, as I recall, my very good amendments were slightly lost, the Sejm adopted a law on amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, which meant blocking civic energy, in other words, Mr Senator, blocking Poles' ability to invest in their own energy sources, e.g. on the roofs of their own houses or simply on their own properties. And we know what this bill has brought us. And today we're changing these rules again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u114	Okay, thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u115	I'm answering the first question. It was the parliamentary presentation, it was the group of Members who submitted this proposal. Who specifically participated in the writing... The meeting was attended by a representative of this group of Members and he was not asked at the committee meeting. I'm answering question two. This was about which of the large state-owned companies will be the beneficiary? [[Yes.]] The beneficiary of this will be the final recipient, the beneficiaries will be the citizens of the Republic of Poland, because... And here, in order to clarify this, I have to disprove a certain thesis already made here by my colleague, the second rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, this thesis was based, among others. More or less in such a way that energy from renewable energy sources can become inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, this energy has been inefficient since the beginning of its production. I mean, this energy doesn't have a complete balance in the economy. This energy is profitable for manufacturers only because it is very deeply subsidised, subsidised at the expense of the remaining energy sold to beneficiaries, i.e. Poles. And, therefore, to the sale price of this, in quotes, dirty, as you say. We add another percentage of coal energy. I'm about to present in my speech how others do it and where they went. So we add a certain percentage. You're all paying for trying. Because these are attempts, so far not a very successful implementation of the European Union's policy within the framework of renewable energy sources to Polish energy. That's the answer to question two. So the beneficiary will be a Pole. This is the person who buys the energy, the final recipient. These recipients will be the biggest beneficiaries. This, of course, disproves the thesis that has just been said here that the price of energy will increase. It's not gonna grow. The point is that this amendment will not increase the energy price for the final consumer. That's the key. for this change, this much-needed change, Senator, this change... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I didn't discuss it with you during your speech, so please don't... [[You're addressing me, so I'm answering.]] I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the senator... what makes you think I'm talking to you? There's a senator behind you, too. And that is the subject of this change. So it's about taking care of the final recipient, who just won't get any higher. It's an up-to-date correction, a very unhealthy situation where the certificate of origin... This is one of the forms of renewable energy subsidies. But it cannot be that the manufacturer, at the expense of the rest of society, will have long, long-term influence, no matter what happens around. It must be regulated on an ongoing basis, it must be regulated by the market. For market purposes, the stock exchange was established and these certificates were to be exchanged on the stock exchange. But it doesn't work at all, it's fiction. And that's why it has to be changed, because of that. To answer the question... Mr. Senator, can you I'm sorry. Do you want to remind me of the fourth question? [[You're welcome. What impact will this law have on State Treasury companies and private investors?]] That was the third one. Fourth question I can already remember that the law is being introduced during the year. That's because the stock market price... Do you remember the average monthly price for the certificate of origin? That was 35 zlotys, right? And that was the stock price after the increase, 35 PLN. And what is the fixed, rigid price for this certificate that we buy to avoid holding a certificate of origin? That's 300 PLN and 3 gr. This gigantic artificial discrepancy between these amounts is precisely the reason for this change... [[But, Senator, I didn't say anything...]] ...in the course of the year. [[I didn't say anything about dirty coal, it doesn't...]] No, no. This is one of the terms used by the senators. And it's in the protocol, and I've been looking at it. During the implementation of the previous Renewable Energy Act. I'm not suggesting you said that. I didn't say that. If that's what you think, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u116	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Senator, I would very much like to ask for a precise report from the committee's meeting, namely to pass on what the President of the Energy Regulatory Office said during the meeting, which he expressed on this bill. Use your time on this. I wanted to ask that question to the president of the URE, but he seems to be absent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u118	He's here. He's here. [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] I have a favor to ask, Mrs. Marshal. Because I don't memorize the speeches of individual presidents during the night... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[But you're the rapporteur.]] [[But, Senator, you're the president, and I think you can... as well as Minister...]] But there's also protocol, if necessary, I can read it. I'd just like to ask you to present the minutes. Then I'll read the speech. If that's the senator's will, then I can file... I'd just have to ask for a half-hour break, then. And I'm gonna get ready for this speech. If that's the will, then... But I'm gonna take a half-hour break, and I'm gonna... [[I'm sorry, I didn't see the president. I'll ask the president myself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u119	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have the following questions. Firstly, how much of this regulation will contribute to achieving the objectives of the climate and energy package? Isn't there a danger? What's it gonna take to get us there? That's the first question. Second: what percentage of electricity is produced today from renewable sources? And how this regulation will affect the generation of energy from renewable sources. Will it increase, decrease, will it constans? And why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u121	The answer to the first question: in terms of the most frequently quoted wind energy here, we are now at the implementation stage of 2020, i.e. we are ahead of implementation by 2 years. That's what wind energy is all about. So we're two years ahead of schedule, and we have a very safe margin. The answer to question two: this was not the subject of the committee's work and this number did not fall. But there's a minister present who might know the answer, and if he doesn't, he'll probably give it in writing. I'm gonna memorize these numbers... I don't know the number you're asking about right now. I know we have to do 15% by 2020. But I don't have exact calculations. [[May I ask, Mrs. Marshal?]] [[Yes, please.]] [[Mr. Senator, I understand that we are achieving this 20% share of renewable energy from only the wind, already for 2020 -- yes?]] I don't understand... I don't know where you got that 20%. Where'd you get 20%? ? [[From the package...]] The package obliges Poland to 15%. [[I'm guessing we're up to 15% from the wind today, right?]] Part of the generation of energy from renewable sources, from the wind part was made up to a year... [[But I'm asking in general. The others, too?]] [[In general... the senator said he didn't know those numbers. You'll be able to ask...]] [[But in general, I'm asking if any of the others...]] [[In general, the senator said he didn't know these numbers. You'll be able to ask the Minister, Senator.]] The Minister is here. The Minister will be able to give such an answer. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u122	Senator Robert Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u123	Thank you. Senator, rapporteur, is the truth? At the meeting of the Sejm Board, such an inquiry was made. That one of the employees or people close to the company of the State Treasury, the Polish Energy Group, participated in the writing of this law? That's my first question. And second question. How can one explain the fact that from a few days ago, since this issue appeared on the Polish Stock Exchange, companies such as Tauron, PGE, and the most energy are gaining very much on their merits, while private companies or mostly private companies I'm not going to replace them. They're losing a lot of money? Is there any logic in this? Do you understand anything about it if it's such a good bill? [[The answer to the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u124	Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u125	The answer to question one... That's more of a question for the special forces. I don't know if there's a representative here. That could determine how the law was written. I told you, I answered the question... Personally, I'm not familiar with the people who wrote the bill. The answer to question two. You mean Energ's company? [[The stock market.]] Because you were talking about Energy... Is this about the one whose CEO is Daniel Obajtek? [[Yes.]] This is Energa's company. President Daniel Obajtek spoke on the subject. If I have my time in the debate, I'll read... This wasn't the subject of a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u126	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. First, I'd like to say I'm not a doctor, but I'll ask you a question. You said, if I understood correctly, that we have 5% in Poland. excess of energy. Yes? [[More.]] More? [[Yeah, over 5%.]] It should be understood that this is a supply in case of emergency. At the same time... [[This is the supply that...]] I'm just asking. [[Good.]] At the same time, we have no idea from which sources this energy comes. Or do we? I don't know. [[We do.]] We do. So the first question is, what is this supply coming from? [[With the power installed in the power blocks.]] In the blocks... [[Yeah, energy.]] [[Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Please don't have a conversation, a discussion. Please ask the senator a question, and the senator will then give me an answer when I give the floor.]] I understand, Mrs. Marshal. I just wanted to understand well to ask further questions. If we have an excess of that energy, more than 5%. ... [[Voice from the room: Powers.]] ...power, I'm asking you why there's still so much pressure to reduce energy from renewable sources and then pack it into power plants that burn coal. [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] Even if that is the case, our idea should be to increase the share of renewable energy in the global supply of this energy. The European Union requires this, and as a light society, we want to do this magical 15%. ... From information I don't know if the good news is that we have about 8% at the moment. installed energy from renewable sources. Who does all this serve? Are only the companies of the Treasury that will not want to use the word common to put all their income into this great, dirty, black energy? Can we not allow entrepreneurs who produce energy and who believe in our country to take credit and install windmills or other energy sources... They're producing this energy and waiting for 10, 15 years to pay back the cost of this investment. On the one hand, we charge everything into energy, name it, state, and on the other hand we deprive some of our producers of income and ability to function. This is not a country which treats all economic operators equally, and this is difficult to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u128	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u129	There were some questions. I'll try to respond quickly. First of all, you used a great word: "globally." Well, globally, for example. PV panels are not produced in Europe, but in China. I don't know if you know that the energy we need to produce photovoltaic panels, quite primitive devices today, exceeds the energy we're getting from these panels. In other words, they are made somewhere, but we don't know where, somewhere in faraway China, and that's where the poisoning of society occurs. Not much of that, photovoltaic panels are made using so-called "voltaic panels." heavy metals, like cadmium, lead, mercury. We may think there's no problem, but globally, ma'am, this problem is, only that it's in China. So we can think that we here in Europe are clean because the problem is solved by the Chinese and let them poison themselves because we want to be clean. But it's not fair. Because if we're talking about global responsibility, The world, as a man It is known that China is part of a global... part of the Earth and those people also have the right to a clean life. Not just Europeans at the expense of the rest of the world. Okay, we can assume that as Europe we are an empire, but I think it will be the deep selfish thinking of Europeans. But that's my opinion. And if we say... You asked why we had reserves to keep in coal. The reasons are 2 and are trivial. Firstly, coal is a fuel that is stable and which we have as a country, we have its resources on our territory. Secondly, it is currently the cheapest form of energy production on the European continent. Cheapest, no cheaper. [[We don't have the cheapest energy.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll be right back with the data on what's called. Green Germany, who preach all over and towards the green energy culture, devastates its natural environment by producing, based on brown coal energy. You can have a good time, so I'll give it to you right away, and I'll answer your question, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, on a European scale, Germany is responsible for 48.2% EU brown coal extraction. This is the most unwanted form. In Poland there are only 16.3% all EU extraction. And here's the answer to which direction we want to go. [[...Stone coal.]] Brown coal. This is Bełchatów. [[We're supposed to have 15%.]] The Germans who preach everywhere and before... Besides, by building such a green space, they have no scruples to produce the so-called energy. the energy base. And now the second answer, to the question of why it is impossible to go only into this green energy at the moment available to technologies. Because it doesn't give the basis, it doesn't give the energy when the energy is needed. It gives energy when either the sun shines during the day... But not always, because, believe me, you don't have to believe me, look at the charts: there are days when the sun shines behind the clouds and solar energy is zero. Just like there are days when the wind just doesn't blow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you as Senator Rapporteur. During the committee's work, were you interested in asking whether this law was consulted with the Energy Regulatory Office and the Polish Chamber of Economics of Renewable and Distributed Energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u132	I do not know the representation of this Polish Chamber. But, as I said, at the meeting of the Joint Senate Committees, there was a representative... you were the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, present here today in the Chamber, and you said your opinion. [[But...]] Have I considered the question? Let me tell you a secret: I have not considered the task of this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u134	Senator rapporteur, I think I've just prepared this for myself before, and I'm going to sort of continue what you've touched. Well, I'm not in favour of renewable energy, and that's for such a simple reason that... About 4 years ago there was a conference here in the Senate, at which one of the professors from Krakow said that no one had gotten close yet. to ensure that the costs of energy from renewable sources are lower than two and a half times the costs of energy from the traditional coal combustion method. Of course, I like the windmills very much when you drive by them, you can see how they wave so nicely... But I'm also driving by the field where the used biomass is exported. I turn off the ventilation in the car. You have to remember that. So that you can have different views on it. My question is basically about the following issues. Well, we are dealing with a huge concentration, such as territorial monopolization, in terms of energy production, I mean Silesia. Meanwhile, the cheapest sources to obtain this energy are located in Lublin. About a week or two ago, when there was also a talk about energy, I asked one of the ministers here whether the construction of a power plant was planned for the right of the Vistula. The answer was no. And I think that would really reduce the cost of power generation. And here's my question: can we still hope that we will think about generating electricity not monopolisticly, not territorially, just so that we have a certain distribution of sources of generation of this energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Would you like to comment on that statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u136	Mr. Senator, I am forced, despite your great sympathy, to answer, as I told my predecessors, that this was not the subject of our committee's work at yesterday's sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you once again... we will have a debate in a moment and everyone will be able to comment on this subject, but I will remind you that this is not a law that completely changes the existing state, this is a law amending one of the forms of subsidies for producers. Donation. Because it's a grant. It's about one of the forms, it's about changing the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. You quoted that phrase... Of course, this issue was not widely discussed at the committee meeting, but you, here at the Senate sitting, quoted this phrase: it will gain some energy giants, the rest will lose. I have a question about who's gonna lose exactly how much and who's gonna gain, and on what basis are you basing your thesis. Do you have such calculations? That's one question, Mr. Senator. And two: how do you understand the opposition that you have spoken very strongly about here, the traditional energy lobby? Who do you think is a lobbyist or who's lobbying for traditional energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u139	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u140	I answer the first question: it is not true that this issue has not been discussed by the committee. About the fact that entrepreneurs concentrated in the Polish Chamber of Economics of Renewable and Distributed Energy in a very large number I don't mean to overreact, but it looks like there's even more than 1,000 companies out there. They're gonna lose, they're gonna lose, they're gonna lose, they're gonna You were in the middle of this meeting, so you should hear this. The same as the position of the Polish Wind Energy Association, where there was talk of real losses for entities concentrated in this association. And you have probably heard the President of the Polish Bank Association, who spoke about the real risk of insolvency of many companies who have taken loans for their investments on the basis of the existing regulations, hoping for this level of support from the state for the development of renewable energy. So, of course, yes, it was mentioned at the committee meeting, there were numbers, and there was a great deal of concern. And when you ask me who I consider to be a lobbyist in the context of this bill... I told you, big energy companies that could benefit from a reduction in the replacement fee. Because they generally, like most, spoke about it by the Minister They avoid taking part in the redemption of certificates through the stock exchange, and, without worrying about it, they are based on the above-mentioned fee. If she is reduced from 300 PLN to 56 PLN, then... In the end, it's easy to calculate that it's quite a difference. In any case, the biggest players will benefit from this, thanks to the reduction of this fee. At least that's how I understood the statements of the social partners. Unlike your senator, I am not a doctor of energy, but I have tried to listen carefully to those who are also in the industry and absolutely disagree with your arguments. If you could have referred to this case... Did you want to convince us that Polish coal-based energy is the cheapest in Europe and that we pay the least? Were you trying to convince us that everything was included in this energy price, including what we pay for mining pensions, environmental rehabilitation, etc.? Have you counted all these costs if you want to count all the costs the other way? Honesty, Mr. Senator, would require you to talk about total costs. Yes, you're right, environmental protection also applies, but let's count both ways, not in one way, just like you did. The European Union finally takes note of this. He doesn't want to upset anyone about freezing his ears off. Experts from 20 countries are not foolish people who want to harm Europeans. And Dr. Pekkis is probably not an oracle in these matters. Perhaps it would be worth reading the sources of this law, including scientific sources, because then perhaps your voice would be more balanced, Mr. Senator. After all, this is not the point of the amendments which I presented in order not to take into account the Ministry's arguments that the situation in this area, which is the subject of the law, needs to be improved. Yes, yes, only that it would be better for me to draw up rules that would urge them to solve the stock market because that's what the minister complained about. Instead of introducing incentives that may improve the situation to some extent, insufficient and unsatisfactory, unfortunately, as the partners say, the players present there, or actually their representatives, will be very damaging to the industry in a situation where we are only halfway to these standards, these 15% That's what it's all about. I think we need to find a compromise. If you do not want this delay, this reflection, then support the amendments that are precisely such a compromise. They maintain the profitability of the industry, do not expose us to the effects of some retortion by the European Union and at the same time move towards the changes that the Ministry wants to introduce. It is not that we stand on opposite sides of the barricade and some say yes and others say no. We say that the situation is not healthy and that it needs to be improved, but either through an in-depth reflection and a change of method, which would take time. In fact, the time to adopt a new law would probably be sufficient either by relaxing these provisions and adopting the amendments that we are proposing. It really doesn't have to be, Senator, so black and white. And I would also like to say very clearly that no one is questioning that today our energy base is and for many years will remain coal energy. It's out of the question, out of the question. The point is whether we are taking EU commitments seriously and moving in the right direction, or we are doing everything in order not to follow the recommendations that the European Union has accepted in our agreement, with our participation. Because it's not like it was accepted against us, and I'm not gonna bring up the president's name anymore, which is exactly what he agreed to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u141	Thank you very much. Is there anything the senator would like to add on this matter? [[No. It was for the senator...]] It's okay. Mr. Senator, as if he was referring to Senator Pekkis' statement. [[There was an attempt to hurt me, but it doesn't work, so I won't add anything. Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pakkis. Because you were kind to say that you do not know the data on how the share of renewable energy will evolve in the coming years, but on the other hand, in answer to my colleague Senator Komarnicki's question, you said that maintaining the status quo will lead to oversupply of renewable energy. On what grounds So... what do you think are the reasons for the fact that keeping the regulations in its current form will lead to overproduction, oversupply of energy produced from RES? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u143	Mr. Senator, I was talking about reducing the oversupply of certificates on the market, not energy, certificates. This is one of the forms of aid. One of the new forms, which in the meantime, under the rule of law and justice, is the auction, will soon be the third auction. This is another form of help. So I was talking about oversupply, I'll repeat, certificates. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u145	Senator, tell me if you can tell me, of course, how many energy companies have invested in coal mines. And isn't that so... Anyway, that's the first question. Two. And isn't it like that? Because, of course, this law is the support of energy companies that because energy companies have been forced to invest several billion PLN in unprofitable mines, do they not have the possibility to invest in new energy technologies for burning coal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u146	Mr. Marshal, to be perfectly honest, this was not the subject, it was not really the subject of a committee meeting. But if I can give my opinion in one sentence... [[I'll ask the Minister, of course.]] Yeah, yeah. That is not the purpose of this amendment. The aim of this amendment is e.g. launch of market mechanisms. Today 97% certificates, on the relevant date, are sold outside the stock exchange. And that's what this is all about, to get market mechanisms going. It's one of the reasons to do it, but it's not the only one. As I said, there are even these auctions, a third auction of renewable energy sources is about to be launched. These are the next milestones, contrary to those claims that have been made to develop this industry rationally, in a rational way, not at the expense of the rest of society.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u148	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, two questions. In answer to the questions that came from the room here, you said that this is a very important, very important bill. You also referred to energy prices, which will really be important for every Pole and Polish woman. So my question is this: don't you think that such an important bill, which you are talking about, should not be consulted with public authorities and important chambers of commerce, which should refer to it, consult it or express their opinion? Because in answer to my question, you also said that you weren't going to ask. And the second question is, do you think that, in your knowledge, during your work on this bill... Will this bill not lead to the collapse of parts of wind farms in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u149	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u150	To answer the first question, I will read the opinion for the third time, because part of the opinion was submitted to the High Senate for a desk, to the desk of the committee. That was four opinions. But there are opinions, because, of course, we're not closed to the outside world... We, from Law and Justice, are open to him. I therefore took note of the opinion of the President of the Board of Energa SA Daniela Obajtka. I'll read it if you don't know it, Senator. I am pleased that the parliamentarians have noticed the shortcomings in the energy regulations and that the amended amendment has corrected what had to be changed a long time ago. The solutions adopted are favourable and will allow for an increase in the level of investment for the benefit of shareholders. Our customers can also be calm, these regulations will not affect the price, so they should feel safe. Incorrectities in the legal regulations for green certificates have been signalled since the beginning of my arrangement in the Energa Group. I am surprised that for many years nothing has been done to solve growing, even pathological, problems with green certificates. This is the answer to your question about the CEOs of large companies. This is Energa S.A. Group, the third energy company, serving 24% the market. Should I give you more data or...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u151	No, thank you very much. That's an interesting opinion from the president. I respect the president. He worked at a big government agency, now he's in a big company. That's important information for me. But I asked you one more question. about the large chambers of commerce, about the environment that is involved, as well as about the Energy Regulatory Office, which is... [[He hasn't talked about it yet...]] ...a state institution, important and important in this process. [[Of course it is.]] Don't you think that such an opinion or such consultation before the bill is filed... According to your parliamentary experience. Shouldn't it be obtained before the whole legislative process? And that was my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u152	Yes, she was, Mr. Senator. After all, 4 opinions were submitted to the meeting yesterday, including the opinion of a very important investor in this market, the Union of Polish Banks. In fact, the amendments contained in this opinion were used precisely, i.e. they were taken over by the senators presenting the minority proposal. These are exactly the amendments proposed by the Polish Bank Association. So if we're talking about lobbying, this is where I'd be looking for relationships. Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I correct this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u154	I'll straighten it out now. First of all, I wasn't talking about lobbying, Mr. Senator. [[No, no, you're not. Earlier, the rapporteur.]] But I asked the question, and I want it to be understood. I was very pleased with the opinion you presented, the president of one of the big companies. This is very important information for me. But I'm asking you one more time because you're running away from a precise answer. I ask you whether, as a parliamentarian to you, it should not happen that the bill that affects Parliament before it enters... And we've had a lot of cases here. Also with regard to energy issues, such errors have arisen. Isn't that supposed to be before the bill comes in? So all the consultations shouldn't have taken place sooner than at the committee meeting? Because you're pleading that there'll be minority proposals. But we know exactly Unless you say it's gonna be different. The minority's conclusions will be lost. So it's a little ineffective.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u155	Good. Thank you. Does the senator have anything else to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u156	Senator, for the fourth time, you're asking me the exact same question in a slightly different form. I will answer again: really at yesterday's meeting I can follow the protocol, follow the recordings, the committee did not deal with what Grzegorz Pekkis thought, because I spoke very briefly. Yesterday, I focused on recording what the committee does. And the committee really didn't do what I thought. You're also a regulator... excuse me, you're the President of the Energy Regulatory Office... the President of the Energy Regulatory Office was at the committee meeting and he spoke. There were four written opinions and others that we knew about from the media. It seems to me that a more complementary opinion in total such a small change, but a very important change is hard to imagine. [[Thank you...]] I remember because I followed it in the previous parliamentary term. I can quote, only for a moment will I leave, while the SLD laws went without any amendments, without consultation. I remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u157	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Przemysław Terminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. to both rapporteurs, I think. [[Senators.]] The first question is the following. I received such an opinion from the Polish Wind Energy Association, in which they show that the entry into force of the law will cause huge losses for them. I mean, I would like to ask the rapporteurs what is the mechanism behind these losses, because today the substitute fee is PLN 300.03 and the transactions are actually carried out on the market at significantly lower prices. It's about 25% of this value. And now the law that defines 125% will enter into force. at the average annual prices of the previous year. That's how we're gonna settle this. I would like to ask what is the mechanism behind this loss. Why do they say they're gonna suffer any additional, extraordinary losses? I understand that these will be losses in relation to those today's 25%, which are already received as part of the buy-back of certificates, these green certificates. That's the first question. And the second question is addressed only to Senator Pekkis: does this law, precisely because of the changes we are discussing, require notification in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u159	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u160	With regard to these 2 amounts that have been reported, I have the impression that 2 issues are mixed. The issue of the so-called issue. the certificate of origin, which belongs to manufacturers who receive it from the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for the production of 1 MWh, is one thing. We treat it like it's one document. And if you don't have or get a document like that, you'll have to pay a replacement fee. And it's something else. This 300 PLN 3 gr is a substitute fee. You can contract a function for many years ahead of time... Well, you can arrange outside the market, outside the stock market, and contract for rigidly certain forms of functioning on the market between a manufacturer who has the privilege of selling property rights because of the fact that he produces energy, in quotes, clean, and the recipient who sells energy to us and who has an obligation to prove the right amount of property rights to prove that he is co-generating clean energy. And these are two divergent... Otherwise: they are convergent, but I would not mix the price of these 2 documents. [[Mr. Senator, I understand. I am just asking what is the mechanism of these additional losses in relation to the current legal situation, which they refer to...]] I am already answering your question: of course, loss is a relative concept and depends on previous profits, revenues. How much revenue was there, I don't know. Perhaps in view of the powerful revenues that were earlier, now there is a loss recorded. Well, that's possible to me, which doesn't mean the balance sheet is negative. That obviously doesn't mean that. Well, that's basic. That's how I understand it, but maybe I'm wrong. Besides, the president of the association you're talking about was present in the courtroom. I know and talked to your President, but the President did not present these losses at the time of the committee's deliberations, nor their size, nor what they resulted from. [[Can I answer that question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u161	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u162	Mr. Senator, of course it's a pretty complicated mechanism. As a non-energy man, I understand him that way. In general, we touch the essence of the problem here, that only a small part of companies use the path that Senator Pekkis was talking about, i.e. through the stock exchange, certificates awarded for the production of energy are depreciated. And that's the problem. It's trying to change, so there's more. The majority of companies use the latter path, i.e. with a substitute fee, because this is, as I understood from the statements at the committee meeting, a simpler method. It was even said that you were simply making a transfer from your account to your account and that it was over. It's easy. And since the amount of this fee decreases from PLN 300 to PLN 56, there is a very serious difference. And it causes that all these calculations, also included in the contracts, after the entry into force of this law will be obsolete. If you don't mind, I will also refer to the other issue concerning possible violations of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The elements of support for renewable energy in this section, which relates to the system of certificates of origin, were approved by the European Commission in its Decision of 2 August 2016, which declared the scheme compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article. 107. 3 lit. c Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the same time, the decision states that if I am to believe the documents which have been submitted to me, that any changes to these aid measures require notification to the European Commission. So that the adoption and implementation of such a change without notification, in the opinion of many speakers and according to the documents which have been provided to the members of the committee, threatens the obligation to repay the support received, as unlawful State aid, together with interest. Of course, this applies to certain entities, but it is expected that these entities will demand compensation from the State Treasury. Is it possible or not? Well, here is an example of France where such penalties have been imposed. It was also believed that this was outside European jurisdiction, and then it turned out that the decision contained a reservation that had to be taken seriously into account. That's my knowledge. My conviction is that it's all dangerous. We're taking the path that others have already taken, and it's cost them a little. We should be careful here, and in any case, we should consider this matter thoroughly. There wasn't time. To my doubts, the President briefly replied that this is not the subject of European regulation and that we are not entering any conflict here. No, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u163	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Pekkis. You just made me happy. If I understand correctly, you will support the amendments we tabled yesterday. That's how I understood your statement. It is, of course, about the amendments of minorities. [[You misunderstood me.]] That's too bad. I was happy for a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u165	That was a question, wasn't it? Good. Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u166	Question for Senator Pekkis. I hope I get an answer this time. Mr. Senator, you said something to me that moved me, that is that... the profits and losses are accounted for in the numbers appointed to express production. And you said it depends on the size of the previous period. Well, I understand it can be given as a percentage, but it's kind of a later result. Did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u167	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u168	Mr. Senator, this really wasn't the subject of the committee's work. I said... [[Does anyone else want to ask...]] I'm sorry. I'd like to... Mr. Senator, I'm being questioned, and I'm a little subject to this question, because I don't want you to... I have some knowledge, and I want to share it with you. I don't want to leave any doubt and make it seem like I'm pushing the opposition. This debate is therefore 1 hour and 15 minutes long. But indeed, many of the issues that the honourable senators raised were not the subject of the committee's work. [[Good.]] At the committee meeting, there was a country present who is now asking. That's all the more interesting to me. They were present yesterday, asked questions and finally took over the amendments of the Polish Bank Association, which is a little bit... If they show such an initiative in this respect, they could have prepared their amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u169	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u170	I have a question for Senator Augustine. I'd like to bring up the subject of notification, Senator. This submission is a parliamentary project and if it requires notification at the level of the European Union... My first question to you is this: shouldn't it, however, be more strongly consulted with the government and shouldn't it be consulted with the European Union in advance? That's the first thing. The second thing is this. In some ways, the Act creates both beneficiaries and those who will be harmed. You said that when it turns out that a notification was needed, public aid would have to be reimbursed. I'm the only one who's gonna ask who's gonna be paying back the public aid. Because in the light of this law, as I understand it, you can say, companies that produce energy will be made, let's call it, conventional, versus companies that produce clean energy. And now... Because it's hard for me to point out as if the entity that could be the subject of this notification, because this notification would have to be limited... Well, to reduce the weight? To reduce the amount of public aid? 'Cause I think that's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u171	If I read these documents correctly, they show that we are violating not only this decision, but also the EU Energy Charter. Of course, in the case of unjustified state aid, which could be regarded as being received under the scheme after the amendment we are discussing, this reimbursement obligation would apply to those who received the aid. But they could and would certainly do so to the State Treasury with damages claims if they suffered a loss. And now, which of the market participants would suffer the greatest loss as a result of this change... Well, that's... I'm really not qualified to answer that question, but that's how I understand it. So don't... There is some point in what the Minister says, that of course there is no such right, such a directive, directly on which there would be an infringement here. But there's a decision that was made directly on the basis of the treaty, and it's in it. In my knowledge, the indication that changing the rules of the game requires notification to the European Commission. And I am not particularly surprised because this concerns a serious business market. As we know, a change in the rules in this area, especially one that could affect equal competition And here it was indicated that this could be the case. It was usually required to be notified. It seems to me, therefore, that in addition to the energy regulations, there are provisions on equal competition, and I give faith to these entities, the Union of Polish Banks and the Polish Chamber of Commerce for Renewable and Distributed Energy, which point to such risks in this regard. This is one of the reasons why we think it would be worthwhile for us to refrain from the final decision on this amendment at this moment, to wait until the big amendment that was announced at the committee meeting by the Minister, to re-examine this matter in a normal government procedure, where there would be no suspicion that someone could take part, someone could not, who really prepared it, etc... All this would be clear, transparent and we would also be sure that it is in line with EU rules that we are in no danger of doing so. It seems to me that such a proposal or such a motive, one of the motives for which we believe that we should not decide at the moment, even though we understand that there is a problem to be dealt with, seems rational. It is not that, so to speak, resistance to resistance, but a meaningful suggestion of the opposition, how to do so, to achieve goals that seem right, but in a way that is safe for us, consumers, for companies participating in the market, for Poland, both in terms of achieving energy policy objectives and in terms of implementing agreements with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u173	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority proposal. I would ask you to explain to me, as a final consumer of electricity, but also for example. electricity-intensive entrepreneurs, which have an impact on the cost of production... Will your amendment, the first amendment, which sets the minimum replacement fee, affect the increase in final electricity prices or the reduction in electricity prices? Will the average citizen, as a result of your amendment, pay more or less for electricity, or at least can he pay more or less?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u174	Yeah, I get it. The replacement fee is paid by those who do not participate in the stock market, if I understand the functioning of this market well, and this is the majority of renewable energy producers. If the public aid is much smaller, i.e. it will not amount to PLN 300, only PLN 56, then these companies... Well, how are they gonna make it up to themselves to get their payback back? Probably a higher price then. Anyway, that's how I understand the rules. And there is also the question that we would put Poland at risk for possible revolutions from the European Union, i.e. It would've cost you. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you another question...]] In any case, everything that increases the cost of companies reflects the price of energy, because it has to project. [[I'm sorry, but I'm not interested in heights and declines...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u175	Please, the senator wants to ask you a question. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal...]] Please. [[That's what you asked, so...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u176	I have little interest in the growth and decline of the profits of those who produce electricity. They'll be fine. I am interested in what affects the average citizen and the average manufacturer who uses electricity. I'd ask a representative to answer that question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u177	In that case, I can only say, Mr Senator, that the question of the fact that the table justifying this project, attached to the submission of the Sejm, significantly understated this impact on the final price of energy, you raised the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, so I would ask if I could redirect this question to him. He probably corrected all these data and knows exactly what is the mechanism behind the difference between these prices. [[I would also ask a representative of the majority to respond.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u178	It is not exactly what the minority representative said, and that is because the price is not free. In other words, the Senators, the prices are being regulated by the regulator, the Energy Regulatory Office. And therefore it is not possible to raise the price, because that is what the regulator decides. But consent, yes, the increase in additional charges has a direct impact on the increase in the price for the final customer, of course if the company that generates energy And she doesn't just have to deal with it. He can't compensate for it with anything else. That's the answer to the first question. And then there was the second question... Oh, there was one more inaccuracies. It is not so sadly that those who do not operate on the market must operate on the basis of substitution fees, because they have been given one more technical option: they can not operate directly on the stock exchange, they can operate outside the stock exchange, but with certificates of origin. It's another complication that's awfully confusing and already messed up situation. And so, unfortunately... In this way, we can see how complex mechanisms work here and how careful we need to be... And at the same time, with the knowledge that the Ministry has... [[That's what we're calling for.]] ...and the regulator... And that is the key to getting away from this rigid amount of PLN 300,03. [[56 is awful too...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, right? Please, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, but in fact not only as the rapporteur of the minority... more as a moving amendment. Specifically, I am referring to the amendments proposed by the Polish Bank Association. Mr Senator, the Union of Polish Banks has asked for its position on the proposed amendments to the Act. I have a question. Don't you think the senator... In the view of you as the receiving senator who co-accepts these amendments, are these activities not of a nature, can you say, lobbying? I'll explain what's going on. Don't you think, Mr Senator, that the amendments tabled by the Polish Bank Association and adopted by the opposition senators are designed to safeguard the interests of banks, Western banks, western capital, which were crediting investments in RES by a wide stream? These investments were very profitable, as Senator Pekkis pointed out, they were very profitable. Now it may turn out that they will be less profitable. Therefore, Western banks, the western capital which granted loans to companies, companies operating on the Polish market, very often with the participation of western capital, simply fear that these loans will be able to recover. Because you are well aware, Mr. Senator, that such investments are not carried out for your funds, but for credits. Isn't it also that there was no underestimation of the risk in the case of banks providing such loans? Banks are obliged to estimate risks, including legal risks, and that is legal risks. Here we are dealing with legal risks, i.e. regulatory changes that could have a significant impact on the situation of the loans that these banks have provided. Answer me that question, isn't that a coincidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u181	No, I don't take it that way at all. Of course, since I am in the Senate, various types of actors attend committee meetings, make proposals for amendments and senators either take over them or not. And that's normal. I'm sure the senator's seen this many times before. So there's no irregularities here. By the way, at this stage of the procession it was not the amendments proposed by the Polish Bank Association, because these amendments were tabled during the work in the Sejm, the same amendments or similar ones, at least as regards substance. So that those submitted by the union of banks were corrected by our office and I took over them, as I have sometimes taken over the amendments proposed by many social partners. It seems to me that unless a group of senators or even one senator is convinced of the amendment, they are not in force or as if they do not enter the procession. In this case, it seemed to me, Mr. Senator, that we should not oppose 'Cause you raised a very important point. The interest of one group of market participants in the interests of the other group. I think we should look. ..and that's what the amendments are going to do. This solution, which will approximate the achievement of the objectives set by the Ministry and which supposedly, at least in part, can be implemented within the framework of this project and at the same time will not surprise the participants, a certain group of market participants, will not devastate it, but at the same time will not put them at risk. This proposal seems reasonable. And the fact that the banks... Not only that, Mr. Senator, because the Polish Bank Association was concentrating, as far as I know, all, also banks with majority state capital. So that's what this is about... President Pietraszkiewicz spoke on behalf of his members. It's hard for me to tell if it was just foreign capital banks. I don't know where the senator got that information, I don't have it, and I doubt that's the only group involved. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u182	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u183	If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal... Well, you've provoked me a little, Senator. Because I know perfectly well the procedure for taking over amendments at committee meetings by the senators. But the content of the amendment made or proposed by the notifiers should, so to speak, have some causal link. Someone, the Union of Polish Banks makes amendments to the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, if I'm not mistaken. Yes? Why does he bring it into this bill? There's probably always some justification, of course. However, I am surprised at the huge concern of the banks about RES market players. When it comes to the representation of banks by the President of the Polish Bank Association, the Polish Bank Association brings together most banks. Recently, for some time now Polish banks, with most of the Polish capital are after taking over from the Italians Pekao by a majority, but previously the western capital was prevailing and there is no doubt about it. Isn't the causal link, therefore, that these banks, mainly with western capital, were lending RES market entities, of which a significant part were also entities with foreign capital, and now may I say that there is a problem with the recovery, repayment of these loans due to changes resulting from the revision of the rules? But this is the legal risk of banks and banks should estimate the legal risk. It's kind of a little sidetrack, because there are less risks in this group, so to speak, severe for banks, at least the banks think so. However, I believe that it was underestimated at the time of granting the loan, because such risk analyses are carried out before the loan is granted. And it seems to me that thus such a position of the Union of Polish Banks, that indirectly the Union of Polish Banks is an interest in this matter, and in fact the entities that it brings together.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u184	Yes, of course the Polish Bank Association did not hide that he was interested in this law and therefore appeared there. He claimed that the adoption of these solutions could jeopardise the maintenance of at least minimum liquidity for companies that have committed to banks. But, Senator, we are on the economic committee and we should always care about the condition of Polish companies. So, if you'll excuse me, I'm actually seeing the need for us to listen to these voices if we're gonna do our part properly. If the legal risk you are talking about is so great that it threatens the stability of the market, then we in the economic committee should analyse such solutions at 2, 3, 4 meetings, literally looking at each record, with all possible calculations at our disposal. Before we make an optimal decision. Meanwhile, it took two days in the Seym, and we have it here. It's a good thing that even though the partners or stakeholders could have spoken, but saying that we've been thoroughly reorganized would be a big exaggeration. That's not true. Therefore, our proposal not to accept it now, to think about it, and if you think it is so urgent, it can accept a compromise proposal and we are putting it this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pakkis. Mr. Senator, the whole bill, as I see it, is because I listen to the debate, and I listen to the discussion. Today, the margin resulting from these various certification operations is on the side, so to speak, organic producers, and we're going to convert it to black energy, which is carbon energy. And I have a question for you. Because like you said, only 3% This type of operation today takes place through the stock exchange, which is 97% is based on contracts. In many cases these are long-term contracts, and the media reported some disputes between green energy producers and energy companies. Please tell me whether you have estimated the scale of potential cash flows between renewable energy and conventional energy and the mechanisms to force companies, this renewable energy to renegotiate contracts, because 97% As we know, it's in contracts between energy and energy. How can they be forced to apply these lower-value laws suddenly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u187	You can't force it, the more it is, as I said before, many forms that can be used. Because there is another form that I haven't talked about before, which means you can ignore all the forms that have been presented so far and submit to punishment. And therefore, what form the company, the manufacturer, will choose, is the question of his, the president, the board of directors, the supervisory board, the will. And here it is hard to say that someone can be forced to do something because we live in a free country, in a democratic country where market dependency is to function. That's all. That thesis you started at, Mr. Senator... I will read again the purpose of the Act so that we are clear: The aim of the proposed Act is to introduce a solution to facilitate the sustainable development of our country in the area of renewable energy sources by changing the way in which the unit replacement fee is calculated. That's the goal. We weren't trying to analyze the cash flows between the big... It wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pakkis. Because I feel that way, and I have a question about that, too... Don't you think that the government's recent action on the Renewable Energy Act is the fight against windmills? We already know from literature such a fight with windmills and we know what it all ends with. And my question is as if it were from your earlier statement in the context of what is happening with the production of renewable energy in Germany. I had a chance recently to be on a study trip in Bavaria, where 40% renewable energy is already consumed at the level of a particular district, and they have plans to make it up to 60% in 2025, and they are not afraid of those days when the wind is not blowing or if the sun is not shining. But don't you think this is the wrong direction? That's the first question. And the other. Has there been a discussion of a problem that is very pressing for local authorities, and whether you have any knowledge of this... Or, if so, when will there be further amendments to the law that will solve the problem of the tax charged by the municipalities, which still poses a serious problem in terms of wind power stations that stand in the areas of the municipalities? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u190	To answer the first question I will answer you with the words of Jakub Wiech's analysis, this is a very deep analysis, an analysis of the German market. The German market increased the capacity of wind units by 10% between 2015 and 2016. And the sun's about 2.5%. In 2016, 1% was generated from these sources. less electricity, and the weather was responsible. In other words, over the past six years, the Federal Republic of Germany has invested 6 billion dollars in wind and solar energy, not millions of euros. The result is this. And this is a further part of the analysis, supported by quotes from German source magazines, that Germany has a huge problem with carbon balance. Why? Because if they do from day to day And such a day has been recorded, because the forecasts are very favourable winds, reducing the efficiency of carbon blocks by 82%, there is no way that these blocks are able to withstand such regulation, there are no such blocks. There is also no way that no more poisonous substances would go into the atmosphere then than if these blocks produced energy as they would produce it, i.e. nominally, optimally for the environment, ideally. This is very important. In this way, I will resign from this speech by answering your question. It won't be necessary anymore, because here I will say everything I have to say. The anti-carbon campaign reflects Polish energy. This campaign is media-led by Germany, but unfortunately they do not actually reduce their potential for permanent brown coal, the most dirty one. Imagine that at night, Germany's energy base is 80.90% It's this brown coal energy right here. And that's the answer to your question. One last thing: prices. Current prices for our western neighbours have increased by 47% in 10 years. Germany in 2006 had one of the lowest energy prices in Europe, and today it has twice as much as the price in France, which until recently In other words, when I was studying, it was given as a negative example in the context of the highest prices in Europe. That's what this leads to. If you think these calculations are wrong, I'll give you one more argument. The largest energy companies: RWE and the concern E. ON... RWE in 2015 already recorded 150 million losses, and the concern E. He hasn't been able to get away with anything in a long time. They operate only because they are supported by a very strong economy and by the German state. Ladies and gentlemen, no one like the Poles. And it's well-known. In particular, the Law and Justice are not in favour of a united, united Europe. And no one like us wants this solidarity to be balanced and translate into all aspects of life, not only when Europe wants to sell us something, but also when we have something Europe has to offer us. So... I've got a few more numbers listed here. Mr. Senator, an example of Germany is a bad example. If we went the same way, we'd get into giant problems, and social costs would be... As I say, I have presented here concrete data that society must pay for this. German society could afford to spend EUR 6 billion within six years. Count it and balance it with the Polish budget. And ask yourself if we want to go this way and produce more pollution into the environment, which is undoubtedly because it is systematically monitored. and in the case of the so-called. bad luck with the weather to produce less energy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u191	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes? Please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Andrzej Piotrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to start by appealing to Senator Augustine. [[Voice from the room: Augustine, Augustine.]] Augustine, I'm sorry. Mr Senator, you have stated in your report that my statements at the committee meeting yesterday were not always true and often not true. I have a huge request that we do not turn this discussion into a non-essential discussion, in the comments of ad personam. And I appeal to you, in some skillful way, to withdraw from such a thesis, especially since it points to the plurality of this information... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Minister...]] I believe that the element to which our discussion may relate concerns the issue of notification. I actually said it in general, and I'll explain the details in a minute. I think that should dispel your doubts in this regard. Well, let's start with the notification, and I'll leave this appeal as Okay, I'll mark it. It's a non-politician. I don't want you to put me in this game formula. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has notified a public aid scheme for RES. The substitute fee in this system is only a component which is not public aid, because the fees paid are intended for the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which is not an economic operator. It is a state agenda which is designed to allocate these resources to environmental objectives in accordance with certain rules. Therefore, when the amount changes, it is not possible at this time for the Commission to question this and to conclude that this changes the state aid system, because this area is not public aid, but it is as if it were all... And thus the thesis that was raised here, as I'm afraid that's how I'd put it. The way of obscuring the image, not explaining, by the lawyers of organizations representing a part of the RES side, is completely not from this fairy tale. I think it was more about creating a threat to the claim that someone would have to pay the fees. If there was a situation, I am surprised that someone is accusing the Commission of being so far off as to be irrational. If they had somehow been carried out, this is not the case, the need to refund the fee and consequently the traders would have a claim to the State, if this claim were effective, they would have been compensated equivalent to the lost aid, so the effect would have been the same. If someone's help is unjustified, unauthorized, then... I'm sure that's not the solution. This aid would result from two maybe important areas. Firstly, the environment or RES entrepreneurs received aid in the form of investment grants from regional programmes as well as from central programmes. This aid was often 70% investments. Therefore, talking about mass bankruptcies is, I would say, It's a clue that this sector is operating on some kind of superstitious basis, if you can get up to 70%. grants and then bankrupt as a result of a change to an instrument that does not have a direct, formal transfer to revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to say to myself that the appeal from the Polish banks is an appeal from a certain environment that remains I'm ashamed to say In the world, used to being wrong with impunity. And the banking sector is the same economic sector as the others, but in the public opinion it should be much more sensitive to its integrity, and therefore apply the principles according to which risks are analysed and for example. loans are not granted at a time when it is known that the government's indicators for the development of the industry have already been exceeded. This is irrational action. I just want to highlight one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, banks don't operate their own money. They're operating on deposits. Even if it is not in a given bank, they operate the same way by means of companies and companies. Unfortunately, they may also fall and should therefore weigh very heavily the risks. In fact, what could be observed in the development of the RES industry was on the one hand intensive subsidies, and on the other hand instruments such as certificates, which are not the happiest... The Commission is suggesting that we withdraw from this. We in Poland accepted that the certification system is a system that will be gradually extinguished, of course taking into account all acquired rights. It will be extinguished in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a holistic landscape, I would say it should be accepted with some kind of surprise that... the senator was asking very much whether there was a consultation with one of the chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many such organizations, and I do not see why one Chamber should be so important. I understand, on the other hand, the question of consultation regarding the position of President of the URE, because the President of URE actually cares about this market, has many experiences here and has a lot to say. However, I would like to stress that we are discussing a change that concerns a substitute fee. This substitute fee is not, let's call it, in the jurisdiction of the President of the URE. It is only a certain substitute component which is intended to motivate the marketing of certificates. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? This incentive instrument does not work, since the substitute fee is in fact not being used at the moment due to its amount. The market consists of 2 parts. One part, the dominant part, is a non-sessional turnover in which prices They are known, TGPE publishes them They are excellent and reach back to old times, because this is about 285 zlotys of transaction value. This is, as I say, the dominant part of the turnover of certificates. At the same time there is, I would say, a huge narration from the environment, as it is bankrupting... Well, ladies and gentlemen: either. Or most of the turnover goes at prices from the old period. At prices which at the moment relate to highly subsidised investments from aid schemes for Poland built sources It's either... Where would an entrepreneur lose at this point? Who's losing it? I would like to point out that there are small entrepreneurs who, let's call it, in a rather surprising way represent a narrow group of final owners. We are getting more and more voices that the RES sector is an area of very extensive pathology. There are many situations in which state-owned companies were sold projects that actually came down to putting dots on a map and saying that this is a plan that concerns... that it is the construction of wind farms. I don't want to get ahead of myself. It's probably gonna be public soon. I think that we will then have to consider whether you have actually developed this sector or whether there have been some very questionable quality transfers of money to a group of entrepreneurs. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. This regulation, the submission which you are considering at the moment, concerns only a substitute fee. I would like to point out that practically all the amendments... Even the proposal to amend the Polish Bank Association on the mechanism of thinking was identical to the amendments made or suggested by some of the organizations, I note: some of the organisations of the RES sector. Why? Because many small RES entrepreneurs have reported to the Ministry that they need to find organisations that represent them, because these existing ones are dominated by large players, even though theoretically there are small players, even though they are supposed to be, as someone here has quoted, thousands of such entities. No, it's not. Technically, yes, these are group numbers, but very highly aggregated property is here, although this is done through mechanisms that require appropriate tools to be followed to the end. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer here to a few elements. I would very much ask that the thesis once said should not be repeated, even if we are on a slightly different forum, but this applies to the same person. I hate to mention your senator by name, but... As I explained yesterday, as a result of the law, the development of prosumer energy was not blocked, so-called. civic energy, because its development in Poland has taken on indicators, which so far are unprecedented as regards this segment. That's 100,000 MW. For installation on the roofs of individual houses and for the beginning of this type of movement it is a lot. That's 21,000 installations. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not repeat over and over again the newspaper sponsored by PR actors who want to show that nothing is happening, that it is only bad. And on this narrative they are trying to build not quite a clear mechanism for me, in which at the same time the government would do more. There is a model that works, develops, there is much evidence that it has been selected quite well and that it also takes into account the mistakes made by other European countries. We're not gonna do the same thing, we're not gonna pay extra, and we're not gonna give salesmen the opportunity to say, "You're gonna retire," because on the roof you're not gonna earn that pension. It wasn't about more payouts, it was more about putting some citizens' initiatives on track that would benefit this citizen and to some extent. For RES factors. There was a question about the right side of the Vistula, addressed directly to me as a representative of the Ministry. I would like to point out that on the right side of the Vistula there is a Pole, and I would also like to point out that there is Lublin, while the fact that there will not be... Of course, it is currently planned to build a power plant around Bogdanek's deposit, and this is also the right side of the Vistula. On the right side of the Vistula is the Steel Vola It's a gas power plant, but it's pretty powerful. She was in a mess that happened there a few years ago, and the bankruptcy of the general contractor... There's not as much a technical problem as documentation at the moment. The technically unknown entity cannot be operated. I mean, everybody knows how it works, but there are rules of professional play. Reconstructing the documentation after that, the bankrupt entrepreneur, unfortunately, is quite expensive and time-consuming, but necessary to treat it as a professional source of electricity and heat. There was also a slogan that a reduction in the substitute fee would cause compensation. It's a whole different story. Ladies and gentlemen, the substitute fee is a mechanism which was intended to direct the interest of the entities required to buy the certificate precisely to buy the certificates and then to cancel them. It's supposed to be bigger, it's about the size of a row right now. As you can see, this mechanism has become a source of pathology that we observe in the trade of certificates, and that's why we decided to regulate... I.e. Members have submitted such a proposal, and the Ministry, after considering it, has stated that it is worthy of support. Now the notes about the mode, the quick handling of it. I think they're a little inappropriate. If any regulation can pass through Parliament quickly and it is useful... And this one is actually focused on eliminating the problem... well, maybe not eliminating it, but limiting the scale of the problem that the RES environment has been talking about for many years, and it's not just for this government. The problem of surplus green certificates appeared many years ago and remained only in the sphere of conjecture. It was said that some strange transactions took place outside the session, outside the dance floor, and suggested that the government do something about it. And here he is, ladies and gentlemen. Waiting for this to happen until the main amendment is about a month or so of not regulating this problem. It's a short record. It seems to me that it makes a very deep sense to process it at the moment, and I hope that this will in particular allow small RES producers to regain financial stability, although, as I have noted, many of these entities have already received quite large State aid, both investment aid and certification aid. In conclusion, I would just like to add that, as part of the amendment, we are preparing further improvements to the auctions. We assume that this is a model that will be clearer and limit the possibility of intermediaries entering RES manufacturers and entities obliged to... Well, in this case it will no longer be bought by entities. This will be directly translated by the account manager into the accounts of citizens and entrepreneurs. Several times we have observed situations in which intermediaries were particularly concerned with biogas plants. They were able to make use of the quite difficult financial situation of biogas plants and buy certificates for a small price, and then, at a time when the purchasers carried out this obligation, sell them for a larger, much higher price. In this connection, it can be said that some of the regulations introduced have been passed by the group we wanted to help, and this always gives rise to some sort of frustration due to the fact that this regulation was not necessarily effective. But, as I say, certificates are an element that has already been recognised by the committee as an element that should be extinguished. The point is that it is operating aid and, unfortunately, it is susceptible to a number of phenomena which are difficult to classify differently than as some kind of pathology. And yet, Marshal Borusewicz had a question for me. I don't know if he's in the O.R. [[There isn't.]] He's not here. Then I'll answer him in a different way if he formulates a question. Now just a little bit. Will investments in clean coal technologies be implemented in Poland? Yes, they will. At the moment, such an investment is planned near Bogdanek's deposit. It would have been done by Enea. I do not hide that this is an economically difficult decision, because these technologies are very expensive. It is not a question of incapacity of the sector, it is a matter of the fact that the source introduced should work on the basis and does not fit into the system in which we introduce many RES sources. They are generally uncontrollable and therefore Except for the ones we're going to organize in clusters. It's like they're expecting a source on the other side that's going to be able to moderate. And here it turns out that it is on the principle of either or. But maybe we can find a place in the base for this kind of experiment. There's been a lot of speeches. If I'm missing something, I'm asking you to do the question again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u193	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for you... [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator Rybicki, and then Mr. Senator Augustine and Senator Grodzki. [[No, then Senator Terminski.]] Okay. First Senator Rybicki and then Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a year has passed since the law entered into force, which changed the rules on which it was possible to make decisions on the location and construction of wind farms. The new distance between the windmill and the buildings is ten times the height of the windmill. I would like to ask whether the Ministry is monitoring the situation and whether it has knowledge of how this decision has affected the locations of new investments that affected decisions made by investors. And the second question that somehow relates to it. What is the interest in installing wind farms at sea? Are there any decisions on the investments that will be implemented in the near future? What is the Minister's opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u195	The answer to the first question was already answered indirectly. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exceeded the indicator we have set for 2020 in terms of the development of wind energy on land. Therefore, it can be said that at the moment, what arises on land is... These are, above all, those solutions for which projects have already been prepared. Entry into force a distance bill must not cause the law to act backwards. Therefore, it can still build and some of these investments actually, despite this narrative that it does not pay off, are building up. That's where about 30 MW came in, if I remember correctly. Before that, we were dealing with avalanche growth... As you can imagine, I used the word "avalanche." Avalanche is not anything positive, it is simply an inertial mass that destroys everything that it finds on the way. Here we've seen a rather similar thing. This avalanche in this sense has been stopped. I hope that these wind farms that are being built right now are no longer wild-west farms, that someone made a deal with someone, against the will of the people, and then let them process with them. The owner's gonna change, and you don't really know who to sue. A lot of... I mentioned pathology here. Very many projects have been carried out in this way, and hence there has been so much rebellion from people who have been affected by it. As far as offshore farms are concerned, the government sees this as a very attractive opportunity, but we need to be aware that our energy system is not prepared for this. So far, we have had a number of productions and consumers of electricity, those with high power and high demand, in the south-western part of Poland. In the northern part of Poland we have basically 2 large agglomerations, Szczecin and Tricity, so the introduction of... At some point the associations began to judge that on the Polish Baltic there could be up to 8 G of energy, power from the wind. Well, that would be a huge problem for the system, because it would have to be put deep into the middle of the country, and that would mean investments in billions. So it's not that it's just the cost of building turbines at sea. It's also the cost of building... Therefore, considering the different plans, we are now assuming that around 2030 we will actually be able to say that we have prepared for the development of wind energy. If something happens before, it's very small, so that we don't have a disturbance in the transmission system. Did I answer your question? [[Yes. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski, and then Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u197	Thank you. Minister, a question. I'm not getting into an ideological dispute, whether it's more energy that's replicable or conventional, because it's a question of approach. I have another question. In Poland, about 160 TWh of energy is produced annually. The issue of redemption of certificates concerns approximately 15% of 93% Those 160 TWh energy. I'm counting the ratio of conventional energy to total energy production. If we compare today's contract prices of certificates, I stress, contract, or over-the-counter, you said that 280 or 285 PLN, such values are at stake With today's market rates of less than 100 PLN, much less than 100 PLN, we will notice that the difference is about 200 PLN. And when we multiply all these values by ourselves, we're going to talk about the difference between 4 and 4.5 billion in the annual system. And now, the four-and-a-half billion that we're getting today is renewable energy... I understand that ultimately, the creators of this law would no longer receive them. 97% The values that Senator Pekkis was talking about are based on long-term contracts. One of the disputes we're following in the media today is the dispute between the Tauron energy group and one of the suppliers of these green certificates, some kind of wind farm. The claims, at least that's what the media reports say, are counted in billions. And now my question is this: Because the state as Ministry of Energy oversees energy companies, do you have any idea of solving these contracts, 97%? contracts? Or will these contracts remain independent of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u198	Senator, first of all, it so happens that the law of commercial companies was invented in the 19th century, and it is very right to note that a distinction should be made between the owner and the operator. And we hold on to that distinction very strongly. Therefore, commercial operators are not manually controlled and it is difficult to talk about the government's plan here. However, we are, of course, observing the strategies adopted by the companies. It's something that's approved by the board of directors by the general meetings. Within these strategies, of course, we see a number of problems. But since you brought up the Tauron issue, you have also given in to a press myth. That is not the problem of Tauron. In the case of Tauron, there was a daughter company called As long as my memory doesn't confuse me. First Trade Company. And it's this company that has a conflict, but not with the certificates... Well, in my opinion, she was going to buy Well, again, I'm not prepared for this today, so please don't account for it if I distort it a little bit. The energy from the wind farm and then sell it further, also to its owner. It turned out to be a lousy business idea and this company has been in danger of bankruptcy for some time now. Therefore, one of the main stakeholders Let's call it that. The contract with this company is trying to prove that it is then the responsibility of the owner. Well, like I said, it's a denial of the fundamentals of capitalism's development in the world. What more can the Minister of Energy say about this? We're in favour of commercial law, too. As for the remaining contracts, I would like to say that this regulation proposed by the initiators, a group of Members, is not a direct solution, but is a statement: there has been a very large area of turnover in the market for years... strange. Therefore, there has also been a discussion over the years, what can be done about this. This is one of the ideas. We think he might be very hit. Let's see what the outcome is. If it turns out that the result will be some negative phenomena, something that needs to be regulated further, then we will have an amendment in a moment, in which we will be able to improve something. The votes were raised that there should be a minimum fee. Well, either we decide to link it to the market, or we still decide to go into some kind of IV and assume... We're doing a market reform, but not really. Well, I'm sorry. The Polish Bank Association is not in favour of market reform. Well, let the president say clearly that he is a supporter of a centrally controlled economy. [[Mr. Marshal, would you mind if I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u200	Minister, just to be clear, my idea was not to go into the details of Tauron's relationship with the market environment or defend this market environment. This, of course, is their dispute. Rather, it was about showing the scale of potential claims that arise between companies of this type. In the context of the compulsory application of the law, for example, claims may arise in the framework of a strategy approved by the Ministry for such companies. Of course, they will continue to be examined in accordance with the Commercial Companies Code. As for the market, I am a strong supporter of this connection to the market... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: This is also not exactly...]] I'm saying it wasn't my intention to discuss whether Tauron was right or wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, Tauron is not really a company in which the State has a controlling interest. Maybe that's an important thing, too. As far as the strategy is concerned, of course, the State is one of the shareholders in all these companies. In selected companies it has indeed control packages, but the strategy cannot be adopted without approval of the other shareholders. These are public companies. There are a lot of long-term players there, but sometimes also short-term. And all shareholders participate in the approval of the strategy. So I wouldn't find out here that it's a relationship that has some clues and a way of regulating. The truth is, this solution, contrary to the voices that have emerged here, is not addressed to the companies, because the nawis, which exists on the market, is not the problem of those who buy. Nawis is the problem of manufacturers. Therefore, if we can get more money on the market... I emphasized it in the Seym, and maybe it's the right time to do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Energy may issue a regulation until 30 August in which he will change his purchase obligation. The association of Polish Banks tried to sketch it and to insert it into the law is the wrong approach, because it is overregulation. There are some things here that remain in the regulation. In addition, the bank made a mistake and the minority group decided to take only a fragment of the proposal, which is also a bit of a curiosity solution. But okay. I don't discuss such things. If it turns out that at this point we can not increase the charges for end-users, i.e. individuals, as well as for entrepreneurs to increase the obligation to buy, the Minister of Energy will consider this possibility very seriously. This would help to reduce the overhang. We're not just gonna eliminate him because the problem is actually pretty big, but we're gonna do it for the first time, I think it's an important step in that direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u203	Of course, from my point of view, Minister, it is quite crucial whether we are violating EU regulations or not. The amendment concerns one of the elements of the RES support system, i.e. a system of certificates of origin. This scope is also covered by the Decision of 2 August 2016 issued by the European Commission, which considered the previous rules compatible with the internal market under the Treaty. Please tell me whether this decision does indeed indicate that any changes to aid measures, including these, need to be notified to the European Commission or not. Is there such a reservation or not? That's my first question. Two. Mr. Chairman, I wasn't allowed to ask... I actually asked that question, but you weren't given an answer. Now's the time. It's about the question I asked at the committee meeting. Namely, according to you, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, the data which were presented in the justification of the Act, well, far from the actual data. Therefore, the table in which the effects of this law were calculated for the final recipient was, according to you, the President of the Banda, well, wrongly counted. My question is, do you agree with these reservations? And two: who really is? Because I do not think that Mr Suski has prepared this table? Who calculated it and based it on what? Because, as I understand it, you, in support of that project, accepted its justification, and so, I believe, you accepted these calculations as well. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u204	Mr. Senator, I understand you're not backing out of what I asked for. Well, it's gonna make me think about any further steps, because it was a very specific charge. So that I repeat the appeal again, this session isn't over, so think about it, because I wouldn't want to undermine your credibility, just like you did with mine. As far as system notification is concerned, I will respond very briefly. Each country can have a RES support system according to its own idea. Public aid shall be notified. The substitute fee is not public aid. I think I've made it as clear as possible. [[But is that a reservation in this decision or not? Can you say yes or no?]] The decision notified the State aid scheme. If there is a change in the section which does not concern State aid, the only element in the discussion with the Commission may be whether it is public aid or not, and in this respect I do not see any particular reasons for the dispute. As I have pointed out, our experience shows that the Commission is rational and therefore will not consider as public aid something that is not a flow of money to the entrepreneur. As far as data differing from actual data... The president yesterday, unfortunately, did not define what these discrepancies are, so all I can say is about my suspicions, leaving your president with the discomfort of translation possibly... but maybe he'll also accept that this explanation is good. Ladies and gentlemen, these tables actually provide data on the predatory situation, which is when the Minister will increase the obligation to buy certificates. This effect was expected by the initiators, and this is what they told you. Therefore, the president, I presume, At the moment, he's looking into the documents. When you say that this data doesn't correspond to reality... Yeah, 'cause it was an anticipation. But, Mr President, if you have anything to add here, perhaps we can elaborate on what this non-compliance was all about. Mr Senator, well, questions about who advised a group of Members should be addressed to this group of Members. Your faith or disbelief in Suski is your faith, and may possibly be deepened, explained or denied between you and Suski. It's hard for me to get into that. We have assessed this only from the side of the information contained in the explanatory memorandum and there is no dramatic departure from the requirements which are in force here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u205	Thank you. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question that the Senator rapporteur, Senator Pekkis, has not answered. Do you? And when will be the amendment of the RES Act, which will deal with the problem... And will it touch on the issue of ambiguities regarding the issue of local tax on wind power stations? There's still a lot of confusion. Processes are underway between wind power plant owners and municipalities. Will a possible amendment be any element that you also mention to the Minister of Agriculture, an element of support in this area of agriculture, farmers, villages? Because these are announced through renewable energy sources, which is expected to reduce, among others. costs in agriculture. For comparison, the energy costs in agricultural production are in Germany at 3%, in Poland at 12%. As a result, there is also a problem of competitiveness in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u207	Firstly, as regards the issue of the levy or more specifically the tax, it was a question of the so-called. a distance bill. In fact, the RCL website currently has a discussion on the draft amendment, the one we are talking about on the revision of RES, including in this respect a proposal for amendments is being presented. This is one of the controversial elements. This is still a presentation, which is at the stage of the ministerial consultation and public consultation. Today, for example. we have a meeting with stakeholders in the Ministry. Surely some strange arrangement of fate for this meeting did not reach an important representation of the opponents of this regulation, so perhaps we will have to arrange another meeting on this matter. From the point of view of the Ministry of Energy I can't say yet: the government doesn't really have a clever solution because, let's call it a normal tax approach when they shouldn't selectively touch a single sector, but rather be neutral for such solutions. But in the end, it is up to Parliament to decide whether or not this regulation wants to change. We've made some kind of proposal. In terms of support for agriculture by RES, the concept of clusters is one that was about to serve under-urbanised areas, and in fact rural ones. We only have the problem here that over a number of years the concept of subsidising agriculture has caused such a very zero-one attitude, i.e. Someone should be paying for something, and this thing is farmers' business. It's not a stable system. This is, of course, an EU policy, but we must always be aware that subsidies are at the expense of someone, right? And now, with EU subsidies on the one hand, we need to be fully aware that we are paying a contribution and this contribution does not come from anywhere, but from our taxes, which maybe, if we did not pay this contribution, would be less. On the other hand, if we hadn't been subsidising agriculture, we might have had problems with food availability. And that's what needs to be balanced. The Germans are a much wealthier country and are able to subsidize much more... We as part of the cluster concept have tried to come up with a model in which this solution will be more stable. So we will allow people, entrepreneurs living in rural areas, to gain additional value as a result of organizing themselves, that they will balance energy, that they will use locally available power generation opportunities, i.e. biomass, waste, but also elements typical of these previously known RES sources, namely photovoltaics or even wind, although we are also very much hoping for the recovery of hydroenergy here, and in those places where it makes sense, also geothermals, whose resources in Poland are very attractive in some places and this is just an investment problem, because drilling is very expensive and water at the right temperature is quite deep. Therefore, please countries, the answer must be that RES will be an element which can benefit from agriculture or the rural population. In fact, our idea of clusters has met with the great recognition of DG Energy. At the moment, negotiations on the winter package in RED II area are not negotiations for us. We are just putting forward demands for changes created on ours, it would seem to be, even stingy experiences, and they are received with great attention. In fact, all these demands we've been making... There was probably only one such request that was not taken into account. This is quite different from the other directives, so here we see some kind of reasons for such satisfaction. And these experiences result from the fact that the idea of energy clusters has been picked up and there are now dozens of cluster initiatives, which are partly based on creating a new value from what exists, but also really many initiatives are going towards just such an expansion in order to balance local energy. It is a relief for the main energy system and it is a kind of trend called distributed energy. It is much more rational than the development of prosumer energy, which, when successful, is a potential threat to the energy system, because a large number of such solutions on the network, which was not designed to produce simultaneously from a large number of sources at the bottom, can cause that unfortunately we will burn this network. And then you'd have to plan to upgrade it. And modernization is linked to quite significant costs, which for today's prosumer energy perspective have not been taken into account. And that's one of those things you're afraid of. For now, until this is a mass phenomenon, this problem is gone. But as with the rest of RES, as long as it was a single percentage, and most of the European countries... To make us aware of this: Poland is in the top ten in terms of the RES ratio and the countries are 28. Other countries have a much lower ambition to use RES. Therefore, the whole narrative that Poland is anti-RES... I'd say we're in a group of leaders. At this point, we also need to look in the right perspective. We are an inefficient country, and this is the transfer of costs to individual customers. This is also the transfer of costs to companies that become less competitive. The Germans dealt with it in such a way that they only pass it on to individuals. But with us, the problem of energy poverty is already beginning to be significant. If we shift the costs of RES even more strongly to citizens, this could be the cause of drama for a very large number of people. We're already at this stage. We have set up a team in the Ministry to assess the scale of this problem of poverty and to consider what kind of remedia might be. Let's hope it doesn't turn out that we need to find another financial transfer mechanism, which would raise the costs of the energy system even more, or taxes. There is no other source of such transfers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u208	Excuse me, Minister. One point, if you don't mind. We're still operating on one of these, I think... Maybe the word "slogan" is a little too strong, but we say that the Germans subsidize because they are rich, and I think the Germans are rich because they have an innovative economy. They put on renewable energy sources 15 years ago, and today they have effects, especially as regards distributed energy, and what the Minister was talking about and what we are about to do - clusters, energy cooperatives. They have excellent experiences, but they have also made great mistakes. It may be worth looking very carefully and drawing conclusions, not just saying that the Germans donate clean energy. We donate coal energy, and it's on a huge scale. It simply seems that the stream of these grants should at least be divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u209	Let me put it this way: Germany actually put on renewable energy and hoped for a significant number of jobs in the RES sector. That's what happened, but that's when it starts turning in the opposite direction. In my opinion, their vision was very shortsighted. They did not notice that the economy was moving towards the East, to China. In the traditional energy sector, they lost around 60 000 jobs, while they gained well over 200 000 jobs in the RES sector, except that, as it turned out, photovoltaic panels are now supplied mainly from China and in this part, in the photovoltaic part, Germany has already lost 40 000 jobs. If you think more deeply about wind turbines, it turns out that the important component of modern wind turbines is neodymium magnets. Neodymium magnets require neodymium. The main neodymium deposits are in Africa, where there are tribal wars, and just within China's reach, in the desert... Sorry, it's late. In any event, there are appropriate raw materials in China and it can therefore be expected that this part of wind turbines, which is of primary value, will become the domain of Chinese suppliers. Besides, we already see very high activity of Chinese companies in the area of RES. I went to China, as you may know from the press, to talk about nuclear power. The moment we courteously congratulated the auction operator on the Chinese supplier's victory That wasn't the subject we were talking to. They basically wanted to prepare further proposals, so it is undoubtedly a country geared towards a very aggressive expansion. I think that this German policy can wait for some kind of breakdown, especially as there are more reports coming from institutions that are difficult to conceive of economicism. It was yesterday that an analysis of a fairly serious energy institute was published, in which this analysis of the former thesis that wind energy could ultimately be balanced on the territory of the European continent, was subjected to a very detailed analysis, from which it turned out that it could not be done. There will simply be situations where the generation of wind turbines will be within a maximum of a dozen percent, and there will also be situations where it will be 100%. As a result, wind turbines in Europe, even on a German scale, will have to be compensated by the same conventional force. Germany, knowing this, is seeking access to gas and hence the initiative to build a second pipeline and convert these additional power to gas power, which is easier to control. Only, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an alternative to Poland. This gas delivered from Russia... The moment it turns out he's missing... Twisted tap can very strongly affect the sovereignty of our country, so I do not know if this German experience actually we would like to replicate. All our efforts have been focused so far on gas, on diversifying sources. If we want to introduce RES in this way that we will have to develop, so to speak, gas, then maybe we should start learning foreign languages already. It's, I hope, a little over-image. But I wouldn't want to expand on this subject. Of course, we are ready at any time, if you consider the senators to be deliberate, to do on the ministry, I do not know, a seminar or some discussion, and we can finally discuss issues that are not political and are very important both for the economy and for the rest of our state. I think that a little above political divisions we should decide this kind of thing, not overly narration, which is driven by a very healthy desire, a desire for profit, but sometimes the arguments used cross borders, let's call it a tolerated discourse, because they are demagogical. We should all understand where this demagogue appears. Without prejudice to RES, we must remember that this is an instrument with all its conditions, which should not be developed solely as an instrument, but rather as an instrument for achieving the goal. And the goal is to clean the environment and reduce possible climate change... [[Would you like some water, Minister?]] Got it. Thank you. [[Oh, you have water.]] ...to the extent that we can influence it. I would like to stress that if we look at CO2 issuers, we can see that China, in the second US, in the third European Union, which is leading such an ambitious RES policy, and is still the third largest issuer. If we look at the cross-section of the countries of the European Union, we can see that Poland is not at all at the forefront, Germany is at the forefront, but not only that. If you are interested, these statistics are available and on the Eurostat website, and we also have them in the Ministry, so we can make them available to you. So that there is a little bit in all of this, let's call it, various doubts, whether this procedure that we are currently observing is ultimately effective. And going back to the very substitution of coal for natural gas... As an engineer, I would like to point out that CH4, methane, which is the basis for natural gas, as a result of combustion, gives 2 products: CO2 And H2O. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've seen those water tanks that accompany the gas plants. I didn't. They're gone. So what's going on with the water? It's emitted into the atmosphere. And the steam is also a greenhouse gas, but it's not under the spotlight right now. So the question is, by any chance, is this narration that's happening right now? It's anti-carbon, decarbonisation... Please pay attention to the choice of the password that appears here: Decarbonisation. Carbon is the basis of the protein, so it's going so well. Perhaps this is a narrative created by those who have an interest in weakening the Union in some sense, in order to lead to paradoxical solutions not always geared towards achieving the goal. This goal, I remind you, was to be a clean environment and a climate. Why are our forests bad? Because we have them, and the others cut them out. Yes? [[Actually, that's what we're getting at.]] Well, maybe we're not going into this area of discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, I'm going to say that if... [[Let's hear it.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u210	There you go, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u211	Minister, are there any serious long-term, long-term research on the impact of wind farms, windmills on the environment and in particular on human health? Such studies have been conducted in the United States, Germany and are probably available. But are we conducting any of our own research? I know it's more of a question to the Minister of Health or Environmental Protection, but since the issue of wind farms is in the Minister's department, you probably know if the government has made any decisions on this matter. Is there any knowledge in this matter? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u212	I wouldn't want to answer without preparation. We can, of course, check it out... [[I'm the one who's gonna ask the Minister to answer in writing. Well, although the subject is very interesting and we would like to hear the answers.]] I would just like to stress that this impact may be of a health nature, but there may also be many other types. Well, then we'll do our best to give it some thought, because as I understand it, I'd like to know all the results... I would also like to stress that, theoretically, any construction of a wind farm should be preceded by an environmental analysis. Environmental analysis includes, among others: its impact on the health of residents in the area. If this impact has not been duly agreed, it may even be expected to undermine the building permit if it was gross negligence. [[I'll just do it, Mr. Marshal. I don't mean a simple environmental study, because it doesn't include serious scientific research, many years of observation, animal research, humans. I mean, it's research. Are they being conducted or are they possibly in the plan?]] We're gonna investigate, I don't have enough knowledge right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u213	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Grodzki. [[I have a question for you, Mr. President of the Energy Regulatory Office, if the marshal would allow it.]] Good. Do you have any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. There are questions for the president, so why don't we ask the president here. Now Mr. Senator Grodzki. And Senator Hare also has a question for the president, right? You're welcome, Senator. [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm at your disposal.]] You're welcome, Senator Grodzki, and then Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u214	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, thank you for your time. And I have a general question, and I'd like to ask for a little broader development. I looked at the transcripts from the committee meeting. I'm not a member of them. And I got the impression that the regulator you represent, in some respects, let's say, is a little critical. And I'd like to hear a comment from the president on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u215	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u216	Thank you for that question. It may not be critical, but rather expresses concern for the state of the legislation and awareness of the decisions taken. The office that I am the President of is to balance the interests. Balanced business, i.e. always look for possible effects even if you can't see them at first glance. I regretted yesterday's work by the committee that I was not allowed to participate in the work of the Sejm committee, where it really was the best and the first place to present my observations on, first, the purpose of the proposed amendment, and second, the impact assessment of the regulation to the ladies and gentlemen. If you don't mind, I'm going to repeat my position yesterday. The proposed law, according to what is in its submission, has absolutely no connection with its purpose. Amendment of the bill... The change in the replacement fee rate will in no way affect the country's sustainable development. This is a very, very far-reaching target that my team and I don't see here. Also in the impact assessments we have seen data that are either outdated or miscalculated, or finally, in anticipation, completely disregard the current legal situation, i.e. the amount of the obligation to waive certificates of origin or the presence of renewable energy in the total consumption of electricity. All the more so since I heard from the Minister today that this duty will increase. Ladies and gentlemen, this linear dependency of the increase in the obligation translates directly into the price of electricity. As the authority responsible for the size of the bills that all electricity consumers pay, I fully understand the Minister's statement that we will not be It's the Ministry of Energy... yes, because it's completely outside the competence of the Ministry of Energy. Yeah, of course. If we are talking about a legislative initiative to increase duty... But, as I said before, the Ministry and the state all have me, not the Ministry of Energy. So let me stress once again: firstly, the purpose of the bill is absolutely nothing to write down, secondly, the assessment of the impact of the regulation according to our very rapid analysis is understated twice. But if you allow me, if there is a place and interest, at least I will try to diagnose the problem, because it seems to me that we are very carefully avoiding defining what is really the subject of today's discussion and discussion in which I attended the Senate committee meeting. There's something in the law that's called a purchase obligation. The obligation to buy is a kind of privilege and the elimination of the problems that renewable energy producers have. Namely, there is an obligation for trading companies to purchase such energy. By those who trade energy, those who sell energy to all of us to our homes. And these are the long-term contracts that we have talked about many times. Those contracts were signed years ago. As you remember perfectly well and, you know, every long-term contract must contain some price element, i.e. As long as I buy something in the future. And this part of the price, determining what I'm going to buy, in most contracts, or maybe in all long-term contracts, was the level of the substitute fee. So the price I'm going to pay in the future for the energy I need to buy was linked to the amount of the substitute fee. What's going on today? Well, when I bought energy, I also bought certificates of origin, hoping that with these two products, I would make an economic profit. Meanwhile, certificates of origin cost 30 PLN today, and I have to buy as a trading company, let's assume that for 100% substitute fee, i.e. other than that I will pay PLN 160, i.e. The price of energy, I must pay 300 PLN for the alleged connection to the certificate of origin. This is extremely unfavorable for me. This is a situation that will lead me to bankruptcy very quickly because I myself have signed such trade agreements and now I am doing everything I can to find some way to renegotiate these contracts. But the energy salesman won't talk to me because he has a contract signed by me. So what can I do? Mom, Dad, save me! In Poland there are 5, 6 giant companies, which focus on electricity trading. By a complete coincidence, these companies belong to the State Treasury. And these are the ones who have those contracts they have to pay for today. Mom, Dad, save me! Save me or I'll go bankrupt! So mom and dad are saving. He saves by helping these trading companies, but by turning a blind eye to the other side, which instead of 300 zlotys could get 125 zlotys, or maybe something else... So here, where there's room for discussion, for an obvious attempt by negotiating the termination of trade contracts, mom and dad walks in and says, "We're going to do this completely differently." And this, ladies and gentlemen, is something that arouses the great concern of the regulator. Namely, isn't this a step too far? This is what I presented yesterday at the Senate Committee meeting, and this is also what I was not able to say at the Parliamentary Committee meeting. Because it's a disorder of certain rules. All the time in this room, we hear... The Minister, finishing his statement, said: we are not against renewable energy sources. Great, only during this discussion do I hear voices that are close to energy racism. These sources are bad, we'll support them... We are almost at the level of energy racism, while sustainable development refers to every source, that is, the place for businesses, planning for the long term, to be certain futures and to the costs and generated profits. That's it. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Are there any questions for the president? [[Senator Hare.]] [[The first was Senator Grodzki.]] Oh, first Senator Grodzki. [[Thank you.]] [[Senator Hare resigns.]] [[I already asked the question.]] He's quitting, too. Senator Grodzki quits, too. Senator Augustine is the one asking the question. You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Can I ask you a question?]] But Senator Augustine is asking a question. [[You can't do this now.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u218	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your statement. I wanted to ask whether the Parliament was asked to express its opinion on this issue or not. 'Cause we know you weren't there, but I'm interested in whether you've had a chance or not to be interested in your opinion. That's the first line. And then there's the second line. I know it's not about regulation, but I'll ask. What is your knowledge of this... Do we really go too far in respect of the actors and go too far in respect of EU law? Would you help us settle this dilemma? Because there are two extreme opinions on this subject and it is very difficult to take a position at the moment. What's your position? Is it really that these certificates of origin and the whole system cannot be classified as state aid, or is it possible, as it has been said in France, to include this? In my opinion, these issues are crucial. Would you be so kind as to point out... Because the minister said he didn't know what the difference was, which makes it 100% change. , and then the result of the impact on final customers varies. Would you be so good at pointing out these differences? Because we don't have that in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u220	The Energy Regulatory Office did not receive an invitation from the Sejm Board to give an opinion or take part in the meeting. Whether the President of the Office as a Governmental Administration is in Poland or not, it does not matter. I was at a meeting of European regulators, but if such an invitation were to come, I'm sure my excellent staff would attend committee meetings. That's the first question. The answer to the second question. Preliminary, absolutely preliminary, Senator, analysis... We're not the body that's standing guard. And this is where I'm gonna have to warn you right away. Public aid cases, although we should work very closely with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and it is he who is responsible for these cases. Our preliminary analysis allows us to conclude that the level or issue of a substitute fee should not be linked to the state aid aspect, as this particular piece goes beyond direct public aid. Once again, you could look for some very distant, far-reaching connection, but it's not that direct. And the answer to the third question. The impact assessment, which was presented in the documents submitted at the meeting of the Sejm committee, was primarily based on outdated volumes, for example, on the share of our accounts today, resulting from renewable energy sources. In the documents it was, it seems, quoted that it is 5.5% And in fact, it's 9.6%. Another point The size of the hanger. The size of this over-certificate of origin, which is indeed a very serious problem, because it leads to these low energy prices, has been lowered by nearly six months of production of this energy. And finally, there's this question. In the anticipation of the results, no account has been taken of the current law and the amount of redemptions already in force. But, as I say again, what we heard a few minutes ago about the increase in the amount of the redemption obligation, the more it confirms me that these prices are going to rise, because, as I said, this is a proportional relationship.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u221	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Mr. President. [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Thank you.]] The Minister wanted to speak. [[No.]] Would Minister Piotrowski like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u222	I am very brief, Mr. President, and a bit of a polemic voice. Well, I've been trying to give you a kind of vision that doesn't increase prices for consumers of electricity, because this, I'd say, is going to increase the obligation, with the current expenditure of the buyers. In general, it is primarily about the operation of distribution systems, as if... This will be increased due to the higher price of certificates, but may also be reduced as a result of the fact that there will be a traffic related to contracts. We don't interfere directly in these contracts. Mr President gave the vision here that these entities are close to bankruptcy. It's not that bad. I understand that it was more about showing that the phenomenon is serious. I would also like to point out that, to my knowledge, the President of these transaction prices, which you mentioned, not even 300, but 200 80. A few zlotys... As far as I know, there are a lot of contracts for that kind of money. These prices are not included in your cost account. Am I wrong? [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Can you answer from the spot, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Mr. President, if you ever want to perform again, it's... it's between you and me...]] [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Not polemics, but an explanation.]] [[Okay, I'll let you speak, let you explain. I don't want to lead to polemics, because there should be polemics in the government. There you go, Mr. President.]] Mr. Chairman is independent... [[I know, but...]] ...is not part of the government. [[Sure, I know.]] I wanted to present here, to demonstrate that this is not a manual market control, affecting some kind of mechanism. As a general rule, I believe that this regulation can take off some of this overhang, without contributing to an increase in prices for end-users. This is a summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u223	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman... It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Can I have it?]] From the point of view, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u224	Thank you. Yes, of course. Fortunately, in our regulatory policy, we do not take account of the size of the bills that we all pay, the amount of the substitute fee. Because we'd have to take 10% into account. 300 PLN. Well, lucky for you... In our calculations we rely on market prices of certificates of origin and market prices of certificates of origin These are prices from trade conducted on the stock exchange, both session and non-sessional trading. And again, if we're talking about how these prices are going to rise, even market prices, by increasing their share and rising their prices... We will have to include this greater value in the electricity bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to inform you that a government representative and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office have responded to senators' inquiries. I would like to inform you that the representative of the government, Mr Piotrowski, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Sławomir Rybicki. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Gawada. [[How about from the spot?]] Or a chair, Mr. Senator? [[It's okay.]] Good. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Mr. President! In today's discussion, when the Renewable Energy Sources Act is so widely discussed, it is worth asking ourselves the fundamental question: what is the purpose of this law in the entire energy system of Poland? And, of course, the justification set out here makes it clear that this is the implementation of the substitute fee and the flexibility of the whole certification scheme for certificates of origin. But we cannot ignore another very important aspect in this discussion today: what energy is in Poland, what energy is in the whole economic sector and how it should be treated. Because no one in this room imagines that it can be missed at any time or that it can be part of some more serious risk, a more serious disturbance in our country. Therefore, energy, which is important from the perspective of the whole economy, should be guaranteed, secured. It should reach us at relatively safe prices allowing economic development and acceptable to the final consumer, for each household, for each citizen. And I am very pleased that Senator Pekkis mentioned here in the discussion some serious arguments concerning the functioning of climate and energy policy, with emphasis on the climate aspect, because today, in view of the functioning of EU legislation and directives covering the whole energy sector, this climate aspect is not only not overlooked, but it is becoming a very serious restrictive argument, I would say, a national approach to the whole energy sector. The example of this German Energiewende allows us today to draw serious conclusions for ourselves on the basis of the German experience of this transformation, which is already being observed in the tens of years of time. Senator Pekkis pointed out that such a large, excessive share of wind energy not only complicates the functioning of German energy today, but also is a very serious threat to neighbours, including Poland, because the excess of energy, according to the laws of physics, cannot, in colloquially speaking, escape into the air. This causes very serious turbulence, including in our energy system. And now that we are looking at the functioning of energy in Poland and the share of conventional energy I am absolutely not going to use the term "dirty," "black" or "carbon" here. As well as the share of renewable energy, including wind energy, and disproportionately high support for the latter, we are wondering what is really in our interest. If we were based on German experiences, we could already notice today that the re-evaluation of this wind energy in our western neighbours, on the one hand, undoubtedly caused very high costs for every citizen, every German citizen, and, on the other hand, limited the possibility of safe management of this energy, because there is no lack of examples and evidence that they lacked energy when the wind was not blowing and the sun was not shining. The purchase of this energy in these short spot transactions was very expensive for them, but one can say: well, their economy can afford it, because for so many years they have been developing so dynamically. But let's look at the conditions in Poland, also the political ones. I recall the speech of the then president of the energy team, Andrzej Czerwiński, later Minister of Economy, who was mainly involved in energy. His statement was that we would look for the cheapest solutions in renewable energy sources and complement them with the slightly more expensive ones, and if we reached the 15% target Then we'll cut it off. Those are his words, I think, from 2013. In addition, they can also be read in the minutes of the panel's meetings. I am talking about this because this process of realising the share of renewable energy sources in Polish energy is not a coincidence and it is not just happening today. We approach this in such a way as not to overstate the share of renewable energy sources and not to overpay, in short, this energy, which today is called renewable, often pure energy, and it is not always so pure. If we analyze it in the context of the overall energy balance, we will see that often these moments of shutting down conventional power plants due to excess wind or other energy and later launching them cause very high costs, including In quotation marks - costs associated with excess CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. In this perspective, we need to look for these solutions and this law goes in this direction, not only to make it more flexible, but to implement a market process that does not work. In short, he didn't work anymore in 2013 and he doesn't work anymore. This law therefore makes the certification process and the renewable energy support process more flexible in some way. Of course, from Internet portals or from various organisations that deal with renewable energy sources, today we get such opinions that the current level of support for RES is so low that it does not even provide coverage for bank operations. In short, from the assumption of entrepreneurs who had or had such businesses or invested in this kind of business in Poland, they assumed that the support would be high enough that it would be I'm sorry about the term "self-playing" kind of thing. So he's gonna finance all the costs, and the revenues are gonna be high enough to make it worthwhile to even involve high commercial loans to make this investment happen. But today we are talking about this law in the perspective of looking for new solutions, also solutions in the field of modern energy, cogeneration energy, and we have many examples of good companies, Polish companies, champions, which with modern technologies can develop modern energy based on technologies already known in Poland, and not only in Poland, but quite well developed in Poland. This will allow us to look for solutions to clean coal technologies and not generate costs for final customers, industry, the economy and individual customers. And I think it's such an attempt, perhaps a little quick, short path to finding solutions to balance this process rationally. I believe that it was in the position of the Minister and the authors of this bill, Members, that this discussion was very much going through. Especially in this discussion, which took place yesterday at the meetings of the Joint Committees. I would like to emphasise very strongly here. Today the situation is quite difficult, but also from the statements made by the Minister, it appears that the search for such systemic solutions will continue. I remember the announcements that it would be called. big three-pack, it was 2008, 2009, then 2010... This big three-pack Not a little three-pack, really. It did not function, the search for solutions for RES lasted for many years. And I think that today we are in a situation where we have to balance, we should balance Polish energy with our famous technologies. And I absolutely don't think that coal Or stone coal or brown coal It's a bad fuel. Well, in a modern way, very effective, in cogeneration used, can give us a chance to develop our economy, improve its competitiveness, and also not ultimately burden the final customer. Of course, climate policy and EU policy It's not always in our best interest to say that. Sometimes we do see very serious contradictions. But I think that using those records that give us a chance to achieve good sustainable development, and taking advantage of this opportunity of renewable energy, but really prosumer, that is, a dedicated individual audience, will allow us not only to achieve the goal in the future. For today, as far as wind energy is concerned, we are already at the 2020 level, but also in fulfilling the EU's commitments 15% RES by 2020, do not fire a child with a bath, do not lay down on those technologies that are known to us and which are implemented in large investments in distributed, conventional, professional and heating energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u227	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan. [[No, not me.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill changes the rules of the game during this game. Unfortunately, this is the way the law is being prosecuted in parliament. We've got some examples from the last few days. 'Cause it's called. A good change brings us up to speed with Parliamentary projects which, of course, avoid public consultations and actually exclude the possibility of the most interested in the law to formulate their own opinions. In the case of this law, you did not even allow the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to speak, but after the speech of the President, I am not surprised that you did not invite him. I would like to remind you that last year Parliament adopted a law on amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, which de facto blocked civic energy and blocked Poles' ability to invest in their own energy sources. This regulation in practice has also completely inhibited the development of the cheapest energy from renewable sources, i.e. wind, of course. The proposed regulations will be the most affected by small Polish investors, who have entrusted state guarantees and secured loans with their assets and small personal savings. Linking the replacement fee to the market value of certificates in a situation where the value of certificates fell to the level of rubbish is a cardinal mistake because it leaves investors without a chance of solvency. Remember that bank loans for these projects assumed the price of property rights at the level of PLN 160.180. Then, when the level was lower, the banks no longer granted loans because in a situation of falling this price below PLN 150 per certificate, these loans became simply insolvent. The law passed by the Sejm is for the RES industry. I do not have to convince This is because, contrary to the statements made in the explanatory memorandum made by the Members of the applicant, it will not in any way contribute to solving the problem of oversupply of market certificates of origin, but, on the contrary, will have a rapid and negative impact on the economic situation of RES investors. This is becoming more and more convincing to me to greatly restrict confidence in the laws that our Members are preparing. Linking the unit substitute fee to market certification prices without introducing a mechanism to increase the amount of the redemption obligation from the current 15% to a minimum of 20% will result in a low price threshold being fixed for these instruments and therefore their downward trend will not be reversed. In addition, the growing economic problems of RES investors as a result of the decline in the revenues of the next group may, as a result, be a serious problem for RES lending banks. You spoke very much about this, Senator rapporteur for the minority. For both banks and investors, this will be another proof of how unstable RES regulations are, how unpredictable state action is and how risky it is to invest in renewable energy sources in Poland. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. Today I address the senators as a representative of the energy industry entrepreneurs, because I have worked with this industry for many years. Let me remind you that last year I prepared amendments to the RES Act, which was then applied and the guest sitting in our room today, Mr President URE, dared to say that these amendments were appropriate and good. But they're gone. As usual. I was already talking about threats to Polish companies. Today, it all checks out. As a businessman, I want to say hard and loud today: there is nothing worse in life for business and the economy than changing the law and rules during the game. That's the worst thing that can happen to entrepreneurs. It undermines trust in our country. This can't be right. Instead of creating a real energy strategy, legal bubbles are created that require constant revision. The applicants are having fun, and the Polish industry is losing it. Polish citizens, voters, are also losing their lives. At the committee meeting, I called for the bill to be rejected in its entirety, and at the moment I reiterate my appeal from this stand. Once again, very warmly and cordially thank you to President URE, who in very logical words showed what the situation really is. I wish my fellow Senator Adam Gawada was here because I'd like to remind him... He followed Mr Czerwinski's example. I would like to remind you of the statement not from 2013, but from 2016 the President of the Polish Energy Group from the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy, when he showed the tragic situation in energy and explained why electricity costs the citizen more and more. In the first place, when it comes to the price of energy, he pointed to coal. In second place, I remind you, there was brown coal, in third place gas, and in fourth place RES. I'll leave you senators to that fact. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u229	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! I'm not an energy specialist. I know as much about her as an average Pole. Recently, however, I had the opportunity to be with a friend of mine, where I met a young man whose family invested in renewable energy. And when it came to talking, when he found out I was from Parliament... He was not interested in the political option or the events that Poland has been living recently. He was only interested in pure business. The business he and his parents devoted most of their lives to. They invested in what they thought was right, something that became a fact and a law, something that gave the result in the economic account, and something that could be predicted as in math, as something that is tangible and sure. And what do we have today? What happened in the last few years? This young man told me all this, not knowing that I would be proceding something that was a secret to all of us a few days ago. Because here in Parliament, we had other concerns. The government with the president probably had an even bigger one when he looked at it.I don't know what to use for groups of people or thousands of people marching not only in Warsaw, but in most big cities. This young man spoke to me, and it was a really sad conversation. I'm a businessman, too, and I don't owe you any grants, no reliefs. All my life I worked diligently and paid taxes. I live in Poland and I want to live here, but I can't go by the conversations that normal people expect from us to be honest with. Honestness in connection with the fact that since they have taken a vital decision, Poland will stand behind them, because the law cannot act backwards, it cannot be turned upside down, and that unfortunately happened. And today these examples, Minister, were truly sorry to hear. It's been absurd in this room for some time now. You're only responsible for this narrow energy clipping. But what's been going on here lately is really sometimes. Mentally, you can't stand it. I say this to you as a parliamentarians, but also as a man who talks to young people and older people. During the whole meeting I had to listen to about, among other things. what's about to become a fact. Because let us not presume that at least for a moment you will lean on our amendment, that at least you will listen to us in some part or matter. It's hypocritical, isn't it? As hypocritical as President Duda's recent veto of laws No amendment was bent, and here we laid down several hundred, and more than a thousand were laid down in the Sejm. No one took a single one. No one accepted any explanation. No one on my right has asked a single question. Is that normal? Minister, is this how you're supposed to proceed today? And this is what a Polish entrepreneur is supposed to look like today, who will stay with loans, who will stay with everything he's invested in? Would you like to be in his shoes? What kind of help will you give them when they come to you and you have to pay them back? I don't know. For example unemployment benefits? Because either way or other tragedies can end. Whether the law is to solve today the problem of the Polish company, which may have been mismanaged, whether it was a year ago or 5 or 10 years ago. After all, it is clearly written under the Polish company, one, two, three. I've posted some materials online... I don't like to read, I don't like to prepare myself in writing and read words, I like to speak out of my mind. Maybe it doesn't always look the way I want it to, but... No article leaves a dry thread. How can you proceed without an opinion, without consultation, without interested parties, without the people who put their entire assets into debt? How can you move the bill from day to day, throw it as another parliamentary project? Well, Minister, where's common sense? If we're gonna convince you that this kind of thing takes time, it's gonna take a lot of different sides to say it. Commissions that last a while. It's an empty room. Is this supposed to be lawmaking today? Really? And just so the minister doesn't feel guilty about all this, because it's probably upstairs somewhere... I didn't want to get into a debate with my friend Pekkis, who we tried to push through the excise. It was a good project. Although I wrote several times in my previous term, and now a colleague of Senator Pekkis has kind of taken over this project and it seemed like we could get it, and it was a good project, plus for the citizen and plus for the state... But unfortunately, it didn't work. I was surprised that you said that photovoltaics are only produced in China. In fact, China is the largest producer. But I have been thinking recently about covering part of my roof with photovoltaics, and I have to tell you that I have a very good offer from the Polish producer. Perhaps it works on some components, but from what I know, the manufacturer is based in dozens of percent on good Polish technology, Polish warranty and Polish assembly. So photovoltaics are not only produced in China. We shouldn't be too interested in whether in China photovoltaics consume more energy, because perhaps globally they are... i.e. I'm sure they're not interested in us globally, and we should be looking at our backyard. To conclude, Minister... I asked you once, because sometimes the determinant of what is translated into the economy is the Polish stock exchange... On the Polish stock exchange for several days one can notice such a trend, that Polish companies, including... Okay, I'm not gonna name it, but I'm not involved with it, and I don't have any action. But Polish companies have lost a few or a dozen percent. The two-year results look terrible when these regulations have changed since the introduction of the new governments... And oddly enough, for the past few days... I'd have to check my computer. For a few days now, Gdańsk Energy has almost 20% growth. [[Energa.]] Energa, yes. 20% height. Well, Minister, what do you think it came from? Are those suddenly some results that weren't published that were fantastic? Is that what we're doing here, and suddenly all the balance sheets go up? So is PGE on the plus side, Tauron on the plus side. Well, it's not a coincidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u231	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to correct Senator Dowhan's statement...]] Mr. Senator... [[Grabowski.]] ...Grabowski in correction mode. But was your name mentioned? [[No, it wasn't, but... may I?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u232	It didn't happen, Mr. Marshal, my name, but Senator Dowhan in his political manifesto, at least in part, used the phrase: you will not accept any amendment. I'd like to get Senator Robert Dowhan's attention. Until the very end of Senator Dowhan's speech in the discussion, I was hoping that he would make some kind of amendment that we could lean over and consider, but unfortunately he failed me, so that I would ask him to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u233	No, no. Mr. Senator, this is not a correction. [[It has been said that you will not accept any amendment. Mr. Marshal...]] No, Mr. Senator, that's not a correction. If you want to argue, go ahead, sign up. [[But it's not polemic, it's corrigendum.]] No, it's not a corrigendum. [[If it were complex, Mr. Marshal, we could consider it, but Senator Dowhan did not make such an amendment.]] Mr. Senator, any one of us can make an amendment, including you. That wasn't a corrigendum. [[In my view, this is a corrigendum.]] Would you like me to put you to the floor? [[No, thank you.]] [[I'm filing a motion to reject the bill in its entirety.]] If you want to make a proposal or an amendment, do so in writing until the discussion is concluded. Now I'm gonna have a voice. Minister! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! The cases we're discussing... We use concepts such as certificates, power markets, etc. They may not be available and understandable to everyone, but I had the opportunity to attend meetings that were important to me, so to speak, tutoring. And I see I can use that. These were meetings organized by one of the foundations in Gdańsk, and Minister Piotrowski took part in them. So I would like to say that, of course, proceding this law, quite specialized, without an opinion and in this mode, the mode of the parliamentary law, is a shortcut. And that's another bill of that kind. This makes not everyone have a clear assessment and know what's going on. I also heard that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office had the opportunity to comment on this law yesterday, in principle, at the Senate Committee meeting. I find that absolutely unacceptable. It's, like I said, a pretty complicated bill. There are different groups that are minding their own business. I'm not saying this is some kind of unacceptable lobbying, but this is minding your own business. And this business is not uniform. It is the interest of those who produce renewable energy that is the interest of large energy companies, in which electricity production is primarily based on coal. There is also the interest of the state, which has to make decisions to ensure energy stability, that is to say, on several legs, not only in one direction. And he has to think about what's good and right not only today, but also in 20 and 30 years, because that's the perspective of investment in energy. Ladies and gentlemen, wind energy and... I'm hearing about complementing this energy with carbon energy, which is traditional. For wind energy, which has its own, so to speak, peaks when there is wind, and depresses when there is no wind, the addition is gas energy. The point is that wind power plants can be turned on and off in a very short period of time, and in the case of traditional energy the carbon block will not be switched off and will not be switched on in the short term. So while we're talking about additions, I'm going to stress that it's not carbon energy that can be supplemented by wind energy, but by gas energy. But I don't hear here at all that there's any action in this direction to make investments. For a long time coal energy, traditional, concentrated in large companies such as PGE, Enea, Energa or Tauron, has been burdened with a racket for unprofitable mines. From this energy flow there already several billion zlotys. It is understandable that in this connection it reaches for other possibilities. In a situation that is and which will be, it is certain that it will The money will continue to flow from energy to mining. In this situation, of course, our large energy companies, on which energy is based in Poland, will not have the money for the necessary investments, for the exchange and creation of modern coal energy. And these are huge costs. The change of boilers and the whole tooling are huge costs. And there probably isn't, and there won't be any money. Energy companies are forced by the government to invest in coal mines. Don't tell me it's not because I know it is. In the previous period, energy companies were quite effective in defending themselves against this, because the principle of free market was the primary principle. At the moment, the principle of the free market is not the primary rule, so you can do such things and the government does them. Energa didn't want to invest in a new coal block in Ostrołęka, but she's investing. She didn't want to. And I know that, but I'm investing. And I know why. The Minister has such power over the power companies of the Treasury, and this power is strictly enforced. And it's the Minister's decision that's most important, not the economic bill. I understand that it is necessary to modernise these old coal blocks, because we will not switch from coal to renewable energy as much as we would like, but also as we should. But we have to be clear, we just have to tell the truth that this bill will raise electricity prices. There's no need to camouflage it. And what the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Maciej Bando, said, is clear: it will raise electricity prices. And our citizens have the right to receive this information. So let's not camouflage, Minister, and let's not try to blur it. I think it's better to tell the truth and get accepted than not to say anything and then have problems. Thank you. I'll stop there. [[Applause]] [[I'd like to correct.]] Senator Dowhan would like to correct? But what? Your name has not been mentioned, Senator. [[Yes, it was mentioned in the statement...]] Was it mentioned? [[Yes.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Yes.]] [[It was.]] Then please correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u234	I'm so fast because I'm confused... [[But don't go into polemics.]] For the record, there have been two amendments made by a minority to this bill and a motion to reject it, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u235	I see. Thank you very much. And that concludes the discussion. Has anyone made a speech for the record? [[No.]] The discussion is closed... Oh, no, no, it's too soon. I would like to inform you once again that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Now I'm closing the discussion. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u236	I'll try as short as I can, because we've been working on this for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of the fate of entrepreneurs who were deceived by the government. In fact, I had the opportunity to watch a film, which showed an interview with entrepreneurs from rural areas, they were farmers, they were shown bypassing them, it was not a highly technologically advanced bypass, and a few hundred meters away was the new design of the wind turbine. And in this film, a note made for foreign money by one of the Oz organizations, these farmers were just saying the following text: the government promised us a bill that will enable us to operate. Ladies and gentlemen, without depreciating these people, it must be said that they did not invent this business. The question is, who's the government? Not the current government promised them a bill? As far as I'm concerned, promising laws to entrepreneurs is not a process without a law. And this was shown in the film as a negative phenomenon related to the current government, which does not fulfill the promises that someone once made to someone in a very bizarre manner. I'd like to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the base of business I shouldn't be explaining this to you here. It's a risk calculation. The entrepreneur invents action and looks at the market. In the case of RES, we are dealing with the base of economic activity on grants, a subsidy intended to complement the market element. This market element in the form of certificates has been characterised by one trend for many years. I have pointed out several times here that for the first time we are trying to stop this downward trend, regardless of the fact that we introduced a new mechanism last year, which for a large part of the market can be a method of getting out of this instrument and moving on to a new instrument. I therefore take these reservations as reservations a little out of this fairy tale. They're not entrepreneurs who are being wronged right now, they invented it. Someone sold these turbines to them, someone put it to them, and somebody promised them it would be great, because that's what the government says. Well, this is unfortunately, I would say, quite controversial exploitation of farmers who are familiar with other areas of production, and at the same time jumped into an area where someone promised them gold mountains without any justification. Is there any way that this should be validated? I don't know. Perhaps it should be handled by some organs. Mr. Marshal, you said that we should compensate renewable energy with gas energy. It's a German idea. Germany is quite a large country, not a direct neighbour of the country that delivers this gas, but they are friends with this country. Ours, let's call it, history with Russia... I'd say it's a very harsh friendship, and it has a lot to say for its negative aspects. Therefore, putting RES and gas energy at the moment is a very controversial decision from the point of view of state security and sovereignty. On the one hand, the government is currently trying to diversify the supply of gas. And here's the gasport. Its construction was carried out for the previous government, and it has now been completed, so it can be said that this effort was in a sense shared. But that doesn't change the situation. We are still in some way dependent on supplies from Russia. If we increase the demand for gas by putting things like that, we'll fall into a trap and it turns out that this gasport was basically, you can say, unnecessary because it didn't change the circumstances in a significant way. We must be very careful about wind energy. At the moment, certain projects are being completed. I was replacing the Steel Vola... On the other hand, we are considering that perhaps just a block in the Lower Oder, about 500 MW... Perhaps it would be good if there was a power plant with such regulatory advantages because a lot of RES installations are on the Coast, because it's quite windy there. This would be a fairly well-compensating situation. This decision still requires a few analyses and reflections, but is close to being taken. About the coal racket... This government has decided to bring mining out of collapse and from such a self-winding stream of inability. To this end, some kind of changes have taken place and a phenomenon has been triggered which, I would point out, is known on the market, namely vertical integration. In this vertical integration, due to the interruption of some kind of spiral, and at the same time a few market myths with alleged excessive stocks, etc. has been eliminated, it turns out that for today mining, potentially having a slightly smaller mining capacity... Further investments are needed and perhaps these capacities will be recreated to some extent, but only in meaningful places. Anyway, for the first time in many years, mining has begun to show... it's starting to look good, so it's hard to say. here that this investment was misplaced. However, public aid has been approved And this has been done with a very thorough analysis of the European Union Not for mining, but for the elimination of those mines that are not profitable and for the possibility of maintaining benefits for people leaving mining. They were offered quite attractive conditions, and it can therefore be said that self-regulation of self-employment in this sector has taken place. There were no public protests. I think that many people have made bold decisions, although they have been helped by benefits that are benefits for people, not for mining, because these people have left the mining industry. If this method were to count all benefits, it could be said that pensioners also continue to burden the sectors in which they worked and so on. So that's a little unfair. Besides, each country that reformed its mining sector and such countries had to bear a lot of expenditure. At the moment the plan is, I think, increasingly clear and transparent. We're going to keep the extraction, the coal energy at a level no higher than before, although the demand for power will increase. We must be aware that Poland is a developing country, and therefore we are using more and more energy. It's still multiple times... Well, maybe many times is a bad word, but there is a very large distance between us and the countries of the European Union, the most developed ones, such as Germany, where average consumption per citizen is almost twice as high. And here you can see the distance that Poland, doing as if its civilizational delay, will equalize. So we have to realize that this has happened. At the moment, we are seeing a two to three percent increase in energy demand, even greater than the previous forecasts. And here we have quite an interesting effect... We think we already know what happened. Well, last year there was a 1-point jump. This is most likely the effect of 500+. At the same time, there was more money in the less affluent families and they were allocated, in some part, to the purchase of household appliances; in any case, this is what GUS analyses indicate at the moment. People bought washing machines, some devices they couldn't afford before, and these devices are running out of electricity. It seems to me that this phenomenon should be assessed as positive, because these are equipment, generally needed at home. We should therefore consider that it is a good thing that they are there, and the answer to this must be increased capacity. This increased generation capacity will be developed differently, for example. nuclear energy announcements. We are preparing this program in such a way that it is able to withstand... the pocket of the citizen, and therefore, on the one hand, it must be safe, and on the other hand it must provide energy at the prices available to citizens. In this way we will create a mix that is considered to be based on the preliminary assessments of the committee It's too thoughtful. However, we do not start by announcing first and then wondering how to do something, hence perhaps a little bit of information from colored magazines. When it comes to coercing investment, it is hard to say that it was coercing investment. If someone operates coal power plants, vertical integration has a certain advantage It eliminates the potential impact of speculative coal prices. Because from that point on, when the power plant is vertically integrated into the extraction, it can be said that coal actually costs as much as it costs to extract it from the ground. So it's the cost of employment, it's the cost of keeping machines, it's the cost of investing, it's not the cost of investing on the stock market, where, with someone's willingness to make a profit, there are peaks pointing up and down. Finally, the question of long-term ventures. It's not like anyone's building... isn't opening up a new exploitation wall for the next week, but it's about years. Right? Therefore, this market stabilisation had an effect. Therefore, rational decisions on further investments can be made. And the consequence of that is that one of the coal companies broke the record in the world, the stock price increase record on the stock exchange. It was 700%. Ladies and gentlemen, except for the so-called. dotcoms and small companies no company in the world has grown so much in 2016. And it happened in Poland. I would like to point out that at the beginning, when Minister Tchórzewski spoke about the fact that mining would be brought out of collapse and that some investors would consider whether it was really necessary to run away from coal, it was accompanied by a giggle of journalists and comments in the press. I also spoke with Goldman Sachs, who came with a proposal, at least surprising. He said we're gonna help this government just... I mean. What pays off, we buy out, and what doesn't pay off, the government's gonna figure it out and take it out. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible to eliminate in power generation, because people need electricity, and we need to act rationally, not by speculating capital. Now it's about Ostrołęka. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way it is in energy right now, thanks very much, I would say, to the complex vision of the European Union And I've been to several European countries and there I've talked about this problem too. In general, conventional energy has lost investment impulses. It doesn't pay off anywhere. In this situation, we can decide that we are not building anything. And in such a comfortable situation, Germany is ad hoc, because their conventional capacity does not require investment at the moment. But they require ours. If we don't invest today and recreate about 8 GW of conventional power, no wind will help us. It's just that at some point, we're gonna lose the light. And this moment will take place in two or three years, according to our forecasts. Therefore, we need to create a situation where investment in sources of production... Because in the end, it's all locked up in one market. It's true, isn't it? And for everything must pay the electricity user, whether it's individual or institutional, corporate. Therefore, we need to create a mechanism in which we will actually provide these necessary sources of production with a financing mechanism. This obviously has nothing to do with today's regulation, which we are discussing here, because it is generally, well, politics. That's why it appears, among others. the power market over which you will probably have the opportunity after your vacation, as it passes through Parliament, to lean down. It is a very complex instrument and it is burdened, as a result of discussions with the Commission, with a very large number of additional addictions, which, as one can say, push us away from the goal. They appeared there, among others. obligations to allow supplies from abroad, to create equal rights, to allow what would seem so simple The idea is to build a conventional power plant that will be steerable and to say, let it work, this is the power market that I need. But there was also DSR, which is the management of the demand side. Why? It is precisely so that, at the end of the day, the Commission agrees to such a form of public aid, although the basis for this decision is the question: and why is it public aid if it does not pay the State budget to do so? Because this is the vision that the Commission has. We don't want to argue with her right now. We're trying to adjust. Ladies and gentlemen, Ostrołęka... If someone looks at the structure of the energy network in Poland, it is evident that it is the northeast. This is where we need generation power. If we build a block with a capacity of about 1,000 MW, and a permit once obtained there, it will be the power that we should have in this region. There's a couple of old blocks there right now, two hundred, which in perspective... They're basically in reserve right now. They are still functioning as a rotating reserve at the moment, but will gradually be moved to a cold reserve, and at some point, generally, will be withdrawn. We also have such a situation in Poland that we have inherited about 35 blocks from the previous system, so-called. two hundred, some of which are already basically for complete exclusion and some are for possible modernisation. These in good condition should be supplemented by investments in installations that eliminate nitrogen oxides, will eliminate sulphurs. Some of them already have such investments. There's been further sharpening. Please, one of the problems in EU policy is that new environmental requirements are emerging in a much shorter cycle than the investment cycle in conventional sources. You could say that's actually good, because it's good for all of us, for health. And at the same time, at some point I thought of this idea: let's say in two years' time, that so to speak, we turn off coal throughout Europe, since the decarbonisation policy is to be effective. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple answer to the question is why we can't decide on something like this. 'Cause it'd be blackout. So it's basically a policy at the moment to gradually reduce the coal generation division in its entirety of the energy mix. And Minister Tchórzewski announced that in the vicinity of 2050 the coal energy will actually come from no more than 50%. I think this is a balanced approach. We need to reach certain solutions gradually. We need time to create other energy production mechanisms and we need to be aware that RES in the big wind, in terms of large turbines, large fields PV is not the basis of the energy system as it depends on the aura. And as long as there are no storage options... And we should say to ourselves that we have as much storage capacity in Poland as pumped power plants, because the others are inadequate to meet the needs of large energy. These aren't big magazines. And if we're trying to put these little cells into larger systems, then the price is ridiculous, and these are still more experimental installations. Everyone says it's gonna change fast, and that's what they've been saying for 15 years. I cross my fingers for inventors, cross my fingers for those who are optimistic. We're waiting. Let this change, and at this point it will actually be completely different to treat non-steerable RES sources. But that's not an option for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u237	Thank you, Minister. Since no legislative proposals have been tabled, the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. The text of the Act is contained in print No 569 and the report of the Commission In print No 569 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u238	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission leaned on this project yesterday to implement EU law into Polish law. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. The aim of the Act is to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the European Directive on the recovery of fuel vapours in Stage II during the filling of motor vehicles at fuel stations. This amendment obliges the Technical Supervision Authority to check at least once a year the quality of the recovery of fuel vapours at fuel stations in individual hoses. During the committee meeting, this was asked. There's an answer. It only serves to check snakes from so-called. gasoline, which means every hose with gasoline will be checked once a year. It was also asked whether it had to be a special check. This will be a check accompanying the existing verification obligation for tanks. So the employees of the Technical Control Office will do this when checking the tanks at the fuel stations. After a brief, substantive and substantive discussion, 12 senators voted in favour of the implementation of the directive, 1 abstained, no one opposed it. All I can say is that we are implementing this directive... The first implementation obligation took place on 1 January 2012, but later the European Union itself amended the directive and therefore extended the implementation period. However, Member States have adopted that these provisions will be implemented by 12 May 2016 at the latest. Therefore, we are implementing this with some time-out, but I will admit that the 5-year overrun makes it possible to conclude that it is not entirely the fault of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u239	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Jerzy Szmit wish to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much to Senator Pekkis for a very precise, short but meaningful presentation of the bill. At the same time, I would like to say that the bill in the Sejm did not raise any controversy either. It is an exceptionally technical law implementing only the transposition of the directive into Polish law. Its effects are the creation of a control system for the efficiency of the recovery of fuel vapours at petrol stations in Poland. And that's the main idea and the main purpose of the bill that the High Senate is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no... [[There's one thing.]] There it is. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is the border date 4 March 2017. Those who have installed a fuel recovery device after this date must have a supporting document, those who did it earlier No, no, no, no, What's this date coming from?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u243	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u244	It is due to the technical conditions which these devices must fulfil. I'll give it to you precisely... It's an art. Three, yes. In view of the fact that the proposed provisions impose in Article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 3 (1) of the obligation for the operator to have a document proving compliance with minimum requirements for the recovery of vapours, which will however not be a new obligation and is already reflected in the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Energy of 9 February 2017 amending the Regulation on technical conditions to be complied with by the bases and stations of liquid fuels, long-distance pipelines for the transport of oil and petroleum products and their location. The time limit specified in the Act shall be the same as that resulting from the said Regulation of the Minister of Energy taking into account the transitional periods contained therein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u245	Thank you. Minister, there are no more questions. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the National Property Resources Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 574, and the report of the Commission In print No 574 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the 2 joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, the report of the meeting held on 25 July 2017. The Committee on Infrastructure held its 100th meeting and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, a hundred and sixth meeting. The Commissions considered the Act on National Property Resources adopted by the Sejm on 20 July 2017. This is another law on the National Housing Program. The bill was a government proposal. Let me remind you that we have recently passed a law on some forms of housing promotion aimed at facilitating the realization of housing in the form of apartments for rent and in the form of cooperative housing. We have also adopted a law amending the Law on State aid in the acquisition of the first apartment by young people, which aimed to allow the full use of budget resources for the financing of own contributions for the purchase of the first apartment for young people. The year 2018 will be the last year of the State's funding for the acquisition of these apartments under a program called MdM in short, i.e. the Living for the Young. The objective of the present National Resource Act Real estate is State aid to increase the supply of flats for rentals with moderate rents and rentals with the possibility of accessing property. It's designed for people who don't have the credit to get a loan to buy an apartment. Currently, Poland has a housing deficit of 970 thousand, with 2 million apartments defined as substandard apartments, i.e. low value, which also require the replacement by higher standard apartments. Currently in Poland the housing market for rent is 4%. In other Western European countries it is different, for example. in Switzerland, the housing market for rent accounts for 40% , and in France, 45%. In order to increase the supply of flats for rentals with moderate rents and rentals with access to property, the Act allows the use of property owned by the State Treasury and intended for the execution of investments in the form of housing. The Act sets up the National Property Resources, which will perform the function of the State Treasury Real Estate Authority and will contribute to the creation of stable and efficient financing conditions under the National Housing Programme. The National Property Stock will operate on the basis of a law and statutes issued by a regulation by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing in agreement with the Minister responsible for public finances. The supervision of the activities of the National Property Resources will be exercised by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. The bodies of the National Property Resources will be the President and the 9th Supervisory Board. The Act sets out the rules for their appointment and the scope of the tasks entrusted. The property of the State Treasury will be transferred to the National Property Resource by entities which, in their current legal state, manage them on behalf of the State Treasury. These entities are seniors, city presidents on the rights of the county, Agricultural Property Agency, Military Property Agency and State Forests. The Act sets out the conditions which entities must fulfil in order to participate in the tender for the acquisition of these properties for the purposes set out in the Act. The Act also specifies who will be able to be an apartment operator and what criteria he will be required to meet. These criteria are 3 and must be met together. The first is that at least 80% the usable area of all premises in the buildings will be residential areas. The second of these conditions is that at least 70% the usable area of the apartments will be flats with normal rent. And third: not more than 20% the usable floor area of the above-ground building will remain unseparated at the premises, including for common parts. The housing operator will conclude a lease agreement with tenants with the option of statutory property and lease investigation without an option with an appropriate rent. The Act regulates the rental and rental of the standard apartments for rent carried out by the housing operator. The tenant will not be able to sublet the apartment except to sublet the person to whom he is bound by the maintenance obligation. The rent will be limited by the amounts specified by the Council of Ministers in the regulation issued annually until 31 March. The control body for the housing operator will be the President of the National Property Stock. If it finds a breach of the terms of contracts concluded with the operator, it will be able to resolve them and impose penalties resulting from those contracts on the operator. The Act restricts the scope of occasional rental and enters into force 30 days after the date of publication. Mr Marshal, High Senate, there were two opposing conclusions at the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees. Senator Florek filed a motion to reject the bill, which was rejected by a majority of senators, members of the joint committees who examined the bill. We then voted on the motion made by Senator Pekkis, the motion to adopt the bill without amendment. The joint committees have accepted Senator Pekkis' request this time. 13 senators voted, 11 senators voted against, two senators voted against. Then Senator Florek and Senator Grubski filed a motion from the minority to reject this law. Mr Marshal, the High Senate, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have a positive opinion on the National Property Resources Act and are asking the High Senate to adopt this law without amendments. Mr. Marshal, report that I have completed the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u247	I'll take your call. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I made this motion at the committee meeting to reject the bill with great disgust, and I would like to justify why I did it. We're all in favour of building cheap apartments, especially for low-income people who don't have credit. You build community housing, you build TBS, you build housing cooperatives. It is important that there are different forms of housing. And just one of the forms is apartments for rent. The committee rapporteur was just talking about the problem in Poland at the moment as regards the number of apartments, that we have 363 apartments per 1000 inhabitants, that the average in the Union is 435 apartments and that we have a housing deficit of around 970 thousand. And we know how many apartments we build about a year: 150 thousand, one hundred fifty-two thousand, in 2006 there were 164 thousand apartments. There were various programmes that were being implemented: Family on their own, MdM, which is still ongoing, support programmes. And now there's a new law that also introduces perpetual use. And the whole problem is that Poles somehow have confidence in property, because if something is owned, they know that no one will take it away from them. Well, such a belief is probably due to the events we have in Poland, because it was given an example that in Germany the apartment for rent is 48% and in Poland only 4%. And this is a good direction, which is to go to building as many apartments as possible for rent, because we move, especially when it comes to young people, it's not like we used to start working in one place and for 30 years we worked there. You have to adapt to that. That's why it's also important that these rental apartments are built. Now the government has offered us a new solution, Minister Adamczyk, Minister Żuchowski yesterday it was quite precisely at the committee meeting they discussed. Well, according to the article. 10 laws specific bodies, i.e. starosts, city presidents on the rights of the county, Agricultural Property Agency, i.e. 'Cause that's what it's gonna be called soon. The National Agricultural Support Centre, the Military Property Agency and the State Forests will draw up lists of the properties they manage. Here is the controversy about the State Forests, which also appeared at the committee meeting. The point is that the General Director of State Forests said that any real estate that will be transferred to the stock will be able to be sold, i.e. may be for sale, for example. collateral for the credit. Here were these doubts whether State Forests should also be included in the list of these institutions, because it is known that the Starosts, that city presidents on the rights of the county manage, manage in their territory, according to the law, property of the State Treasury. And it's also about what the scope of data is going to be on this property list. What's in there, and what's in there? So it's gonna be, uh, the inventory of the individual parcels, the legal status of the property, the spatial planning plans... Well, here we see that it's a matter of the municipality, because as far as real estate records are concerned, the legal status of real estate, land and buildings, it's an old-fashioned matter, and development plans are a matter of the municipality. Next: various contracts, e.g. leases related to aid to farmers All this information about these properties has to be there. Data on construction works and e.g. Construction permits issued All this information has to be there. Next: data on the protection of agricultural and forestry land, contracts that were concluded. So the scope of the list to be drawn up is extensive. I'm pretty sure that in order to do something like this... to process what it's gonna be like... well, without some software, you can't get it together. These data, of course, are, they're in different ancients. This is about collecting all of these data together, and KZN can make a decision on which properties are useful for this housing. And as this list is drawn up, all those I have mentioned must pass it to the voivodeship. No, among others. Military Property Agency, State Forests, Starosts and Presidents have to hand it over to the voivod and the voivode will check it out. How's he gonna do that? After all, there are spatial planning plans that we have talked about, all the conditions that must be fulfilled. And the voivode is now going to check it out and send it back to the competent authority in the article. The 10 I was talking about, and the competent authority will request a transfer to KZN. You must apply for a transfer, and then you will sign the transfer-receiving protocol for those properties that will be transferred. And that's it. There is still such bureaucracy, and this is an important burden for the authorities, for the old age above all, and for all those authorities that will have to do these reports. In the case of large cities, these are thousands of properties. How do you describe everything? How can we gather and analyse this information? Well, it's hard to imagine. We have land records because the main surveyor of the country from EU funds is preparing such an integrated system of real estate information. This is also an important direction. The important thing is that something is being built and that it will be integrated. And there's a government attorney. In turn, KZN's task is mainly to review the land that lies in the area of the city, so that the land could possibly be allocated to construction. I don't want to say anymore why we've made this proposal and why we think it's unrealistic, impossible. It's just information that's going to be passed on, and when it comes to realization, we'll see in a year, in two years' time, that it's impossible to realize. I'm about to talk about the apartment operator, because it's gonna be mostly his job, but we're also talking about land that is within the administrative limits of the city. We have to have spatial planning plans, we have to have land, we have to have the land armed, all these elements have to be found in some way. If you make a decision, you need to prepare a plan, a weapon, and, above all, cooperation. This requires first and foremost cooperation with local authorities, because they are the ones that make spatial planning plans and are responsible for infrastructure. Without such cooperation there will be an institution that will gather information and say: here we are, here and here we are building. Of course, we only have access to some parcels, because on the outskirts where there are no weapons, it's gonna be hard to build anything. So, yes, this program could be supported, because every apartment built is important, and probably a few thousand apartments in this program will be built. But is that what this is about? Well, that's not the point. The idea is to build more apartments and improve those indicators that we talked about, the apartment rates for rent. And now the final part of all of this is who's gonna do it? What are the benefits of this program? Well, what does it turn out to be? That an apartment operator is to be selected. After preparing and selecting this information KZN will tender and select the operator. And everything is based on this operator, so my question is right away: will it be beneficial and will such operators even be on the market? Because what's going on? This operator will get the land in perpetual use, so it will pay the initial price. We've already talked about perpetual use. We were all in favour of slowing it down. Well, it was once introduced in Poland. In Western countries there is also such use, although in a slightly different form, and we modeled on Russia probably. I remember those days. And what's this all about? The point is that perpetual use pays the first fee of 15-25%. Therefore, the operator will pay the first fee, but then he will have to pay those instalments for the following years, because the perpetual use, as we remember, in accordance with the Real Estate Management Act, is in force for 40 and 100 years, and this first payment amounts to 15 and 25%. And this apartment operator is gonna get the land. If he is well armed, in a good place and something... A few such land will be found in Poland and we will see on TV how well it went and that these investments have been made. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[But, Mr. Senator, let's get to the point...]] I'll explain. I'll be done. [[...because right now it's a very extensive political statement. Please proceed to the point.]] But that justification is important. [[It's ten minutes... five minutes to make that statement.]] Mr. Marshal! I'm only saying this because... [[The rapporteur has 20 minutes.]] [[Yeah, but...]] Okay, but Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes.]] [[Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator started talking about TV, so I paid him attention to getting to the point.]] Well, television was unnecessary in that regard. [[Get to the point. It's a possibility to get to the point.]] Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! Now it's a matter of why it's a warning on our part. We all want to build apartments for rent together. And we see that in the case of what we're going to vote on, there are no apartments for rent. That they just... We're talking about some kind of possibility. That's what I said. A few thousand. What's that supposed to mean now? Well, the housing operator gets the land in perpetual use. So he's going to build apartments. The rapporteur talked about these 80% for residential purposes, then 70% for residential purposes. I want it for rent. To sum up, that's what the Minister said yesterday, maybe 50%. allocate for commercial hire and the other 50% It has to be allocated to a normal tenant. That's 50%. for a normal tenant, 15 years, with access to the property for 30 years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of business does the operator have in that case, that the rent that's going to be lower... In order for the same building to have a commercial lease, a standard tenant then, and you have to bond for 15 or 30 years as an operator. And the operator can be a different natural person, the developer can be an operator. Plus, he's got to get involved for the years. So is this... Now, the price of the standard rent will probably be determined by the Minister, if I remember correctly. [[By the Council of Ministers.]] It will be standardized by the Council of Ministers. So he's gonna be involved in this for 15 or 30 years. So really a horse with a row, when someone starts it, if there are operators who are going in. That is why we believe that the direction is important, but this will not be achieved by achieving the fundamental goal of more apartments for rent. At the end of the last sentence. The Law also provides for penalties. Penalties for not drawing up the list within the time limit in accordance with Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. And who determines that? The President of KZN shall fine 500 PLN for each day of delay. So you still threaten to punish these local governments, all those institutions that... state forests, the Agricultural Property Agency, etc. If they do not prepare these lists, they will still be punished, because there are certain deadlines for this to be demonstrated. To sum up, we support the direction of building more apartments so that there are programs, and we support the fact that there are programs, but this bill will not meet expectations, will not increase the number of apartments for rent. Of course, in this situation, there is a motion to reject and start working on another project. If you do not reject this, we will wait a year, two and again from this stand we will say that unfortunately, but the number of apartments for rent in Poland has not increased, that still is 4% , or maybe 4.5%. Because I don't rule out a few thousand apartments being built. But the costs associated with the implementation of this, the creation of a new institution, this KZN, with the creation of a 9-person supervisory board, president, vice president, etc... It really doesn't make sense to create an institution like this to build a few thousand apartments. That is why there is a minority request to reject this law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u249	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u250	I address Senator Dobkowski. Mr. Senator, I'm reading an article. 51, which says that real estate belonging to the resource can be used, among others. For sale and expropriation. And in the mouth. 2 is written that they may be burdened with limited rights in kind, that is, they may be, so to speak, given as collateral. And I would like to know if this is the government's intention with regard to state forests, that they could be, of course, those within cities, sold? Can it be expropriated to any purpose? You gonna bet? The same is true of the article. 66. Those words also appear there. Mr. Senator, are there any safeguards in the bill? Maybe it's just some stories that have happened so far, that, I don't know, things are changing because of the need to build a road... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] I'm almost done. [[You're welcome, 'cause the minute's already gone.]] I'm just gonna finish my sentence. ... Is it because of the need for an energy line? Would you mind explaining that? Was this considered at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u252	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I understand that you have detailed this bill... You can dispel my huge doubts about the fact that this bill will allow eviction without judgment, without the right to a replacement place for people who, for example, have been ill or are disabled as a result of an accident. Will the right to evict be applicable here? Unfortunately, I have such concerns. This change is, in my opinion, antisocial. This is a huge step back. You don't defend tenants' rights here at all. I have another question for you. Are you confirming my concern that citizens are not being protected here? It is a question of who persuaded the Polish government to create a law against people, to create a law, in my opinion, in the interests of groups that have huge money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u253	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u254	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Two short questions. The first relates to the wording in the relevant paragraph I no longer remember in which KZN can create so-called. special purpose vehicles. I understand that if a company is formed, it should develop some, name it, added value. What kind of companies are they supposed to be, and what are they supposed to serve? Second question. Who has determined the size of the area to be transferred to the stock? He's set at 600,000 ha. This is where I'd be on the forest side, because I'm afraid this 600,000 ha is going to be green suburban areas, which are the lungs of big cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u255	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u256	Thank you very much. I'm addressing Senator Augustine. Mr. Senator, at the committee's meeting, it was said that these land, that is, real estate, will be transferred on the basis of... It wasn't said that it could be sold or passed on as collateral. It'll be on the principle of perpetual use. As for the State Forests, there was a director of State Forests who had such reservations, but there was assurance from the Ministry that everything would be controlled and that there would be no buildings in places where there are now forests. The State Forests have unforested areas. A lot of land is unforested. Even the director has suggested that such an amendment be made, that this will only apply to unforested areas, but the Ministry has assured that it will be mostly those unforested areas, not the cutting down of trees and the occupation of forests at all. There is even a rule that it is to be within 12 meters of the wooded areas. Senator Duda... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. But you, Mr. Senator, have not referred to this...]] I was talking about what happened at the committee meeting. [[...that it's written here that it could be for sale. This is point 1: The contract for perpetual use.]] [[But, Senator, wait a minute, I don't... are we having a conversation? No. There's a question and an answer. Then you can report to the next question.]] Mr. Senator, I... [[Let us not engage in dialogue because there is no dialogue in our Rules of Procedure. You're welcome.]] Please address this question to the Minister, because I am talking about what happened at the committee meeting. What was the question and what was the Minister's response and response? [[Good.]] As for Senator Duda... You were talking about eviction. There was no eviction, but it is possible, if the contract is terminated or terminated and the apartment is emptied, that the apartment operator will pay the former tenant or his heirs the amount of the price paid by him for the purchase of the apartment, after deduction of the outstanding rent amounts. The calculation of the minimum return to be made within one month of the date of the emptying of the apartment shall be laid down in a regulation issued by the Council of Ministers. As far as eviction is concerned, I think there are just general rules in this area that protect tenants. But there wasn't such a detailed discussion about it either. As for Senator Rotnicka... that KZN will create... [[Special purpose companies.]] ...specialized companies. Yes? And then who's gonna figure out the area they're gonna hand over to the State Forests. As far as KZN's privileges are concerned, KZN has... I did not meet in this bill so that he could create special purpose companies. He's just supposed to manage. [[Art. 7. Yes, art. 7.]] [[There it is, there it is.]] That is to say, as far as KZN is concerned, its tasks include: management of real estate that is part of the resource under the rules laid down in the Act; creating conditions for increasing the availability of housing; taking action to implement, on the property that is part of the stock, housing investments; creating conditions to facilitate the formation of social housing or co-financing of housing; creating conditions for improving the functioning of social housing; financing or co-financing, on the property that is part of the stock, the implementation of technical equipment of the site... There are a number of other tasks here. I mean, these tasks will be KZN's. But there was also no such specific question at the committee's meeting concerning the creation of special purpose vehicles. With regard to the establishment of the area, all the resources of the State Forests will have to be on this list, but then KZN will have what areas in these resources can be transferred under construction. Except the Minister assured me that they wouldn't be the areas that are wooded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u257	Senator Libicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... But it is also a question to the rapporteur of the minority proposal, Senator Flork. That is, it has been a long time since I have encountered a situation in which we would receive in our boxes such a large number of emails devoted to one subject, that is, the subject of eviction. I would like to ask both you and your rapporteur for the minority whether the concerns presented by all these authors are justified and whether the Senator for the rapporteur for the minority also considers it justified, or whether these are the fears of growth that arise, for example. from the ignorance of the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u259	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm in trouble because a similar question has already been asked by Senator Duda and Senator Libicki. I'm on the same case. The Minister will probably have to answer that question. Since we all get hundreds of e-mails that he's in... [[We didn't get it.]] [[Everyone's been hit.]] And so on. The tenants' association writes: first of all, we do not agree with the introduction of a provision allowing eviction without a judicial judgment and without the right to social premises of people who are suddenly in a difficult situation. I quote, probably all senators have... We can't just walk past those letters, because there are hundreds of letters. Please answer me. Maybe that'll calm the citizens down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u261	I'm checking my mailbox, and I don't have any e-mails on this case, but it's okay. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. [[You didn't get it?]] [[I didn't get it either.]] No. [[Thank you very much. I serve my credible...]] Only the Senators of the Platform got... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] I don't really have one of those e-mails, Mr. Senator. [[I, Mr. Marshal...]] Did you get it? [[I don't.]] I can show you my entire box... [[I, Mr. Marshal, cannot believe that...]] It's a good thing you got... I don't know, maybe... [[Mr. Marshal, as part of our inter-party cooperation, we will pass it on to you.]] No, I won't be able to read, so that... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u262	With sympathy for these actions, but also with the need for credibility... Questions to the 2 rapporteurs. It is said that the program is primarily 2 thousand PLN for 1 m2. It's said that this bill allows for an additional share of the land. But they don't say who's gonna arm them and say if it's gonna be delicious... To local governments we will give 2,000 PLN and land somewhere far away, and you do whatever you want to do, that is, oppose public opinion, why you do not pursue a proud, wonderful program that cannot be realized. Second thing. Mr. Marshal, a little more patience. Isn't that gonna ruin the construction market? The construction market should be neutral for politicians. It may happen that if we leave this option, we will destroy the private market and then nothing will be reborn, neither the state market nor the private market.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u263	Mr. Senator, please... [[This is dumping.]] ...about the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Libicki, I am the rapporteur of the committee, 2 joint committees. I've been looking at my e-mails and I don't have... [[There isn't.]] I think I should be the first to get these e-mails as committee rapporteur. I don't know if this is some kind of action, maybe it's action... [[I'm sure it's a citizen's...]] And when it comes to evictions, that wasn't the case at the committee meeting. I think it's... There is a separate bill on this subject that protects tenants from eviction. That's all I can say in general. As I say, it was not considered in detail. That's the subject, that's not the kind of concern at all. I would ask that the Minister explain these doubts later. I think there's a special bill on this subject that protects the tenants from eviction. Senator Fedorovich asked about a similar case. Senator Rulewski was talking about the price, about PLN 2,000 for 1 m2. Mr. Senator Rulewski, these properties will be transferred to operators on a market basis, which is simply through tenders. So it's hard to tell how much they're gonna cost. Now... [[The question of credibility is that this is going to fit in 2,000 for 1 m2...]] Well, it's probably... probably in every... In Warsaw it will be more expensive, and somewhere in the province it will be cheaper, because we know what real estate is. In every county there are such areas, the elders have such areas and military property also, so that... Such details will be then, already during the implementation of the bill will be, well, they'll just... So much I can say is that this market will regulate everything, so it can be said in general. About who's gonna arm... Well, there's a record that KZN's tasks will also help to arm the area. Well, I guess that's pretty much it. [[I'm gonna...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Questions now...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u265	No, Senator... No, no, questions later. Now... [[There were questions for me, too, the same questions, so...]] To see the senator, yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u266	Senator Libicki, Senator Fedorovich... Will it be possible to evict without a court order and without the right to a social establishment in the case of a person in difficulty? I would ask you to direct this question to the Minister so that the Minister may answer that question, because I got it, too. As it turns out, it's probably just the Senators of the Civic Platform that got it, because I got it, too. Around 50 e-mails in this matter and I would ask the Minister to answer this question competently. [[Everyone.]] Senator Rulewski's question, the 2,000 zlotys for 1 m2, is it real... Well, it's real, because it's supposed to be a low standard, so depending on what standard this apartment is going to be... As an asset valuer, I can say because I've valued a lot of apartments... Of course, housing of this standard can be built, only the problem is that initially the assumption was that these land would be transferred for free and will be built on it... And that would be the main difference, competition. The fact that these apartments will be cheaper. And now on the free market, as it turns out, and given that it will only be perpetual use and that the operator will have to pay this first fee, then bring the next... well, therefore the competitiveness of this solution... That's why we're talking about this not accelerating the construction of apartments for rent, because these apartments are going to be what they're going to be, they're not going to be competitive enough to possibly build more. It will be shown after the first tenders KZN will carry out, whether there is really a chance. With regard to weapons, etc., this is the whole problem, because finding land in the city that is prepared to make investments is very difficult, they have already been sold, investments made, therefore you need to look for land that needs to be armed. We're just talking about cities and the outskirts of cities. The outskirts of cities are even more difficult when it comes to weapons. These are certain costs. KZN among others The money from the sale of the property we're talking about is also supposed to finance the construction of weapons. And if it's hard, we know. These are zoning plans, first of all, and that's what we need to link to... And how we make plans and how much time it takes... Sometimes it takes two years to establish a spatial planning plan. Therefore, in the perspective of some time, some places may be chosen, but... To sum up, this 2,000 is possible, because this also applies to areas in smaller towns. It's impossible in big cities, but in smaller towns it's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u267	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Libicki a question. [[May I ask you a supplementary question?]] But you're saved, Mr. Senator. [[Okay, okay...]] Unless there's a very important question you'd like to ask right now. [[In this segment, it's clear.]] Okay, so if Senator... [[Good.]] ...Libic will agree, it's the senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u268	Mr. Senator Florek, and, at the same time, assessor, you have indicated that this will be of a lower standard. Today an apartment in the standard of development, i.e. unfinished average price is 3 thousand 800 zł, well, let's say less. But what does a worse standard mean? Will it be slums, no windows, no floors? What else could be less in this apartment? Well, you can bring water in buckets from the well. Yeah, okay, no plumbing and no heating... It's China.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u269	Maybe just a second. Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u270	Thank you very much. Before I ask a question, I'd like to say that I'm a little sorry, because Mr. Marshal and Mr. Senator rapporteur seem to suggest that I'm making up a lot of e-mails... [[No, no...]] [[No, but I absolutely do. I'm just saying that I don't...]] I'd be happy to show you these e-mails. [[But I believe you. I believe you very much. With 100% certainty...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[I just didn't get one. Not all senators, but Senators of the Civic Platform.]] I see. [[Well, that's okay. I didn't get it. My friends didn't get it either.]] Good. Then we have an explanation. Now, let me get to the question. The question is this. We know that the Achilles heel of the authorities in Poland are general spatial planning plans and that very few municipalities have them. In large numbers and often partial plans are made, which is the subject of various kinds of disputes. In electoral campaigns, especially in local governments, very often there is a question of whether the authorities of a given municipality are subject to a developer or not, whether they have allowed housing to be built where the buildings are supposed to be. recreational functions or not. Whether this case will be resolved somehow in this bill, or we can witness disputes about the fact that housing will be built in some area where the auxiliary government or residents will want it to perform a different function, e.g. Recreational? Will such disputes be subject to real estate built in this system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u271	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u272	I'll answer your first question, Senator Rulewski, about the standard. This agreement between KZN and the operator will determine what housing is to be like, how it is to be finished, what their standard is to be, etc. Depending on the requirements... That doesn't mean, like the senator said, you're gonna have to run somewhere for water, because today's standard is that the water is in place. But finishing the apartment and all that... Well, that can be done in different ways. It can be done much cheaper, but it can also be done more expensive. And this agreement between KZN and the operator will determine what the standard of the apartment will be. As far as Senator Libicki is concerned about the spatial planning plan, so do you. We said, the stock will be introduced many properties, hectares. It'll depend on what area it's gonna be. In order to make any investment, however, there must be a spatial planning plan or conditions for construction or study. It's got to be to invest in housing. Therefore, without cooperation with the municipality, i.e. the council of the municipality which adopts the spatial planning plan, no residential investment can be realised. We may have land, real estate, but without a spatial planning plan... There seems to be some kind of gate in the bill, if I recall correctly, some kind of exception. But in general, if we don't have a spatial planning plan, we're not able to make housing investments. These are the requirements: in order to obtain a building permit, certain conditions must be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u273	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. [[I'd still like to... forgot...]] Oh, something reminds you of the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u274	Yeah, I'm sorry. Senator Rulewski asked if it would affect the real estate market at all... [[Yeah, for the developer's market, the construction market.]] It was about the prices of the apartments. I don't think so, because this program concerns people who don't have a credit rating. It's gonna be housing that kind of partially responds to housing hunger. There will be more apartments built, but these apartments will not be for sale. These people wouldn't buy apartments in the commercial market anyway, because they don't have credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u275	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Tomasz Żuchowski's meeting and we invite you to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u276	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would like to comment on the questions and suggestions made by the senators, but I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for providing this information and at the same time supplementing those which have fallen and which are After listening to these statements, I believe. A conspiracy of misinformation that probably snuck in. I would like to make it clear from this point of view that we have a sense of why this bill, what it is to give and what it has built. I'll try to say that, inform you of the whole thing, tell you what this system looks like. You've touched a lot of threads here. As far as the reform of the planning system is concerned, which has been started, the urban and construction code will include exactly how this planning system is to be carried out and these works are already, as we know, very advanced. This law on the reform of the planning system does not affect, so to speak, the adoption of local plans. We know how to invest today, either there's a local plan, or there's a wuzetka, whether he's building a developer or an Iksiński, whether it's State Treasury land or private land. On the other hand, we do not intend to violate the current structure of the legal system in any way. So we're talking about land that has local plans for the estate of the State Treasury for housing. We don't touch another sphere, we don't go in, so to speak, into any dispute, a regress with local governments. Moreover, all the investments that will be made will have to be And that's the original assumption. In accordance with local authorities, with their study and with the local plan. This is a sine qua non condition of the whole act, because it is a law for local governments, we also discussed it in the committee of the common government and local government and it met with a very big response and applause when it comes to the local government side. In the context of the wording, I look here at the senator. 7 and special purpose companies... Provisions in paragraph 1. 2 clearly states: special purpose companies only with local government units. As we know, they are designed to achieve a particular purpose. Whether it is, like today, a water supply, a sewage system or a sewage treatment plant, it will be the realization of housing investments. That's the algorithm right now. As we know, the local government doesn't have to, so to speak, make money, and therefore, by implementing such a company, it pursues the purpose of housing, it can't make any extra money on its side. It achieves the objective of the company being dissolved, that is the idea of this law, and that is the basis... It was also one of the first expectations of local governments that you could enter into these cooperations. That's another line. There was a question here about the financing of these investments and the amount for building a square meter, about what infrastructure would be like... First of all, we're not talking about any substandard, we're not saying that these are communal apartments, apartments, so to speak, social housing, housing of a worse category, there's no such thing. There are no regulations in Poland that say that you can build apartments of inferior quality. They may not be equipped with marbles, they may be left with ordinary smoothing, but the technical conditions which correspond to buildings and location are defined by one technical standard for construction, housing or public construction, the minimum ones, and here there is no possibility, so to speak, of any regression, moreover, to be notified to the European Commission. Therefore, here the so-called. There won't be a substandard. There were also questions about finishing issues here. As we know, today the developer, a business person, has two forms of execution of the investment: either under the key, according to the client's request, or, as many customers wish, so-called. the state of the raw developer. Door, often floors, etc. Everyone makes their own wallet as a resource. That's the model that's gonna be here, there's no other model. Another point I would like to point out is the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 6, which states explicitly that the National Property Resource is precisely the instrument which will, first, have the State Treasury's land, secondly, will not have it on the basis of the so-called. I'm sending the portal, so I've got it, I'm sending it further, but he's going to manage it, so to speak, with his head. So in item 6, we have e.g. Financing or co-financing, on the real estate belonging to the Resource, the implementation of the technical weapons of the site, in order to make these plots attractive. Investively, not to buy an empty field, just as you pointed out, and as we know it is today, because today developers often build in life, often in corn, often, so to speak, in a deep field... Even looking at the capital city of Warsaw, whether it will be Wilanów, whether it will be towards the north... you can see it for yourself. We, on the other hand, have a whole portfolio of intentions from the article. 5 we point out, knowing what the investment system looks like today. There was another question about the article. 51. Ladies and gentlemen, what does Art do? 51? Art. 51 talks about it. 'Cause there's been a misunderstanding here, too. That the real estate belonging to the stock... So not from the vending machine, because first there's a list, then there's an analysis, and then just looking at whether there's a local plan, if there's communication, you get these properties on the basis of both sides' consent. And here, as Senator Florek said, the voivodeship is, so to speak, a segment that mediates between local government and KZN. And KZN takes these properties from 3 entities, i.e. the State Forests, the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Military Property Agency. And the entries in the article. 51 in 5 points in paragraph 1. 1 provides that these properties may be available for other purposes. E.g. currently expropriated properties for public purposes. So we build a road, we build a railroad, we go into private areas. It's often like this, I've even met in practice lately... It was also my idea that we should be here in point 5 in lithium. a, they've typed in the delicacy. A man came to me, a farmer from the Łódź voivodship, who was taken away property for the purposes of one of the roads in 2011. And this man said this: Minister, I have the money in my account that you paid me, but I am a farmer, I would like a replacement property. And today you can't give it to him. And from the mentioned pot he will be able to get such property. We will ease the various conflicts that are today. And today, ladies and gentlemen, I have more than 2,000 500 cases, historically, which are unsolved for the sole purpose of achieving public goals. They concern among others. real estate taken over by the State for public purposes. And people often say this: you know what, I'd want this other cut, because I'm gonna have it, I'm okay with it, but I can't get it. It's either money or nothing. This is one of those points. Since I say so, we put in all the opportunity to dispose of the State Treasury's land, which will take over the national resource... So as not to cause an uproar of cases, often also judicial. At the stages of the implementation of the public objective investment, these land should also be available. What's more, when there's an XY... It will pass the area from the Military Property Agency, but it will be suitable for agricultural or forestry purposes, so that the other entity can automatically take it, with the consent of both parties. To make the flow of information work, whether it's a good agricultural parcel suitable for deforestation, forest management. It is also a matter of exchanging these properties for godly purposes. About the charges against the list... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me to imagine that the expectation of entities that have the State Treasury... That if I trusted someone, whether it was a car, or if I said so, another moving or still thing, then someone told me: you know, for me, it's a problem to tell you what I'm doing with this property right now. And today, of course, in this situation, we are talking to these institutions, entities so: if you have real estate of the State Treasury, say, first, for what purposes they are used today, what is their destiny in local plans, if they exist, if they do not exist, then you just have to enter... This is the norm in the records and basically someone leases and uses. And point out which of them are needed to achieve your goals, whether it's statutory or, in short, other contractual obligations. We don't automatically take these. The point is, so to speak, good news. This is the first case. And only in this second approach are those on which you point out that they have a residential purpose, that there are no sharpenings, at the stage of the so-called. the post-reception protocol, which was also said This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from commitments entered in Item 6 0 0 1 of So there's no vending machine here either. That's another line. In the media space there were also, as we know, allegations about any acquisition of these properties of the State Treasury which are. So I'll try to read you the article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which reads as follows: "The subject matter of the invitation to tender referred to in Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, is a real estate which fulfils the conditions for the implementation of a residential investment in a technically and economically sound manner, in particular, and here we have the provisions on what is to be said in such a tender. The following shall be added to the invitation to tender referred to in Article: Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, there may be no real estate, the location of which is: 1. in areas requiring the exclusion of land from agricultural production which is agricultural land produced from soil of mineral and organic origin, classified in Classes I, II, III, IIIa, IIIb, unless the soil of these classes exceeds 80% in total soils in the municipality concerned; 2) on land requiring the exclusion of land from forest production... Here we automatically do not even give the Regional Director of State Forests the opportunity to decide As it is in the Agricultural and Forestry Lands Act It's about the possibility of shutting down. Today, as we know, developers are building this: the local government is asking for a disabling e.g. 500 m2, even though it's Ls, it shuts down after a block of buildings and we build. We are simply saying: real estate, which would require even a decision, we do not take into consideration the tender. And there is a whole portfolio of other types of records: in areas of particular danger of flooding, landslides and areas at risk of land mass movements, national park area, nature reserve, landscape park, protected landscape area or Natura 2000 area, etc. So there's a whole statutory record that says straight away: these properties are not ticked, they're not going to be the subject of any kind of disposal at this point. Senator Florek also spoke of perpetual use. Ladies and gentlemen, why is this perpetual use, since we know that the government is proceding a law on perpetual use that will change this system and for people who have already built and live today are owners, then the transformation by law will take place? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, that law was deliberately suspended at this stage, so that today the State Treasury land would not be light-handed. Sorry about the colloquialism. The smart guys who would buy them for a specific purpose, but once they buy them, they won't have any statutory custody. Then we would bring the State Treasury's land to godly purposes... And here's the mechanism: we have disposals under the Real Estate Management Act, art. 72. 2... this is where the senator talked about the amount... So when it comes to the investor, at first we pay less and we can invest in the implementation of the investment. Then for a period of 30 years, when all potential buyers or tenants will be able to purchase these properties, it will be the right of perpetual use converted into property, but only then. We don't want to do this when most of the shares are owned by a private entity. Whether it's a natural person conducting an economic activity or a company Because then it would be a threat that he would chase people out and say, all right, this is mine, so I do what I want. At this point in time, we want to introduce appropriate provisions in the Real Estate Management Act, which will say this: after the implementation of housing investments on the basis of the disposal of perpetual use, it will be possible to convert to the State Treasury land in a situation where people will buy apartments into property. And at this point, we're gonna be sure that these people are gonna own this area, and no one in this area is gonna get rid of it, so to speak. That's why it's a mechanism. Now another aspect, which has also been raised here, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the interest of external actors or developers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the mechanisms that, as we mentioned, has no manual control. He merely gives further arguments that, above all, this today's real estate market should not be in one's hands. So either you have your share and you build your own sumpt, or you're waiting for a developer. Therefore, we are launching the State Treasury land. And looking from our perspective, but also looking at the profitability of the current investments... Because in the case of most developers' investments, for a good sale at 50% rate what is already gives the financial guarantee of the costs incurred. Therefore, we often observe today that there are buildings in which 50% were sold or even 40% The premises, and the rest of the premises are empty. So it's called. Cash the business plan, so to speak, compensated. Therefore, we say this: if this is the situation and we have the stability of investment, then let us do it in such a way that we will also bow to those people who cannot afford credit today. All right, behavior is purely market-based, except the legislator says this: Dear Investor, 50% Real estate, if you find a clientele for this, you can spend it on the same terms as you think is appropriate in market situations, but we ask you to do that by law, so that you can do the other 50%. , given the circumstances, for a period of 15 years as regards rent, and 30 years as an option to access property, held at the prices of this more attractive lease for people who today cannot afford credit. And it's not true at this point. Because we have these simulations and there will be a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers That this cost after the total cost of making such investments is calculated will be, so to speak, not profitable for the investor. Looking at the aspects that we have taken into account And that's, for example, what's going on? construction costs, restoration value of a given facility, average monthly remuneration, arithmetical averages, price of the land transferred... And looking at, let's say, the individual places that I can exchange at this point For example, since Senator Rulewski asked, Torun and Bydgoszcz We believe that after 30 years it would turn out that the price of 1 m2 would reach more than 4 thousand PLN. This is still the market price, and it turns out that the rent would then be at the level of 13 PLN with the option to access property and 9,6 PLN in case of rental. Therefore, this mechanism really defends itself. This analysis has been worked out by us very much, so to speak, meticulously and at this point in time it is in no way an analysis without coverage. Moreover, we also consider that it would be good for this state system to slightly double-digit, so to speak, the profit on the developers' side minimizes to a certain amount of profit and at the same time, which will open this portfolio of housing availability more widely to all Poles. Another issue that has also been very emotionally received, as we know, is the issue of rental. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 19a Act on the protection of the rights of tenants This was an article added in 2010 and is now a record of the occasional one. At this point, he says that this occasional lease may not be more than 10 years old. What are we doing in this bill? This occasional rental, as we know... Given that we are talking about the longer term, we are introducing an institutional lease because we also include an entrepreneur in it. However, the rules of this lease are not altered in any way. They are still the same as in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, which has been in operation since 2010. There are no changes here at this point that, however, cause evictions, throwing them on the pavement or the kind of situations that have been left here, so to speak, raised. As I say, this is probably due to some non-correlationship of these provisions in their entirety with the current legal instruments that work in the legislation. I think that was the whole answer to the issues that came up in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u277	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you, so that... Mr. Senator Rulewski, and then... Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u278	A few questions. What does the term "average" mean, and how will you define it? Do you have a income map for these people? That's one thing. Secondly, 2,000 for 1 m2... You yourself said that in Bydgoszcz, almost the cheapest city from the voivodeship cities is 3,000 850. Land That's what I can tell you because I was an investor. . So who's gonna arm him? Who's gonna add extra value so that this land doesn't cost more? Third. What will be the behaviour of the construction market, which all needs to be respected, and the private one, and the subsidised one? Will there not be dumping and destruction of the market if you withdraw for various reasons? And are your rent records just up to date? And the fourth question, which is a little bit related to Senator Flork's words. What's a lower standard than a developer's? What else isn't there besides the basement? Because they say there won't be a basement. Okay. What else isn't in this apartment? Sir, aren't you creating slums? 'Cause who's gonna want these apartments later? Isn't it gonna be like running away from a big album today? Isn't that a phenomenon, I'd say, demotional for cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u279	Thank you. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u280	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's a government project. Similar questions to those I would like to ask were addressed to the Senators of the rapporteurs, but since this is a government project, the minister is competent to answer this question. Please tell me what the government was doing by stating in the bill that after the eviction of the evicted person there is no social establishment. What were the reasons for such a provision in this Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u281	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: how will the rent be fixed? Only operating costs, which are to be a maximum of 10 PLN, have been specified. However, we do not know how it will have until the final amount that will have to be paid for renting this apartment. And my second question. National Property Resources... This super-entity's supervisory board is to be composed of the chairman... 5 members are appointed by the Minister of Infrastructure and one is appointed by the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and National Defence. So it can be said that the supervisory board will control itself, because the president of this company will be appointed by the Prime Minister. Why don't you want to do the competitions and get people on board?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u283	Thank you very much. Senator Duda is still here, and we're asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, will the land that will be transferred to the National Property Resources be used only for the construction of apartments for rent, or will it be possible to build the entire surrounding infrastructure on these land? And could they be negotiable if they weren't used to build these properties? May I ask one more short question, if the marshal may... [[The senator has 15 seconds left.]] Thank you very much. Answer me this question again: will the National Property Resources be able to participate financially in the implementation of revitalization programmes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u285	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u286	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! So to answer these questions... First line. I'll start with the last question. As far as revitalization goes, yes. At the session of the Parliamentary Committee, we also talked about it. One of the actions is the possibility of financing revitalization. As for land use, this portfolio is wide. Of course, right now. It is precisely the National Property Resources that I say, aim to make this investment land as attractive as it is in the Western countries. The plot is set up, the roads are set up, it is often divided into lots, and high-performance media are also provided to dispose of these properties at the moment. That's the philosophy. Also for single-family construction, indicating completely that such will be the demand for energy, for water, etc., so that, in short, the self-government will not leave alone with what will arise. That's the philosophy behind it, too. Some time ago, before I started working at the ministry, I was in different places. I'll tell you what. Visits in Western countries. And this is the model we would like to move here, because it turns out that it is very efficient, and in this case this form is too. As for the sale and sale of real estate, yes, this possibility is foreseen. In a situation where the property will be e.g. attractive location, let's say that in the center of Warsaw It's better to sell it to commercial construction. Instead, it is better to build tens of thousands or dozens of thousands of apartments than to build a three-storey block on Defilad Square. So, as much as possible, at this point... It's supposed to be rational. As for the next questions of Senator Rulewski, I explained earlier that there is no such thing as a substandard. There's no real estate... I mean. substandard housing. It's not gonna get any worse. Technical and construction regulations since 2002 clearly state that there is no segregation of housing on the basis of: for the poorer, for the richer, for the richest. The so-called standard. the minimum in technical conditions shall be recorded in the provisions. Therefore, it will in no way be worse. Moreover, in my view, it should be better than the one that is in many cases offered on today's market. There are no such assumptions automatically. What's more, like I said, These provisions require notification to the European Commission. We have also recently changed them in terms of investment simplifications, and in no way will this aspect function... [[What about the price?]] As far as the price is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism is Okay, I'll mark it. The following: the cost of building 1 m2 of the apartment according to the balancing suppliers of the market average, I will no longer mention the names of these entities, indicate clearly that there is the possibility of building 1 m2 for PLN 2,2,5 thousand, 3 thousand 200 PLN is probably with the garage, and this does not apply to the price of the plot. We, given these analyses, have taken this into account. And those prices that will be regulated by the Council of Ministers regulation may be amended on an annual basis if conditions change, but they show one It is true that today, based on real construction costs, you can go down from the rental price. To go off the rental price, in short, which is not going to be a 40% profit, is just going to be a one-digit profit. And at this point in time in our balance sheet it turns out that neither the tenant loses nor the one who buys the apartment on the market today, so to speak, the original without this support. We show the duality of these activities and in no way are they to be... I don't know. These people aren't supposed to feel worse, they don't have to say, be treated in some special way. This is normal construction, only that there are two aspects: we launch the State Treasury land and we show a mechanism that can function. In my opinion, looking forward now, if I were even a developer, I'd prefer to go into a stable investment system that shows me the path: here I have a certain profit, here... I'm involved with this property anyway, so I'm gonna use this profit instead of looking for a piece of land. Maybe I'll get here. Maybe there. And so to speak, a fast clientele... So for this reason, when we consulted this project earlier And he has been consulted with various parties, investors for a very long time. There was no objection. And yet you remember that at first there were fears that there would be a national operator. There's no such thing. The operator is everyone. And here at this point we have healthy market mechanisms that in no way discriminate against anyone, just show a little different game rules. And in our view, it is certainly not an antidote for all evil, but it will allow in two different ways that, so to speak, ranges to show that this construction is also for those who today earn properly and have a deposit and a loan payment, but also for those who are working today, say, under a garbage contract or earn 2,5 thousand and will be able to pay a rent of PLN 10 Because in this bill we also regulate that if a person who wants to be a tenant who likes the apartment, the location and neighbors will like it, he will say: all right, I want to move from rental to rental with an option, then we changed the property law of the premises. It will have full rights like the owner, such as I have today, having a mortgage, so she will have the same rights to challenge a resolution, to be a member of the board of directors of the community, etc., etc. So this whole mechanism here indicates equality between the parties. And here's the senator's question about the lease agreements. I don't see any record of the possibility of eviction on the pavement, as I pointed out at the outset. We have an art today. 19a talking about the occasional hire at this point, which concerns everyone... in the mouth. 1 is said to be 10 years old. Today we're talking about this. That's what Senator Florek pointed out, and the data was also shown. That we've got 4%. rental premises. Therefore, we are introducing a different name form that: if you are an entrepreneur, it concerns you with an institutional lease. We leave the same rules. It was entered when this lease could be terminated If I don't pay my rent for 3 months or when I'm disturbing my neighbors. These are the rules of the game that are, as it were, copy Paste with the current provisions of occasional rental. There are no other restrictions, so to speak, which have so far not been in the legal system since, I stress, 2010 in the law on the protection of the rights of tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. Yet... [[Excuse me, Minister. I didn't get the answer to the question.]] [[How will the rent be 10 PLN?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: Yes, yes... Sorry.]] [[Excuse me. And then there's the board of directors...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u288	I remember. Yes. I'm so sorry. I'll fill in the blanks. As for the board of directors... Dear Senators, first question: why such a composition? The first vocation, that is, in short, to start this institution, this legal person takes place as if from an automaton according to this algorithm that has been indicated. President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister-President of KZN... The members of the supervisory boards are representatives of the competent ministers because they oversee the institutions we are talking about here, the minister of the environment, because he has forest supervision, the minister of agriculture, because he has supervision of the Military Property Agency... i.e. Minister of National Defense because he has supervision of the Military Property Agency. Therefore, this algorithm is so targeted that they automatically know what is going to happen with the properties that will be transferred from them, it is happening that they will have an impact on it. As for the salary... There will be no horrendous wages, I think it will be symbolic. The Minister's Regulation will determine the amount of this remuneration. And here we were looking at, so to speak, quite pragmatically at the average monthly salary for members of the board of directors... the maximum... Here we are talking about some symbolic amounts that would be a reward. What's more, the point is that at the same time there's no such thing as I'm a member of the board of directors, so they don't pay me, and I'm actually sitting... The point is that these people are professionals and actually feel responsible for what is going to happen, because, as we pointed out, the essence of this institution is that there are really professionals there who can start the investment system. As for the rent... What's my point? The rent... Here I even have a model, a draft regulation of the Council of Ministers. We're based on the following issue. The first thing we've considered is the cost of building a square meter. based on the prices that are collected in the newsletter depending on the voivodship... And we also have a voivodship division. Voivodeship city. It looks different, too. in the metropolis, because it will look different in the capital city of Warsaw or in the metropolis, for example. in the Silesian agglomeration. Then we took the following things into the balance sheet: the cost of building a square meter plus the common infrastructure, the value of the cubic meter... the square meter restoration, the average monthly salary. Then the arithmetic mean was calculated, and then the price of a square meter of land was added. The costs were added up and then, on the basis of the sum of these costs, we made the assumption that banking costs are 10% , and costs related to commissions for the investor, i.e. profit, also at 10%. And we get real rent. That's the algorithm when you get the facts. Starting from the amount of 2,000, 2,500 or 3,000... it all depends on the location, on the price of building a square meter apartment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u289	Thank you very much. I'll just add one sentence. I wasn't interested in the supervisory board's salary, Minister. I was more interested in the fact that the board of directors is essentially a supervising body, and here its character is quite different. That's all I meant. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u290	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich, and then Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u291	Minister, I'm guessing our meeting is being watched very closely. You answer our questions very substantively. Since we got a whole bunch of e-mails, I assume the Tenant Protection Committee is definitely watching us. Then perhaps you can calm the citizens down. The first question concerns bankruptcy. The Act does not foresee what will happen to tenants without options in the event of bankruptcy of the housing operator. It is not clear whether the payment is to be in instalments, whether it is to be long-term or whether the entire amount due will have to be paid. That's the question we got. Don't think I'm a professional because I'm not. Second thing. There is information that the bill was put to the vote in the Sejm under pressure and during the unrest. It turns out that you must reassure the citizens, because in the letter we have received, there is this sentence: in view of the above, we ask the Senate at least not to accept the amendments to the article. 119 concerning the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants in the form and non-institution leases adopted by the Sejm. However, citizens notice that there may be problems here that they are afraid of. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u292	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first question. What are the assumptions about the number of apartments built within 10 years? I'm asking because I think some simulations were being conducted. Second question. Next year, the REITs are coming in. It's about commercial rental. As I hear, there is also planned housing rental in the REIT system in Poland. Could the National Property Resources enter the REITs, so to speak? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u294	Thank you very much. Senator Duda is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u295	Thank you. I'd like to ask you something about Senator Stanisławek's tone. In 2017, there will be 25 million. Do I remember correctly, Minister? In 2018, there will be 125 million and 50 million in 2019. I'd like that to put on senator Stanisławek's question. How many of these apartments are there gonna be? In my opinion, and not just me, including the people I've talked to, it's not enough to do all this, especially with regard to infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u296	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u297	I'll answer that. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Let's get to the questions. The first point is that the pressure has actually been raised. I have also read various kinds of statements and information given in recent times, especially by one of the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure everyone here that there is no mechanism, so to speak, to throw people out on the street. Moreover, I would like to stress that these investments, these apartments are not social housing, these are not communal housing. We have a social housing bill that you signed last time the president signed. We were talking about building 30,000 apartments. It's not a community resource. Here are the rules that show that we have the rental mechanism that functions in the system today. In short: you rent an apartment occasionally from a natural person, you rent an institutional apartment from an entrepreneur who has 10 apartments. The rules shall be described in accordance with Article. 19a Act on the ownership of the premises and speak directly when the contract can be terminated. There are three aspects here, I'd say, short-term. You're using the place in an unauthorized way, man, and you're making it out of it, so to speak, club, gym or whatever, and you're not paying rent, so we can settle the deal with you. Or do you go beyond my home, make yourself uncomfortable with your neighbors, or are you intrusive, or are you a bully? At this point, we're pointing out... we're moving these resolutions... It's like you're renting your own apartment. We are simply saying: in these three cases we can terminate the contract at this point. And these conditions are only transferred. And once again, let me make this clear: we have divided the occasional rental by a line that works today. In the case of a natural person, it is called an occasional hire, and the person, so to speak, is an institutional hire. [[What if the operator fails?]] If this is about the operator's bankruptcy, this is... We've secured this bill so that this bankruptcy of the operator doesn't affect those who buy these premises. [[Exactly.]] Recently we have heard that one of the banks has fallen, and so even people who have become the owners of the apartments have to give them up as part of compensation for others, so to speak, obliged persons. In this situation, everyone will automatically have this collateral in the form of a contract. And that's what this National Property Resource is after, too. So that he would watch these situations so that it wouldn't happen... that it wouldn't be said that you made a bill, you left the land, and today we have sacrifices. We don't want that. And that's why it's the philosophy of this National Property Resource. About the senator's question... The first concerned the so-called REIT law. As we know, it operates in Western countries. As far as I'm concerned about today. Yesterday there was also a discussion in the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers There are still various reservations about this law. This is the Real Estate Investment Trust, which deals with the positioning of entities that are currently engaged in renting apartments. In turn, à speaking of tax matters... Surely the National Property Resources will not be such an entity, because he will not be a tenant. He's just gonna be the middleman on the deal. So let me put it this way, that rent from the lease is ensured that people are sure of these 15 or 30 years according to their form. And at the same time a distributor, a guardian of the State Treasury land. The point is not to let them be put in the wrong hands. That's his role. If this law were to enter into force, depending on the circumstances, those housing operators would at that time be those who could benefit from the Investment Funds Act. It's about tax exemptions or CIT exemptions. [[There's a number...]] As for the number of apartments, ladies and gentlemen, here is the question... Here, too, we were wondering if we could do any fitting. And we've come to the conclusion that as long as there's no real estate listing on the table, and at the same time we're not going to have meetings with local governments, we're not going to see what the local interest is... Because we don't want to do it, as it was said, on the basis that it shows up in the TV room that something was built. They're supposed to be real needs. And I think when we see this list, when we talk to local governments, I've also scheduled a meeting with the voivods tomorrow to show them how it's going to work. And then, I think, at the turn of the year, we could say, see, we have this and this real estate potential, that's all we can invest right now. Moreover, there is a consensus of local governments; demographic aspects show that this will be adopted. But they're for development... And I think that's the kind of information that we're going to come out of when this bill works and when we're really going to be able to determine the potential and opportunities that this National Property Resource has.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u298	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Your statements point to a high degree of substance and calming effect on us, listeners. I have a quick question. Will the land of this real estate resource be able to be created e.g. Kindergarten or daycare? 'Cause that's also part of some infrastructure. That's the first question. And the other. Why do you think there was such concern from the State Forests about the transfer of land to this resource?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u301	Minister, I think you're aware that there are no such apartments today because it doesn't pay, because the rental pension is so small that outside a dozen cities where you want to rent 40%, I don't know how... In the others you won't beat, because there is like dumping; the investor added and that's why new apartments aren't being built. But that's the question. As you intend in this pension economy, i.e. while maintaining some pension, to solve this problem, including the second auxiliary... Wouldn't it be that the apartment Let's take your assumptions. They will indeed be cheap in Pelplin, but... Why is Warsaw expensive? That's not the only reason... It's the same building, built from the same raw materials. It's expensive because there's a place to work, because there's a lot of money here. You want to build cheap apartments in Pelplin, and people from Pelplin to Warsaw will go to earn money. Yes? Is that the plan? [[Voice from the room: And this isn't the Bishop...]] And the bishop is... They say he's actually right and he wouldn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u302	But the question was? Was there a question? [[This Pelplin...]] Good. Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is a very important question for me. I'd like to know your opinion, see if that's how it's supposed to look. Because Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has selected a property The thing is happening in Lower Silesia; maybe I won't tell you exactly where To make an investment, i.e. to build a housing estate, under this scheme. The municipal authorities say, after consulting the bank and not only that it is a huge problem for them when it comes to infrastructure, i.e. kindergarten, school, commute. I'll remind you, and if I didn't tell you, this town has 1 000 500 inhabitants, and after building this estate, It's supposed to be single-family houses. Another 1 thousand 200 inhabitants will arrive. Plus, the infrastructure is absolutely unprepared, but that's not even the point. Of course, the municipality welcomes the fact that such a settlement will be built, only that it says that there are other land and that it can be built somewhere else, not in this village Tyniec Mały. Do you know what I find most appalling about this? That Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego buys it from a private owner. The question is, is this how it's supposed to look like the bank's gonna be typing a private owner's plot rather than all the land? 'Cause I think there's something wrong here. I don't know what you think, but I think this is some kind of weird procedure in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u304	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u305	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Answers to the senator's questions. Yes, when it comes to building this kindergarten infrastructure, kindergarten, it is. We discussed this even recently at the Parliamentary meetings. We explained that all the infrastructure that served the citizens... In short, the point is not to get the apartment or get it in one or another formula and look to the right and to the left, it will turn out that they are far away and are doomed to... so that these aspects are absolutely. As far as the State Forests are concerned, that is a matter in my view. I quoted this article. 58.. misunderstanding the entire bill. Even this was presented by Senator Flork in the context of the fact that there is a list... Someone might have thought, "They take everything from the vending machine." We've been pointing... First of all, there's no vending machine here. We want that list... I think this is a good opportunity at this point for a certain conscience check for all actors. In short, they can refresh these archives, see how this land management of the State Treasury takes place. Whether it will be the institutions, so to speak, in the formula of the agencies supervised directly by the government, whether it will be the local governments that have these foundations of the State Treasury, they will be able to air out these archives, see how it looks, whether the subordinate officials are really monitoring it meticulously. Like I said, there's no vending machine here. I think these records Today I quoted to you the text of the article. They say that we do not dispose of these properties, they give a clear indication that forests, wooded areas, bushed areas are the ones that have the Ls designation and had to be excluded from forest production. They will not be disposed of. Another question. Concerns about controlling these prices etc. I'm afraid I wouldn't have to worry about the fact that... let's just notice one thing. If we have one player, one tycoon, one supplier, whether it's energy or cell phone, or whatever, he dictates the terms. Then we have such prices, not other prices, we are doomed to them. In this situation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're 100%. Convinced that such an idea one to one, so to speak, is coming true. We show a full portfolio of actions, which above all indicate the price. Thanks to this price, actually balancing all the costs today, moreover, thanks to the possibility of profit deriving from this second formula Of 35% or more but not more than 10% We are able to give the potential clientele this second offer. In my opinion, this is also attractive for those entities that are building today, because clientele with a wealthy wallet is slowly ending. We're showing that... okay, maybe for a while. she will still be, but let's also open up to those who, for example. Today they don't have 20% on their own so they can buy an apartment on the trunk. And let's go into the second market mechanism, which will clearly show that paying a certain rent... This is where the charges were made that in the case of Warsaw... According to our calculations currently in the capital city the price for 1 m2 would be at the level of 19 PLN. And it's real to achieve. It is real if we are, of course, based on the whole cycle of construction and implementation of investments. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but the Minister hasn't answered my question.]] I'll answer the senator's question. It was about... [[Why...]] [[In Lower Silesia...]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Why Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego...]] About the Bank of National Farms... Ladies and gentlemen, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego... It's BGKN now, isn't it? But before that, much earlier, because in 2012, the BGK implemented its philosophy, you can go to the BGK website. And he was involved in buying apartments from developers and selling them at commercial prices. In the commercial market, as we know, the Commercial Companies Code is in force, so it's profit-oriented. BGKN, which is also indicated here, does not work on any statutory tooling And here we have some rhymes. Acting, it is based only and exclusively on market mechanisms that are today. Therefore, as a commercial entity, it has the right to search for a suitable location, find a partner for the investment and together with it define a certain construction standard. And as indicated by the government, BGKN is to carry out piloting to show whether today Assuming that it is based on market mechanisms, legal tooling; in short: you buy property, build, maybe you can play profit, you can build apartments cheaper, more accessible. So that there is no way to suggest whether in the context of the earlier BGK or the current BGKN, any policy-driven actions. These are purely commercial activities, but carried out in such a way as to show that it is possible to build in a different form than before. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question? I'm sorry, but this is important to me. One last time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u306	There you go, of course. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u307	Minister, in that case, let me ask you clearly: what is the estimated value of the costs associated with the acquisition of real estate from individuals? Do you have it calculated in this project? That's the first line. Second line. You didn't answer my question. If the council of the commune, the mayor, everyone in the village says they don't want it there. Even though it's private land There's no infrastructure, no nursery, no kindergarten, no school, no bypass... Will it still be built? Do you have any influence on this, so that this kind of thing doesn't... Will anyone listen to the voice of the citizens who live there? There are other land, more accessible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u308	We're listening to citizens. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u309	Mr. Senator, it is difficult for me to refer to this individual case, because, in short, I do not know it, but when it comes to the drafting of this bill, we do not intend in any way that, so to speak, to have the grounds of individuals or individuals who would be bought in in any way. As I said, this legal person will not be an entity acting under the slogan "buy cheaper, sell more expensive," or let's exchange, but only pursue specific objectives, for which it is called. And as I pointed out at the beginning of the article. 51, she has a much wider structure, so to speak, to pursue these objectives in terms of the exchange of real estate, the land of the Treasury, in order to manage them well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u310	Thank you very much. Who else? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u311	Sorry, that's the last question. I have experience in this MdM and other... Sir, the cheapest apartments that are, the ones where rents are low, are the apartments in the secondary market. That's what MdM showed. They've gone violently. That's another question. Will this law cover its radiance of housing, which is very, very uninhabitable, beneficial for middle-income people, including young married couples, located at the existing infrastructure?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u312	Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? [[No, no.]] [[Senator Czerwinski, this is...]] That's right, 'cause I wrote it down... Senator Czerwinski, excuse me. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, this institutional lease raises concerns. You said that there was some kind of division of the old occasional rental into rentals by individuals who are not engaged in business in this area and by natural persons who operate and institutions, and that the rules are symmetrical in this respect. Only that in the case of natural persons at least as regards occasional rental It is clearly advisable for the tenant to provide an attestation that he will be able to live elsewhere at the time of leaving this rented place. Well, let's call it a rescue address. It's kind of a hindrance, but at a time when he's actually thrown out of the premises, it's also a security for him, and at institutional hire it's not there. Is that an oversight or a deliberate unbalance? Please explain if it's intentional.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u314	Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u315	Then I'll answer the senator's question. As for the comparison of these two things, occasional rental and institutional rental, this mechanism, as we pointed out at the beginning, is based on mirror division. With an institutional hire due to the fact that this applies, as we have said, to entrepreneurs wishing to enter this system, we have not put in place this mechanism to indicate a different location. This is a lease. Right here, right now. Like we said, people change jobs a lot. This is a portfolio of apartments for people who today live in the village X, and tomorrow they will live in the village Y. The point is not to do this at the very beginning of the municipal project. We're clearly pointing out that this is a rental like I'm renting a car. I rent a car from you for a certain time, in a certain formula. It is of course, so to speak, the rental period we agreed on, and there are these three conditions. If I use it outside the scope of the contract, if I use it unauthorizedly, if I sell it to someone else or rent it, then you'll automatically have the right to say, man, I'm taking this car away from you. The same mechanism is here, so that it is possible to effectively indicate the tools that can be used. If we were to arm this system with all kinds of incentives at the outset, saying, if you want to rent, you have to do 15 steps, in our opinion we would scare away both potential tenants and those who would like to rent in this system. If it turns out, as this law starts to function, that such or other conditions require correction because of what has not yet been possible to predict, then of course we will do so over time and, so to speak, education, how this system works, correct, so that, in short, it will work more efficiently. And then there was the question... [[I guess it wasn't there anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u316	I don't think it was anymore. Thank you very much. I understand there are no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[I...]] Okay, here you go, but you should have signed up. [[All of a sudden, Mr. Marshal...]] Suddenly? We've been discussing this for two hours now, Senator. It's suddenly? There you go, Mr. Senator speaking in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I listened to the Minister. I will speak briefly because I would like to refer to how many of these apartments can be built in the near future, and this question has been raised. The Minister said it's difficult to answer them right now. As far as spatial planning is concerned, the coverage of these plans is approximately 30% in Poland. And now let's consider what is in these plans, how many areas are there for housing, high construction, low construction, etc. All this is covered by the invitation to tender which the Minister referred to as Art. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 because we have to choose this operator, who will tie up with us for 15 and 30 years and watch over all of this. In the event of bankruptcy, someone else must replace him, and therefore the subject of the tender is important. So it's art. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says what may be the subject of the tender. It may be a property which is intended for construction in a local spatial planning plan, has access to technical infrastructure... And you could go on with these points. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be difficult to find properties that meet all these conditions. It's gonna be hard... We'll see if there'll be operators after the first tenders. First of all, we can probably count on developers to be interested in it, but after all, it could be a natural person, it could be anyone who comes forward and starts in such a bid. That's why I told you, and that's why I applied... Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we can hope today, okay, we can hope that this program will pay off, that it will move, but from how quickly we can figure out at the moment, it's probably going to be possible to build a small number of apartments. In some places it will be real, and in some it will not be real at all. I can tell you that I know what kind of real estate is in some cities, just those institutional, state-owned ones that are run by the seniors or city presidents. In a few cities, I'd see that. I know these areas, and as I look at it, I don't see areas where housing can be implemented quickly, so I don't see that there is an armed area, that it's in the spatial planning and that it can be realized. There's probably places like this, they're definitely in Poland, and somewhere these investments are going to be realized. However, we all want one thing: that this lease, which is very common in other countries, especially in Western countries, should definitely increase. Therefore, I am convinced that this bill will not meet our expectations, it will not be what we would like for this bill to come out. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to conclude that this statement is no longer to be renewed, I will say that, of course, if you pass this vote, we will observe the success of this bill. And I'll probably be sorry again next year when I stand in that bleacher. And I've already got some of the points I've been talking about, and I know what the results are. I will tell you again here that 1 000 or 2 000 apartments have been built in the country in connection with this law and no more. And we really want something else. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Robert Mamątow has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Minister, thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print No 570 and the report of the Commission In print No 570 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination adopted by the Sejm on 20 July 2017 on the amendment of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. Mr. Marshal sent us a letter on July 21st. We considered this law at yesterday's meeting and, after a brief discussion, we adopted a proposal to pass to the High House a request for adoption without amendments. This law is urgently needed because it introduces rules that enable the disease to be eradicated by African swine fever. This is expected by farmers, especially since it facilitates particularly in the danger zone, the area where African swine fever occurs, sanitary discharge, improves many activities, as well as introduces provisions that require farmers to carry out bioinsurance, as well as those involved. So, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u320	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Ewa Lech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the Government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: If you have any questions.]] [[No questions.]] I mean, as the Minister wishes. [[There isn't. There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: But good subject.]] [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: If necessary.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u321	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the minister of this situation, because we have fresh information that another outbreak of ASF virus has appeared in Lublin, and in this campfire is almost infected. 2,000 pigs. This law is supposed to help solve this problem, but I have a question: will this action in any way help solve this problem? Aren't you afraid, Minister, that the next steps, including this law, will not stop the spread of this disease in any way? And this is what farmers are asking me, especially from southern Wielkopolska, where pig farms are important elements of production on farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u322	Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is precisely this amended law, we hope, but it will improve our actions. She actually introduces new responsibilities, bans and warrants. If they are enforced, we hope and we are even sure However, they will have some effect. These new orders mainly concern the firing of health devices and the cooperation of certain entities in the conduct of this firing. There is, for example. the possibility of carrying out sanitary fire in protected areas, i.e. national parks, in reserves and in shelters of protected parks. It's been impossible so far. At the same time, I would like to say that this does not only apply to ASF, but to all infectious diseases, among others. flu. As far as ASF is concerned, here we have a problem mainly with wild boars. In the assessment of farmers and the environment of pig farmers, wild boar is not effective This is the result of farmers' observation. In their opinion, we do not have good information on the density of boars in Poland. That is why we introduce certain sharpenings and duties for hunting circles, for the Polish Hunting Union, which will be obliged to pass on, among others. reliable information on the number of animals. The point is that you can plan a clean-up fire at the right level. We also introduce an obligation for hunters, similar to the one that has been with farmers so far. If they find a dead boar, they must first of all notify the district veterinarian, as well as protect the wild boar from animal and human access. So that's the basic means. The main reservoir of the virus is wild. And that's where we're headed. Of course, we are aware that the concerns of other large producers, especially in Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Wielkopolska, are very large. We are doing everything we can to get this bill to help us, however, by extending the catalogue of duties, to combat the disease. There is also the possibility in this law, but, of course, as a last resort, that a district veterinarian or voivode will be able to ban local law in a given area of breeding and breeding of susceptible species. It's gonna be a last resort, but it's gonna be a possibility. So I think that's the answer to the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u324	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has made a speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Act on Tax Administration, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 573, and the report of the Commission In print No 573 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u325	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The project we discussed yesterday changes three laws. These are, respectively, the Law on Tax Administration, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on National Tax Administration. There are four shifts. Two amendments are introduced in the first amended law, i.e. in the tax administration. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14b §5c clarifies the issue of individual interpretation of tax law. If such an interpretation was previously made by the head of the National Tax Administration, then the Director does not have to do it again, only uses previously issued information, of course after removing the individual data it contains. Second amendment, in Article. 43, it is that the provisions concerning the Register of Revenues are supplemented. The clarification is that there is a possibility of entrusting the holding of the Register of Tax Accounts to a body of the National Tax Administration other than the head of the National Tax Administration. This regulation has been in force for several days, and precisely since 1 July of this year. Another third amendment is the amendment introduced by the Public Finance Act. It is based on the fact that in some cases 3 such cases shall be excluded from the application of Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. These are, like I said, three kinds of financial activities. And if the amount of PLN 100 million is exceeded... there is a proposal to exclude this opinion. Why? Some of these financial activities must be carried out very quickly. Sometimes we even talk about hours or minutes, and therefore there is virtually no possibility of obtaining such consent. That's why there's a proposal here. The fourth, last amendment concerns the amendment of the Article. 259 of the National Tax Administration Act. It is proposed here that the budget for National Tax Administration should be allocated in the state budget only for 2019 and not, as has been the case so far, for 2018. These are the amendments that are to be tabled. It was discussed at a committee meeting by the Legislative Bureau. The Legislative Office has tabled 2 proposals for amendments. These are amendments ordering and harmonising the text which do not affect the substance of the submission. Two senators spoke in the discussion. It was Senator Czerwinski and Senator Klein. Senator Czerwiński asked about one of the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. As a matter of fact, in the article. 43 Paragraph 5 is inserted. And it turns out that in this article there will now be §1, 2, 3 and 5, and there will be §4. We received an explanation that this was due to the fact that there was a double amendment, because first there was an amendment and then there was an amendment. Therefore, §4, which was previously entered, did not exist and was repealed. That's why he's not here at the moment, and he's §5. The Minister replied that, of course, he was accepting these comments and that these changes would certainly take place in the next amendment. Senator Kleina spoke, said he was in favour of this bill, but he took over the legislative amendments which I think he was going to make. This discussion is over. President Grzegorz Bierecki has submitted a motion for a resolution without amendments. In the vote, 6 senators voted in favour, 2 against, no one abstained. The Commission asks the Senate to adopt this proposal... This concludes the discussion on the bill. To be precise, I would add that after the vote, after the debate on the bill, Senator Klein asked you two more questions about the current financial and tax problems. He received precise answers and then the committee meeting was concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u326	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I don't see any volunteers, Senator. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Cybulski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance... Are you Minister Cybulski yet? You're welcome. You're Minister Cybulski. Welcome, Minister. Minister, I just wanted to ask you a question. On behalf of the government, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We are talking now, we are considering the law on amending the law of the tax administration, the law on public finances and the law of the law introducing the law on the National Tax Administration. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Maybe briefly, if I may...]] [[No, no.]] There you go, of course, but not from the point of view, you must approach the podium. You're welcome. The Senator rapporteur has already presented the content of these changes extensively, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government draft law on amending the law on tax administration, the law on public finances and the law on national tax administration is presented. The amendment prepared by the Ministry of Finance regarding the provisions of the Act. The tax administration assumes that the relationship between the Director of National Tax Information and the Head of National Tax Administration is organised by eliminating the need for the Director of National Tax Information to automatically direct the enquiries in cases where he has the opinion of the Head of National Tax Administration on the same facts as regards the strict avoidance of taxation. The regulations included in the draft introduce a rationalisation of the use of human resources in the relevant national tax information cells and cells serving the head of the national tax administration by removing duplication of activities in matters which have already been the subject of a previous opinion. Secondly, it is complementary to the provisions of the tax administration by means of a statutory delegation enabling the holding of a Register of Tax Offerings other than the head of the National Tax Administration to be entrusted to the National Tax Administration body. The new rules will help to improve the operation of the IT system, in which the Register of Revenues will be kept. The bill also provides, as here you have been informed, for changes to the provisions of the Public Finance Act to exclude the participation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in issuing opinions on draft contracts and unilateral legal acts carried out by the State Treasury if the value of the subject matter of legal activity exceeds PLN 100 million. The proposed regulation will contribute to improving the implementation of the State budget, financing the borrowing needs of the State budget, the management of the Treasury debt and the liquidity of the State budget, the need for their ongoing, immediate implementation. The draft law also provides for the amendment of the provisions of the Act on National Tax Administration in respect of the transfer of the separate portion of the budget of the National Tax Administration from 1 January 2019. This amendment will improve the functioning of the National Tax Administration in the financial accounting area and allow for the design of a comprehensive budget of the National Tax Administration for 2019 in a separate part of the State budget. High Izbo, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I request the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome. Minister... Minister, you have to go back to the stand because the Senator rapporteur wants to ask you something else. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Ah, sorry.]] Mr. Senator reported so extensively that the bill seems to have no secrets from you. And yet... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u329	Yes, it is. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, a question concerning the amendment of the article. 43. So far, until 30 June, these registers were kept by the chiefs of the tax offices and passed them on to the central register. Now that central register is gone, there's this computer log. And in this article. 43 is a record of the possibility of posting to others... the possibility of entrusting this activity to someone other than the head of the National Tax Administration. Who do we mean by "other"?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u330	Minister, just a moment, please. Senator Czerwiński will ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, I have a very similar question to what the predecessor asked. I'll make it clear. According to the Act on KAS, the bodies of KAS are: Minister, Head of KAS But in this case, I don't think there's gonna be a higher assignment. In addition, the head of the Chamber, the head of the tax office, the head of the customs and treasury office, i.e. the field entities, and as the only entity under the head of the national administration, is the director of the National Tax Information. It's just that there are no other organs. So, since this is where the catalogue is indicated, because the word "organ"... It could be reported that it is entrusting another entity And then there would be any choice. But since it turned out that it was an organ of the KAS... and at the same time these organs are 6 and in the structure under non-terrestrial is only 1, shouldn't we just put this director directly? Well, unless you want to create another body...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u332	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any calls. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u333	I'm not quite gonna agree that these bodies are 6 because the authorities of the tax administration are 16. So here is the possibility of posting this to another body. And at this point we have applied the proposal to assign this to the body, which is the body of the IRS in Szczecin as the one that is most competent for these matters and is ready to take over cases concerning the Register of IRS. Therefore, this is primarily dictated by pragmatism, but it is also legal and consistent with all the laws that are at the moment. So I don't see any contradictions here, at most it's just about the pragmatism of action, the effectiveness of action, the efficiency of action, and the fact that this tax administration is acting at the highest level. [[Thank you very much, Minister...]] [[Sorry, again, 'cause I didn't hear you. Who's gonna be that organ? What kind of organ is that?]] [[Director of the IRS...]] Director of the IRS... [[...in Szczecin.]] ...in Szczecin. [[In Szczecin, right?]] In Szczecin, yes. We assume in Szczecin. As that authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u334	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Minister, thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2006/22/EC as regards enforcement requirements and laying down detailed rules as regards Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU concerning the posting of drivers in the road transport sector COM ((2017) 278. I would like to remind you that this project is included in print No 576 and the committee's report In print No 576 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2006/22/EC as regards enforcement requirements and laying down detailed rules as regards Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU concerning the posting of drivers in the road transport sector COM ((2017) 278; print No 576. High Izbo, the draft of this opinion was drawn up at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Initially, this meeting would only result in an opinion which would be directed in political dialogue, which is to say that we have only paid attention in this first opinion to the principle of proportionality. However, in the course of the discussion, given the importance of the problem which concerns posted workers in the transport sector... Here I would like to remind the High House that Parliament is very consistently supporting the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Polish Government in order to ensure that as far as possible the regulation of the market does not affect the Polish transport sector. Unfortunately, at the moment these successive directives are sort of aimed at countries that do not fully represent as high an economic level as those of the old Union. We consistently oppose this, all the more so as the directive we are talking about can result in the collapse of a large proportion of road transport modes which provide services throughout the European Union. Therefore, in addition to the opinion we have put forward in the political dialogue, we propose to the High Senate, already as 2 committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Infrastructure, the adoption of opinions on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive. During the discussion during the committee meeting, Senator Oremski particularly drew attention to this element. Other senators also spoke. The guest of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union was Zdrojewski MEP, who also stated that in the European Parliament the Polish side clearly has one sentence with the Polish government that this directive will adversely affect the transport market in Poland. We have also been consulted by the Ministry. Mr Szmit, present at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, stated that such an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity could be a significant political strengthening in the negotiation process of the Polish Government during the negotiations on this Directive. Therefore, committees, both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at their meeting yesterday, as well as the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, unanimously adopted the draft opinion, which I am submitting to the High Senate and ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Richard Majer to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, did one or the other committee have any information on whether there were similar discussions in other parliaments about this type of opinion or not? Did you have any indication at all about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u338	Yeah, we had information. In the process... I don't think any of the parliaments have applied the yellow card yet, but Parliaments generally have until the beginning of September, so anything can happen. But one of the Benelux countries made comments to this directive in the political dialogue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u339	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Would a government representative like to take the floor on the draft opinion presented? You are Minister Jerzy Szmit, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of supporting Polish transport on the European market is one of the most important tasks that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has been taking since the beginning of our operation, i.e. since the elections in 2015. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk and we, the Undersecretaries and the Secretarys of State, operating within the Ministry, participate in a wide range of activities, both in the European arena, the European Union, but also in bilateral contacts, in which we inform and convince our European partners that a set of drafts, directives and regulations prepared by the European Commission is detrimental to the European economy, and in particular will hit countries such as Poland, but also countries in the eastern part of the European continent, generally in those countries where road transport plays an important economic role. I would like to express my deep gratitude to the High House on behalf of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk for the fact that the Senate has dealt with this matter so diligently and so forcefully today. We are in the process of negotiating the working parties that have been set up to negotiate the mobility package, and we can say that the discussion is taking place there on three levels. I'd call the first plane a fundamental plane. The question is whether, in general, these acts, whose projects have appeared in circulation, are in line with the general fundamental principles of the European Union of freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of people, capital and the provision of services. Well, we're saying that in general... There are several projects, but the most important ones are not compatible. Many times, we have expressed it on many occasions. And this Senate vote, as long as it is adopted, is, in this spirit, a discussion about the principles of the European Union. But there are two other planes. The second is the political plane, and therefore the plane in which we are building a coalition for such solutions and the final shape of these acts, so that they do not hit both Polish transport and transport, which comes from other countries of the East of Europe or the West of Europe. But also, for example, Ireland, which is also very close to our position... And I think there's a good chance we can build a coalition like this. There are several documents signed by these countries. There are still diplomatic talks going on, both in the larger... or in the V4 group or in other groups. Bilateral talks are also ongoing. A few days ago I had the opportunity to speak with the Deputy Minister of Transport of the Republic of Lithuania, who absolutely confirmed our common position. We have also agreed that we will try to encourage very often the opinion of experts in the course of the discussion, because they are clearly, apart from political contexts, objectively to show how harmful and bad these solutions will be for the European economy. The third plane is the ground for substantive discussion, and therefore this plane, where we are already talking specifically about solutions, about the consequences of the solutions proposed in the legislative acts being prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that we are in the process of being very difficult: really very difficult Negotiation. Large countries of the European Union, especially France, Germany, I think that unfortunately France is the leader here. They will aim to maximise the shape of these legal acts in line with the projects submitted. They were also changed at the last moment. I hope that we can, first of all, convince some of the countries that are hesitant and, second, strengthen these forces and those countries that, like us, are making a case... After all, it is not only a Polish matter, but it is really a matter of dozens of European countries. I hope that we will be able to negotiate a final form that will not be a threat to the functioning of Polish transport within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u341	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u342	Minister, I am very interested, also professionally, in this issue. I would like to ask if the Polish Government is considering going out with a compromise concept on what France or other countries are proposing on this issue, because we know that this is a very difficult problem for many parties.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u343	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr Marshal, we are in this situation: in general, the adoption of these solutions, these proposals of the European Commission as they are prepared today, would be very detrimental to the Polish transport sector. Negotiations have different stages. I think we are still at the stage where the parties present their positions, their rations and seek to justify these positions. The negotiations started in June, now there is a holiday break and will be resumed somewhere in the second half of September. So far these are discussions in the so-called. working groups, so not yet at political level, I would just say An expert, but also an official... maybe not an expert, but an official. We want to join this expert value. We have already done, among others. such work that the Institute of Automotive Transport commissioned and prepared a report by three economists: Professor Raczkowski from Poland, Professor Laroche from France and Professor Schneider from Austria. The report shows the consequences for the European economy of introducing proposals that are enshrined in regulations and directives. The report shows clearly... It deals with the concept of social dumping, which is widespread in terms of justification. This means that Poland and other countries consciously maintain a low standard of living, low wages of drivers in general in the sector in order to improve the competitiveness of our services. That's not true. Today, the level of wages is not a problem among Polish drivers. There are other problems, for example, such as the problem that we absolutely see that only a small part of the salary is covered and will be included in the pension fund, or in cases of medical dismissals or holidays. Unfortunately, the rule is that the minimum wage is the basis for pay, and the rest are different allowances, delegations, which, of course, has different consequences. And we're ready to talk about it. We're also talking about this in the country. For tomorrow, another meeting between employers and trade unions within the Tripartite Team is scheduled, in which we try to find a solution so that this basis, which is covered and, of course, also comes into the pension dimension, is higher. We also want to show that Poland is not a country where social dumping is applied. On the contrary, the government presents very concrete solutions that we are trying to lie to these opinions. I'm sure there'll be a time when you'll have to look for a compromise, but I think And that's the position we're presenting. That this compromise solution should be proposed by the other party, by those who today propose solutions that are unacceptable to us. And this is perhaps a strategy that will prove right. We'll see. 28 countries are involved. Britain gets a little less involved, but out of 27 countries, everyone looks at the problem a little differently. Some of the countries I am talking about have a very similar position, some have some doubts, and some have a completely opposite position, as the senator mentioned in his speech. One of the Benelux countries protested against these solutions, only that this protest is going in a completely different direction than our position. They say that, on the contrary, these social requirements still need to be raised, and they believe that this is the right solution. So we operate in a difficult, very complex environment and we need to find the best solution for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u346	Minister, I have a question for you. For some time now, the Union and some countries, Germany in particular, have been pushing Polish drivers to raise their wages to German rates. After all, these are Polish transport companies. These people work in Poland, except they're on a delegation. If they have the audacity to suggest how much we should pay Poles in Polish companies, it might be appropriate to suggest that in Kaufland, Lidl and many German companies also pay Poles who work in these online shops, according to German comparable rates. It's a short ball.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u347	Thank you very much. Minister, would you care to address this statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u348	Well, this is a statement that... the senator raised a problem that was repeatedly raised in discussions and political and publicist discussions, as well as in conversations that we are constantly having in our surroundings. I will comment on this as follows. Well, maybe I won't comment on what I'm going to do to give a slightly different dimension to that statement. Well, High Senate, the request made by Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, is the same pay for the same work in the same place. It is kind of a guideline to become a reality in international transport. Same pay for the same job in the same place. But if we wanted to answer in the same spirit and present the senator's thought, we would say this: the same pay for the same job with the same employer. And we can also introduce such a slogan to the political and publicist debate. I think national parliaments are a good place to just talk like this. This is the place where opinions are shaped, so you can discuss a guideline that talks about the same pay for the same job with the same employer. That's what it would look like if we considered the senator's voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u349	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When did the projects we're protesting come into play? Are they merely of a nature, I would call it economic, or is there any other basis for such projects? Is this some kind of repercussions, an answer to our actions or something?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u351	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The fact that various changes are being prepared, which will concern the transport sphere, has been mentioned in the European Commission, and not only has it been said. These were not preparations performed, I would say, hidden. It has been clear for months that such solutions are being prepared. We, as a government, attended various meetings in which our attitude was examined to the proposals that had appeared and were being discussed. We have been very consistent in presenting a negative attitude towards those decisions that were prepared there. This plane is not and was not the only plane of this discussion. The second is linked to the decisions of individual countries, especially Germany and France, but also to several other countries. These countries started to introduce a minimum wage in transport, which would include not only French, German or Austrian workers, but also those who carry out transport services in those countries. This is about the MiLoG law in Germany, so-called. the Macron law in France or other such laws. One attempt to stop this wave of fragmentation of the transport market was the proposals to the European Commission. The Commission was not passive and requested the Court of Justice to examine the decisions taken by individual governments in terms of their compatibility with European law and the European Treaties. The European Commission made proposals, but they were not ultimately... It was such a probing that unfortunately did not lead to a final judgment. Today you can say yes. It seemed that the draft regulations and directives of the European Commission, which will appear in the official circulation, would in some sense be compromise. Unfortunately, at the last minute, just before they were announced, there was quite a change in their content. As a result, what has been put into circulation as the official position of the European Commission is actually a reflection of the views of France and Germany in this regard. And that's why it's so hard. We're pretty serious. It's a very big euphemism. It's a problem. I'm talking about... Thank you very much for this question, because the answer to this question allows you to present the whole complex, really very complex, context of this issue. Transport has become a very important branch of the economy for Poland, which has not escaped the attention of the Western markets. Knowing that countries outside this old group of members of the European Union are increasingly taking over this market, these transport services are being carried out... It happened for them, as they say sometimes, with salt in their eye. German and French trade unions are pushing their governments on this issue. The President of the French Republic, who won the election, is the author of... It's not a random coincidence of the name. This is the law that the current President of the French Republic prepared and led. It is also a kind of political mandate and he will want to implement these rules. In this more difficult situation, what I say with full openness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u353	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Senator, come in.]] [[Senator Oremski, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[I'm short.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Bringing into absurdity Juncker's doctrine is about the same pay for the same job in the same place. It can be said that each one of us who is going to a delegation to Brussels should be paid at least as much as the MEPs. This is a bad idea. I want to point out that we're losing some lobbying stuff. It's not a matter of government. This is a matter of widely understood groups of entrepreneurs who should be mindful of certain things. Please note that where Poles enter the market dynamically, where we occupy some niches, there are successes. Such successes were certainly in the services market and, at the same time, I would say, a subset related to transport. Then you start the lobby of those who lose a little bit of it. They immediately launch Brussels, at the beginning often on a low level of government, and we later have such a problem that we still have to defend ourselves. I think it's a pretty big problem. This isn't just about transport. You can also talk about a few other situations where we found our niche and got our hands on it. That's the first thing. Second thing. We are in a certain political absurdity, because we can actually protest, negotiate or refer to the principle of subsidiarity, even though such decisions are often very bad for us. I believe that the interpretation of what is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity is often contrary to how common sense we understand the principle of subsidiarity. And that too, in my opinion, is a very big problem. So-called social dumping is a term invented so as not to introduce a single market for social services across Europe, which would, of course, be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Such harmonisation would certainly not be in line with the Treaty of Lisbon. In my opinion, it is very dangerous that in Europe the free market is replaced by a single market. It's some big yearning for the unification that I think is a problem. in the development of the European Union. And then there's one more element. The Minister did not mention this here, but at the committee meeting he spoke about a bureaucratic myth which will have to be met by the owners of transport companies, including all those elements which are social components in individual countries. Finally, I think it's a good enough project that the Senate should be fully compatible with it. The vote of unanimity will be an important element for strengthening the Polish government in the negotiations in Brussels. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-26-senat-46-1.u355	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft opinion. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. We're gonna start with the Ombudsman's speech and then we're gonna vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 28]]
