ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u1	And here is the treatment of the State Treasury to join the declaration just financial documents. And that's a statutory record. This is one of the pillars that will build the possibility of real analysis. 'Cause other than the fact that it's gonna be included... This hits you right now, but only some entities are covered by it. Legislative work is aimed at covering everyone. At the same time, it must still be properly configured in the system so that this information hits quickly. Because it's not about information about a particular transaction being sent to us in a month. A month is actually... Companies may, as part of such transfer and set-up criminal activity, have already transferred funds, there will be no more companies and there will also be no money. The point is to get this information early enough. This is the case in civilized countries, it is more or less so in Benelux countries, in Western countries. That's where these systems work. We don't discover any America here. The second pillar, which will allow you to effectively take... Here is the case of the GILF, the General Inspector of Financial Information, which receives the funds from the so-called. obliged institutions. These are financial institutions and banks. In theory, these institutions provide information, but now we need to look at what it looks like from the practical point of view. They operate on the basis of regulations. These regulations are so formulated that, let's call it, they create different interpretation differences as to what kind of data to be entered, etc. Besides, the Ministry of Finance does not have a system to aggregate and standardize them. Such a system must be so that this information can be processed in a real and fast way. That's why there's a proposal. so-called. the ongoing supervision of financial flows of economic operators. This is not a question of surveillance of citizens engaged in economic activities, but it is really a matter of getting basic information about how these flows look. This is a matter that is currently being worked on. And regardless of whether it is for the legislative authorities to decide that this real flow of financial information from economic operators is really... 'Cause I'm gonna say this isn't even a taxpayer charge, which is the one that runs the business, it's a bank issue. It is the banks that have this information and exchange it, only the problem is that authorities dedicated to chasing carousel crimes, massive fraud, there is no such information. So here we're dealing with a knowledge gap. There is this knowledge on the financial and banking side and they immediately exchange this information, and institutions dedicated to prosecuting such crimes and behaviour do not have that knowledge. And here's the issue of imbalance. So, on the one hand, the construction of a real GILF is such that we will have to deal with the information provided in time, complete and reliable information, and with the possibility of processing it and, on the other hand, the establishment of a central tax base. The coupling of these 2 elements will only give a system that will work and lead to the system being sealed. And this work is being done. We're also involved as someone who just sees... We actually do these things.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u2	The question is, Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, does the Central Anti-Corruption Office, having success in some place, in some institution that has managed to work out, apply such a principle that it also checks the counterparts of this institution? Let's say that there is some criminal activity related to, for example, a marshal's office. with extortion of EU grants. Whether a similar chain of links is checked by you in other marshal offices, or for example. Isn't that possible because of staff shortages? The same applies, of course, to other institutions, which, for example, territorial belongings are, so to speak, reproduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. The second question concerns the quality of cooperation between the Central Anti-corruption Office and other related institutions of the prosecutor's office, police formations, state security formations. Were there any new forms of cooperation developed in 2016? Does this take place on the basis of some kind of synergy, complementation? If you have a report, but for example. Isn't it possible for you to handle the case because of staff shortages or any organisational issues, that this case is being taken over by some other institution? The third question is whether there are any cases that have been postponed in time because of, for example, the fact that the case has been dropped. staff shortages, i.e. such simple reasons, although they should be implemented at a rather rapid pace. The last question concerns your situation regarding the operation of the Central Anti-corruption Office. Should decisive action be taken to ensure that, in the face of new threats and risks of criminal activities, the institution can somehow expand and focus on other types of operational activities? Currently, the government and parliament are taking various kinds of action to eliminate the current pathologies and criminal links, but they are likely to be different, requiring much more money and money from the state, and personal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u4	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u5	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to checks, what I'm trying to say is... I mentioned that control at marshal offices is coordinated control. In short, if, as part of the control activities, we see a phenomenon that is undesirable, which involves breaking the law or the possibility of something that could lead to a violation of the law, then this information is transmitted between the various delegations and this process is being investigated. The first example on the side may be the setting-up of producer groups, their functioning and then the obtaining of grants by them. This is a problem that appeared in one place, but in fact it was reflected in all others. In the context of other audits, it was decided to investigate the setting-up of producer groups. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the largest groups received a grant of hundreds of millions of PLN. I mean, one group, right? They were in different... I don't want to exchange now. Anyway, that's the problem. not only for the CBA, but especially for those bodies that are currently overseeing these producer groups, they are analysing the process of accounting for the funds they have received and used. Another example is the construction of broadband networks. There was also a control here, it was carried out in many voivodships. So it is certainly the case that the findings from one place are analyzed, passed on and often repeated in other places to see if we are dealing with abuse of power, with pathology, with crime, against the law. As far as cooperation with other services is concerned, a key partner in investigations is, of course, the DA's office. As you know, in 2016, there was a systemic change, and the Minister of Justice is now acting as Attorney General. What I'm trying to say is that she's definitely changed. It's a plus. The Central Bureau of Corruption and the D.A.'s office work together. Why? The Public Prosecutor's Office, ladies and gentlemen, is a hierarchically subordinate entity which is subject in a uniform manner to uniform management. The legal solutions that were adopted in the previous state of law were such that the Attorney General could not really manage this prosecution, which was built into the resolution of the statutory dysfunction of the entire organization. What was that all about? Well, the Attorney General couldn't control the prosecutors of appeals who were cadenced, and they also had limited ability to control the prosecutors of the lower units, because the district was also cadential. A legislative change has been introduced, according to which there is a prosecutor general, who is independent and at the same time has no budget. This is the first case. Second point This prosecutor cannot give binding orders to his subordinates, which is in fact a denial of the idea of the independence of the prosecutor general. The D.A. isn't a court, it's not like everyone's gonna decide... The court has the material that is given, is independent and has its way of functioning, while the prosecution must act within a certain hierarchically subordinate organism. It's always been like this. Certain decisions taken by the downstream prosecutors must be controlled by their superiors, and the superior has the right to make decisions on specific decisions, only to justify them. And that's very clear. During the previous legal situation, this was not the case, i.e. only appearances were preserved. In fact, we have dealt with a certain incapacity of the Attorney General. Like I said, the Attorney General couldn't cancel the submissive prosecutors. At the moment, the D.A.'s office is running smoothly. The investigations are being conducted, it's changed in a diametric way, and I'd like to stress that. ..co-operation.. between the D.A.'s office and the Central Corruption Bureau. I can tell you about the experience in my backyard, but I don't think it's just my own, because that's what you see in other things. So what I'm saying is that working with the D.A.'s office, although it's difficult and we can disagree on a lot of things, is based on partnership. Previously, we've dealt with situations like this that the prosecution has been communicating with law enforcement officers who are actually for... He was only communicating in writing, actually. They didn't see each other, they exchanged letters. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a state of affairs that is... I'll leave it to you without comment. In order to succeed in investigations, there must be synergy, there must be cooperation, there must be mutual understanding, of course also an understanding of the leading role of the prosecutor in the preparatory proceedings, which I stress. And here the change is diametric. As regards cooperation with other services, special services shall be coordinated separately. There is a minister coordinator, there are real weekly meetings, there is an exchange of information. There is also, of course, a transfer of cases in situations where a service is unable or unable to deal with a matter; it cannot, in the sense that it is too burdened. I can tell you that the Central Bureau of Corruption is actually very heavy. I'm trying not to drop any cases later, but, like I said, there's a lot of investigations, so I certainly wouldn't lie if I said that. They either go or are conducted in an optimal way and one that gives 100% satisfaction. It is not that we have no problems, because there are problems, but I certainly want to highlight the huge involvement of office officers in what they do, their professionalism and good, very good cooperation with the prosecution, which is a key partner in investigations. As far as the operational plane is concerned, there is also an exchange of information between services. This is also happening for the first time, Ladies and gentlemen, that we exchange, coordinate, we can share certain tasks. And that has a real dimension. When I came to the office, it turned out that there was actually no such coordination, and there was competition and actually disinformation between the services, which is a curiosity thing. I guess that's it. Oh, things new and new challenges. Of course they are. There are cases related, for example. cross-border crime. We have a case that is publicly known as Panama Papers. Here are some things, actions that need to be coordinated with services from other countries. We started working together, for example. with the Ukrainian anti-corruption service. This cooperation, which I want to say very strongly, is not a meeting, shake hands and mention cooperation documents. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that cooperation with the Ukrainian service is operational, which is also important from the point of view of the state of the Polish state. We know how difficult the situation is in Ukraine. But not just with the Ukrainian service... We have great relations with services from the Baltic countries, namely Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. We cooperate with our partners from the United States, from Western countries. There are international organizations in the forums we're performing in. Some of the problems with money transfers, tax fraud, money laundering, hybrid crimes, we are trying to solve precisely in international cooperation. I think it's a future thing that's a challenge facing the Central Corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u6	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I am announcing a half-hour break by 12:30 for the opening of the exhibition Red 76. The life and activities of priest Roman Kotlarz. [[Are we going to continue?]] After the break we will continue to consider the present point, yes. [[Voice from the Chamber: How many people are enrolled?]] [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] Time out. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 57 to 12 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the 10th agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations in 2016. We continue to ask questions to the head of the Central Bureau of Corruption, Mr. Ernest Beid. I'd like to ask you a question from Senator Zarin. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the preventive function of the current CBA, which you mentioned, is very valuable, important and disciplined, among others. us from such a perspective as the role of the state. As we have seen many times in times when you did not represent the CBA, only another person, Mr Paweł Wojtunik, this preventive function not only was not properly fulfilled and not raised in the rule of law, but also the person himself of Mr Paweł Wojtunik, one can say, remained in collective memory in such a context of a famous conversation with Minister Bienkowska, during which, among other things. Words have been uttered... I'd like to ask if the investigation has even shifted to iota on this issue. During this conversation, there were words suggesting, or perhaps even simply stating, that the Marches of Independence Not one, and probably all of them, were monitored undoubtedly with respect to human and citizen rights, and such a clear form of violation of the law was the burning of a booth at the Russian embassy, according to Mr Paweł Wojtunik, so people, as it seems, competent, by some decision-making process between the Minister of Home Affairs and, as I understand it, just the person who said it, since she knew it. Are those presumptions Because, in the public sphere, we stopped at the presumptions, they were further updated today as part of this preliminary pre-trial phase, which is part of the CBA's tasks? And there is, of course, a broader question about effectiveness. Since the CBA has a preventive role today, it can be said that in the future there will also be much greater effectiveness in catching civil servants, Members, Senators who will decide to enter the criminal path. What's been in the past, we can't reverse it, the past is what it is. In view of the lack of prevention, can you characterize on this or on a different basis, what is the effectiveness of prosecutions for those crimes today, in this case concerning violations of human rights and the citizen? It is similar in the case of the second case, which has already been examined here, but I would still return to it, although I understand that you cannot say things directly. But also from the catalogue of violations of human rights and the citizen, there was a clear issue of the surveillance of journalists, at least dozens of journalists. On many different issues, this surveillance of journalists was carried out and it seems that these were fundamental issues related to their journalistic work, rather than issues to which these issues were somehow connected. And everyone conscious knew that, but I understand that it's not always possible to say it directly. Third line. Namely, this report speaks, among others. the fact that in 2016 the system analysis of the statement of assets made by public office holders in 2009 and concluded that of the 600 customers of Amber Gold, which made the highest payments, had been completed and one in six remained unemployed. So she was, as I understand it, a pole. Can the CBA boast today about the fact that it already has a list of real donors' names... well, not donors, but those who have decided to invest their capital? And is there any further conclusion from this knowledge that, of course, would be of great interest to the public today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! As for the question of the role... and this already famous conversation with Minister Bieńkowska, this case is the subject of research and analysis. We've been studying it internally, too. I can't tell you everything here, because it's a matter of calling on certain sources. All I can tell you is that this circumstance is also under investigation, as I recall. Except the prosecution's investigating the D.A.'s office, it's an investigation of its own D.A.'s office. And also internally, as part of the audit procedures, this case was investigated by the Central Anti-corruption Office. I mean, we've been specifically looking for sources, and we've also made an arrangement on that. I now, at this stage, don't want to talk about it yet. And I can't tell you how this is gonna end. This, of course, is the role of Home Secretary to... Was there a provocation, or was the case procurated... This is a very serious charge, so I don't even want to make it right now. I think it's time for this case to be summed up in a real way. That's all I can say today. As regards the effectiveness of prosecutions and certain areas that the office has abandoned in terms of prevention, preventive function, I stress once again: the office has not supervised, analyzed and supervised in any way the key processes that have been going on by... Paweł Wojtunik has been head of the CBA for 6 years. This information was, but they either remained in the office at the level of the management, or, later, officers 'Cause they thought that information wouldn't really pass. They didn't pass them on at all. That was also the subject of our analysis. Not everything can be determined and made a legal response to it. We're dealing with some systemic omissions. And that the office didn't take care of e.g. The process of some sort of privatisation... Well, it's hard to make a criminal charge. That's the charge. about how to run an office, how to run an office. If there's no further information that something was intentionally abandoned or provided with any information that was available... In fact, the problem is that the office didn't have any information. That's the main problem. There were no procedures in place to follow certain processes. Part of the information was provided informally. And the office got rid of it very quickly, too. By ceding it on others Things that could cause trouble. An example of the Amber Gold case: all I can say is that of course, there was information, interesting information, also from people... information that should be checked. It ended with the fact that they were quickly handed over in writing to... e.g. One CBA delegation transferred this to the ABW delegation, say, Gdansk and the case was closed. In the formal sphere, the CBA provided information. But it wasn't deepened, it wasn't verified, it wasn't connected to the sources. This is a matter of omission. Of course, it can be said formally that they have responded. There's a source, the information's been handed over, the case is over. OZ It's finally over. That was a lot of stuff, wasn't it? And this is the whole sphere of omission and lack of vision of something you should see at first glance. In the case of Amber Gold, which the senator was kind to mention, the office did indeed deal with this analysis, in cooperation with the prosecution. This ended in 2016. Only that included some of the people, because they were just the people who came forward as victims. Amber Gold's case is being handled by the D.A.'s office and analyzed 800 cases of these... It was a very detailed analysis. And there were actually a lot of people, at least a few dozen of them. At the moment I can't tell you exactly how many, but dozens, maybe 60, who were unemployed and they just didn't have the right to deposit several hundred thousand zlotys. Of course, this information has been provided, as part of the investigation, it is still being analysed, processed. Decisions will be made by the D.A.'s office. 19 public officials were found, and two of them were notified, and the CBA had already filed them, and the prosecution opened proceedings. It was probably... a doctor, a soldier, and another person, but right now I don't remember who. In any case, the survey consisted in checking the income, checking the ZUS databases, tax bases, etc. So these people have already been scanned in detail. It's one of the elements of the action. Only that this action, Ladies and gentlemen, was implemented at the end of 2015 and in 2016, so quite late. The whole Amber Gold scandal started in 2012, and the deal took place in the previous years and at that time we had a complete lack of reaction and lack of knowledge on the CBA side. We've been looking for this... As I said, we found individual elements that were immediately passed somewhere else or finished here. It's probably gonna have a further dimension in the prosecution's investigation. As I said, it was quite common, as I said, to impregnate important and key information that concerned important matters or persons with high public, business or process functions, as I said, in the economy: tenders, privatisations, etc., etc., etc. Of course, it must be understood that the CBA, because it has only the number of people at its disposal, is unable to grasp everything, but it seems that over the years the CBA has been blind to certain important processes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u9	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At first, Minister, I'd like to... Because I don't think anybody's done it since the beginning of your speech. I would like to thank and congratulate these extraordinary successes when it comes to explaining reprivatization issues in Warsaw, because these are important things. My joy would have been greater if you had taken care of all the reprivatizations that have taken place since 1991 and if you had covered the whole of Poland, because this problem is undoubtedly contaminated by our entire country. And I will offer the same congratulations, and even more so, if you actually take such a control period since 1991 and this will be explained throughout the country. I'm going to ask questions now. You said, by the way, a few technical questions about buying dozens of cars for the CBA. Please tell me: how many cars have you specifically purchased and was this compatible with public procurement law? And now my second question, which concerns those 365 bugs. Did I understand that you only used 365 wirets? Because you said there were only 50 more pressing situations. Wasn't I wrong? And can these bugs last e.g. 24 hours a day? I'll move on to the third question. Because there's been an inquiry here, and basically there's information from Senator Ambrozik regarding your judge Żurek... I think that's the case. quite important, because it concerns a judge who actually sits in the KRS. And our House... Well, maybe not our House, but specifically the Senators of the Civic Platform have asked the Prime Minister for information on the breach of the KRS protection zone and the State's participation in an attempt to summon Judge Żurk. I'll put some questions on your hands. I would like to obtain this information in writing, because I know that the bureau of the National Judicial Council has already made such an inquiry and with a letter protesting your participation in this action. Because I will remind you that when it comes to the KRS protection zone, it can only be crossed during the pursuit or after informing the head of the National Judicial Council. You neither had to chase anyone, nor informed the head of this institution, yet you entered it. This is a constitutional judicial control body and that is why it is very, very important. I also want to ask you if you know that the day before Judge Żurek informed you, through his proxy, that in every... [[I'm sorry, Senator, but it's starting to sound like a discussion. Why don't you make the question concrete and move it to a discussion where there's no such restriction.]] But this isn't a discussion. I just wish the Minister would give me... [[Then speak more succinctly, because it's gonna take a minute.]] Okay, I'm almost done. I've already been at the stage, so to speak, conclusions. I'd like to say that Judge Zurek's attorney made a promise on his behalf that he would show up at any time. You got it the day before that action. Only asks you to state the legal basis of the call. Despite this information, you had to make such an entrance. And my question is this: is it because the KRS has become to you as if the opposite side Unfortunately, such a sad impression can be made. Didn't you want to take the judge to your seat? Then a few television cameras would normally appear, and we could prove... Well, then the world would be told that one of the judges was taken to your chamber. I may still be speaking in the next round, but I would just like to receive a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u11	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your congratulations. I would like to say that this case is not only about Warsaw. I already mentioned that it also applies to real estate in other big cities, in Łódź and Krakow. Well, unfortunately, it's physically impossible to embrace all of this since 1991, because these decisions have been thousands, and certain things have been long overdue. Nevertheless, we will certainly do our utmost to examine these processes in a reliable and insightful manner. Surely we will not lack either determination or courage. The case, like I said, will probably continue in other cities. As far as the judge's concerned, I've already talked about it. Well, the facts were just different. I'll put it in writing. It was not that Judge Żurek wanted to make an appointment and informed it by his attorney who asked us to state the grounds. The legal basis has been indicated. The attorney knew perfectly well what the legal basis is, and I don't think this sphere... First of all, officers were allowed in. This will also be included in the written reply. As far as these arguments are concerned, I would like to say that I do not see such a thing as the immunity of the National Judicial Council, which other persons, bystanders, cannot enter. These are public officials, representatives of the state, and they're doing their job, and they've been let in, as I said, into the territory of the realms, so to speak. I will refer to these facts in detail, but I repeat, the facts in this case were different from what you say, and that is essentially not the case. It looks like I said Judge Żurek was doing everything he could not deliver this statement effectively. He appointed a proxy who wrote a letter to inform him of the legal basis. After all, he knew exactly what the legal basis was. And then maybe he'll report for another call... Well, you'll admit that this is the treatment, most frankly, quite disrespectful. With us there is no theoretical state, but there is a state that is really functioning, and these are the officers of this country. I'll answer the details in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u13	Thank you. Let me remind you that the senator is expecting an answer in writing... [[Eavesdropping...]] [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau.]] And here's the thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u14	When it comes to wiretaps, I'm telling you. It's 368, exactly, not 365, and I could have made a mistake here, which I'm sorry about. 56 is called. mode. It's just that it's not a case, and once again, I'm pointing out some 24-hour wiretap. These are myths at all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The mode bugging is used when there is a legitimate concern about the possibility of losing some evidence, there are other reasons to use this bugging... I don't want to talk about the details, but this is a certain area of activity within the limits of the information deficit and at the same time the time. But it's not like the person who's under this procedure isn't known by name or by name. All these requests are addressed and described in relation to specific persons and, in addition, before this wiretap, in common, is activated by the service and before this procedure is applied, the consent of the Attorney General must be obtained. And after obtaining the attorney general's consent, the whole file And at the moment these files and justifications are extensive, because the material in the case is also attached to it from the vending machine is transferred to the court. And the court can say for the next day that... in any case, there are five days. There is no such thing as operating control without the approval of an external authority. If the court refuses to allow such a procedure, it is necessary to destroy the material and to disable the wiretap. And I repeat, there wasn't one such case. A year earlier... I can't remember the number right now, but there were dozens of these cases in 350, here I can tell, wiretapped. So it's not a procedure that someone's wearing a wire within 24 hours and no one knows it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u15	You ask Senator Slugocki questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you've been kind enough to diagnose some interesting issues. First of all, you said that the state doesn't exist theoretically, and secondly, you diagnosed that you cured the CBA's blindness, and I would like to verify your diagnosis empirically. I'm asking you a specific question... I am also impressed by your zeal, Minister, with which you spoke about the control of marshal offices in the context of the use of European funds. And now I ask you, with just as much zeal, with good eyesight and practically, will you carry out Perhaps it's already being carried out. The control of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which manages the amount of EUR 18.7 billion? I am only talking about the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, namely direct payments. And will you examine the fact that the system for granting direct payments is not working? You have not paid one million to 350 thousand farmers direct payments and, worse than that, you have not only paid this year's payments, but also farmers' and environmental subsidies from last year... [[Who, CBA? CBA gives, pays?]] Poland is facing a penalty of PLN 2.5 billion which the European Commission wants to impose on the State for the absence of direct payments. And, little less, you've even started paying some of the payments, only that's how you've been generous to some part of... [[Who? CBA gives, pays?]] ...that at some point... You weren't listening, Senator. [[CBA's paying off?]] First of all, it's unpleasant that you continue... to argue with me... [[Senator, ask, not argue...]] Oh, yeah, thank you very much. Take care of it, Mr. Marshal. I will, as always, be very grateful to you for such interventions. [[But the recipient should indeed be detailed.]] [[Don't be nervous.]] The address is detailed: Minister, because... why this zeal? I'm surprised to see Senator Mamonton... [[You have to learn a name when you say it.]] Good. I'm sorry. [[You're welcome.]] ...who on the one hand understands control in marshal offices, but on the other hand does not understand control in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Only that the individual regional programmes are a little bit in the balance of EUR 18.7 billion. My question... [[Next question, please...]] My question, Minister. We're going to verify whether the CBA is still blind or not, whether you're acting theoretically or practically, when you check whether or not you're going to check... And what about the penalty of PLN 2.5 billion? I'd like an answer, except for the one you're going to give me orally in writing. I'm asking you very much. That's the first question. [[First question.]] Yes. Second question, Minister, if you don't mind. Here, in the context of zeal, I will also rotate. I would like you to... also in writing, Minister, to present the following points to me. How much did CBA control at marshal offices cost? What were the deficiencies and irregularities found in 16 marshal offices, and what do they show? How many cases were sent to the D.A.'s office? How many people have been charged, and how many will be responsible in court for these irregularities? I would like to obtain a kind of balance of expenditure and the benefits of the CBA. And the last question in this series. What has happened, Minister, that the CBA has taken... what context has emerged that the CBA has taken systemic action in 16 regional governments? Were there irregularities in every voivodship, or did you receive such information, or was the inspiration different? If it was different, what was the inspiration, or practical, or theoretical, and who did it come from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u17	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u18	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the involvement of the office in key processes, I'll say yes. Last year, as a result of checks at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, information was provided on legal abuses and a reasonable suspicion of the offence being committed by this structure in the field of fisheries subsidies. I'm not going to talk about it in detail now, but these are multi-million-dollar losses detected by the CBA... And it ended with a notice. There's an investigation in this area. Of course, CBA runs them according to... with the D.A.'s office. It's about not being involved in ARiMR issues. If this is about what you said, I'm gonna say yes. The CBA, of course, is up-to-date on information systems... Like I said, this is part of our anti-corruption shield. They are not relying on the truth of your words that the system has stopped working, that it does not work and that the payments will not be paid at all. I don't know how you got this information that you're not gonna pay the payments... [[From the Deputy Minister of Agriculture.]] ...for farmers. This system works. [[From farmers.]] The case is that the system, which is in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, was written... created by an external company and is a matter of maintenance and development agreement. And there's an open question as to whether AriMR is going to pay massive money to a company that has rights, etc., which makes it dependent on this company, or whether it's going to take action to change this state of affairs. And, of course, ARiMR has taken action at the moment, among others. President Obejtek took such measures to take over the IT sphere in reality by employing programmers and IT engineers. And such actions have been taken, among others. the entire structure was built in Lublin, programmers and IT engineers from that area of Poland were hired, who are not as expensive as here. Not much, the situation is that ARiMR can now take over the maintenance of this system on its own. And it's really a key issue, Mr. Senator. Its maintenance and development. And unfortunately, it will end in the fact that the outside company will no longer have profits because of it. I don't know if you're asking questions about how ARiMR works, but I'm telling you what it's like. The CBA is up-to-date here, so to speak, following this process on an ongoing basis and being involved in the way you have said, zealously, I think with good effect for the state budget and for the functioning of this agency. So we do not lack zeal in this area. And I don't think they rely on the truth of your information about the fact that this system will, of course, cease to function. Such information may be sold by external companies that operate it, or by persons who say that an attempt to become independent threatens to collapse the system and not to give it up. It's a very simple mechanism. Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u19	The senator wanted to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u20	Yes, thank you very much. Minister, don't take such a stand that when questions are inconvenient, you suggest that someone misses the truth. Check it out. These facts, which I am talking about, date back to May 12, 2017. If you think that I am not telling the truth that by 12 May 2017, what I have stated was not true, then please include it in a written reply, and I will use it in a manner appropriate for me and perhaps also, in the context of the fact that you are accusing me of speaking falsely, I will use the legal path. That's one thread. Second thread, Minister. No, please do not suggest that all farmers have received direct payments. Please check the precise information you shared here, standing in the same place where you are standing, Deputy Minister of Agriculture. And he said just give me a hint, if I remember correctly... Wait till there's no... About 650 thousand farmers out of 1 million 350 thousand received direct payments, so you will admit that not all. And you will admit that... [[Mr. Senator, there are no questions in your statement.]] The question is simple. Minister, why are you suggesting if the Deputy Minister of Agriculture has given such data that I am not telling the truth? Because it wouldn't really be the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Is it true that the Deputy Minister of Agriculture speaks not really to the senators of the Republic of Poland in the Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u21	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! All I'm saying here is that this is... The problem is, you should know this very much. As far as I'm concerned, I'll try to answer in writing. You said the system wasn't working, right? The system's working. I was referring to the information you gave me that the IT system at the AriMR didn't work. Well, this system works. And the question of payment of payments... It was a matter of time-limits for payment of these payments. I only referred to the fact that it's not true that the system doesn't work. That's all I meant. I didn't accuse you of deliberately speaking falsely, but perhaps misinformation in this regard. If I offended you, I'm sorry. Repeat, the system is working. The problems with payouts are, of course, but it's not conditioned that the system will stop working.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u22	Thank you, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you. This is such a fresh case... It's about you joining the prison service today. I was a little surprised. Why? Because it wasn't that long ago that you stood in your place as Minister Jak and referred to us We even praised that and voted in favour of, absolutely, of the idea of the work of prisoners, who were particularly legal in alimony, which is a good idea. I even performed personally, praising and thanking you for this initiative. But I also said with concern: aren't there poorly prepared investments that you are investigating today? I have pointed out that perhaps too soon, so hot, the regulations have been prepared, which today are working against the Treasury. And the smart guys use it. My statement, Minister, goes in one direction. Isn't it necessary to verify, since you're already controlling the bill, all the regulations that make pathology... To conclude, I'm going to say that we're preparing things too quickly, they're thoughtless. I must also say with such a little sarcasm that you do not listen to comments, too quickly... and perhaps this state control results from this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: the idea of involving prisoners in the work itself is a good idea, a right one, a desirable one. The adoption of a legal instrument for this is also good, right, desirable, appropriate in itself, while the practice can lead this process in the sense that there may be dishonest people who... There is no contradiction between me and Minister Jak or the Ministry of Justice in general. This is, in principle, a good thing, but the essence is that we react when we notice irregularities. These irregularities have been noticed and are now sort of discounted in the preparatory proceedings. It's not like we're gonna close our eyes on what's wrong and really waste this good idea, deny it. I believe that this action shows that the CBA is not avoiding things that may be the subject of public debate. I believe that this action of the authorities, the formulation of such a process of involvement of prisoners is important for the functioning of the state. This should be fair, in short, and that's the only reason we got involved. [[One sentence. My main concern was the full analysis of the regulations, because there may be a gap there, Minister.]] I believe, Mr Senator, that these actions can also lead to de lege ferenda's demands, i.e. changes to the law in the future, changes to the implementing acts. It can be, I don't rule it out. [[Thank you very much. That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u26	You're asking Senator Klich a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u27	Minister, I will, of course, expect this detailed summary in writing, which we have talked about and to which you have committed to, regarding the results of the checks in all these marshal offices and in those five cases which have been addressed to the prosecution. In relation to what you mentioned earlier, I would like to ask for written information on the state of play regarding compliance with the law in the Polish Armed Group. As I said, we have very disturbing news from this large, largest Polish arms company. So that I ask for this information in writing. The Minister also referred to the role of the CBA in purchasing military technology at the Ministry of National Defence. I would like to ask how you work together with the Anti-corruption Office, whose role in the Ministry of Defence as Minister I have strengthened. What's the status of this anti-corruption office right now? What is your relationship with the other two services, which are responsible in the Ministry of National Defence for transparency and honesty in obtaining military technology, i.e. the Military Gendarmery and the Military Counterintelligence Service? This is the quadrilateral that serves to safeguard the transparency and integrity of these tenders. And second question. What is the state of the CBA's behaviour on the lobbying of the Nature Conservation Act, called lex Szyszko, this lobbying, which President Kaczyński considered inappropriate in his speech? Have you already taken action, and if you have taken action, at what stage They're about this untrained lobbying, and what have you come up with so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u28	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! If it's about the MON thing, the tenders, I don't have to explain it. It's a huge amount of money, a lot of implemented processes related to the identification of equipment suppliers, technology. Within the framework of the coordination of cooperation between services, a large part of the activity in this field and supervision is carried out by the Military Counterintelligence Service, for obvious reasons. These activities are, of course, partially consistent with CBA activities... I mean. I'm saying they're intersecting because it's not like we're doing the same thing. There is a division here. Our control at PGZ has a slightly different dimension, not to strictly control the procurement processes for specific supplies of weapons, equipment, but more to deal with the functioning of this large company, it is to control transparency, transparency, non-breaking the law. What I'm trying to say is that it's very good that the Ministry of National Defence has appointed a corruption attorney... [[The Bureau of Investigation.]] The law enforcement office, yes. We're working with him on a day-to-day basis. One could say that... I think it would be worth considering in the near future what information this person receives and when, from which of the various agendas, ministries, how he reacts. This is something that got our attention. In any case, it is good that there is such a person directly designated, because that is what we are working with, and that is what we are working with on an ongoing basis. It was, in my opinion, the right and correct decision. The point to agree on, as I say, is the matter of communicating information, the way they are transmitted, the way they are informed, because she is indeed our natural partner at the Ministry of National Defence, so that there is no problem with that. As far as orders are concerned, as I said, it is generally handled by the Military Counterintelligence Service. But there are also elements of procedures that remain in the area of interest of the Central Anti-corruption Office, because we believe that these are very serious matters, and spending on this, as for some systems, amounts to billions of zlotys from the budget, and because there is so much money there... I do not have to say here that these large companies, which are potential bidders, can carry out non-legal activities, and that is in the area of our interest. That's all I can tell you. Cooperation with the SKW in this area, through the coordination of the Minister of Coordinator, is working well. I think these two services complement each other in their work. Like I said, Senator, the case... [[But is there still an office of anti-corruption proceedings, or is his role still...]] Excuse me... [[Is this the office of anti-corruption proceedings, a multi-member institution, or is there just the proxy you're talking about, so the role would be reduced to one person's actions? I wish I knew.]] Mr. Senator, I can't tell you now whether this role has been reduced. [[Then write it to me, for your sake. Thank you.]] Good. But I'm sure this unit is functioning, and I'm sure we have a relationship with this unit. [[I'd appreciate it.]] When it comes to lobbying for a revision of the Forest Act... Yes? [[It's about nature conservation.]] Oh, nature conservation... I'm sorry. Allow me to reply in writing, because I can't deal with the details of this case right now. [[That's what President Kaczyński was talking about.]] I see. [[Yes. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u30	I think that's it. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I, referring to the previous question, in which I asked about the outcome of this several-hour Senate meeting, during which the government, ministers and Prime Minister Szydło said that before was... [[Voice from the Chamber: This was a session of the Sejm.]] Yes, the Seym. ... That there was a tsunami of mismanagement, etc. I would like to get a written reply on how much you are investigating these reports, how much you have started, how much has been dropped, how many charges have been made. I'd like to get it from you in writing, because I understand that you just don't remember it. And a minor correction. You said it was a shame that the CBA did not conduct proceedings or protect the privatisation of Polkomtel. But it seems that when he was privatized, the CBA was not yet there. That's how I feel. I also want to say here that you didn't exactly express yourself when it comes to wiretapping. Well, in an emergency situation, the service may wear a wiretap without the court's consent, but then there must be a successor's consent. It's a possibility. Maybe CBA's not here. But I suspect the situation here is uniform. And now the questions. Minister, you have listed a number of effective CBA actions regarding suspicion of serious crimes. And you traded SK Bank with Volomin. Right. But you didn't mention any SKOK. Although there was also a SKOK Volomin. Therefore, the question is: were there and are there any proceedings in relation to the SKOKs? A whole group of SKOKs fell and fell. The Bank Guarantee Fund has already paid about PLN 4 billion out of bank money, i.e. public money. What kind of proceedings do you conduct when it comes to the SKOKs? Do you guys even conduct this kind of thing? Well, I'm not gonna ask you why you didn't just name SCUK Volomin, where there was a scandal, after all, there's been a heavy beating of a government official, the deputy boss... [[KNF]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Committee on Financial Supervision.]] ...the Financial Supervision Commission. So that's my first question. The second question concerns the purchase by the Ministry of Defense of aircraft for VIPs. I think you need to buy those planes. But tell me, is it true that the FBI has signalled to the Polish services that it is conducting any investigations into this purchase? And whether, in connection with the assessment of this transaction for PLN 2 billion 100 thousand, the transaction contested by the National Board of Appeal, which concluded that this purchase was carried out in violation of the law, i.e. without a tender, I will not go into details Do you conduct any proceedings in this regard? [[That was the second question.]] So 2 questions: SKOK-i and purchasing Boeings by the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u32	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the functioning of the SKOK system... It's not like the Bureau hasn't been doing anything about it. The SKOK Wołomin case is handled by a prosecutor in Gorzów Wielkopolski. And in this investigation, we've been doing and doing our job. The matter of the functioning of the SKOK system was also the subject of the CBA's involvement at all times, both in the matter of statutory regulations and the risks you mentioned. It's not like the Bureau doesn't see it or investigate it. 'Cause there's some smaller SKOKs down there. And the office is involved in these cases too. I can't talk about everything. But it's not like it's beyond office activity. There were also some proposals for statutory changes which the CBA indicated as part of the functioning of the SKOK system and which actually materialized, in my opinion in a way that would benefit the interest of the Treasury. I would like to say that matters relating to the Wołomin SKOK will certainly still be the subject of the office's involvement. Let me remind you that the Wołomin SKOK case is a question of how to take over and then transfer huge money from this SKOK. Right? This is a very powerful investigation, as is the investigation of the SK Bank or the Cooperative Bank in Nadarzyn. The investigation into the drain of financial entities, whether it be the SKOKs or banks, will certainly be more. Such activities of organised crime groups, you can say, led to the collapse of these institutions. I'm not talking about SKOKs en block, I'm talking about a single case, SKOK Volomin. Actually, that's all I can say. When it comes to wiretapping, here's the deal. All services have the same regulations. I assure you, it's not like the service can turn on the wire without obtaining the approval of an external institution. The difference in the urgency procedure is that the external institution is here at the beginning of the prosecutor general. In the police department, it could be the District Attorney's Office. There is no need to obtain additional court consent and the procedure can be followed. But there is no legal option to apply the procedure without obtaining the consent of the prosecutor or district attorney in the case of special forces. [[Minister, this is a successor agreement. Normally, it's okay...]] No. This is not a successor agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a misunderstanding at all. The next deal... I have to explain this because there are a lot of half-truths or wrongs in the public debate. There's no consent from the Assistant Attorney General. This consent is a prior consent. You can't turn on a wire without the Attorney General's permission. The next agreement is the court's agreement. I repeat: a wiretap cannot be used without requesting, justifying and providing it to an external entity, which is the prosecution. Another action is unlawful action. As far as planes are concerned, I can prepare a written reply. There's a division of competence between the services. Like I said, I can give you the details in writing. [[But have you heard of such information from the American side, from the FBI?]] Let me put it this way: we're working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and I don't know that kind of information. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u34	You're asking Senator Ryszka a question. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] Absent. The question is, Senator Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question related to a fragment of your statement on the functioning of the various types of information systems used by our institutions. My question is this case. You're in a very general way. Perhaps I didn't understand something, so I would ask you to repeat it about the functioning of the tax offices. If I understand correctly, the tax authorities have some information. From the rest of your speech, I can imagine that this does not function as a system, as a network. And here's the question. This system operates in other countries, you mentioned Luxembourg What do you think prevents such a system from operating also in Poland? And one more point. You said that banks, financial institutions exchange information to which the CBA has access either limited or difficult. What prevents you from having access to this information, as I understand it, online in principle? Because that's what this is all about. And now the final reflection or question against the successes that you have had and which have been mentioned here. What prevents you from getting a few dozen more jobs in the case of your work? After all, this is in the strategic interest of our country. You've already earned those jobs. I think we should strengthen these... what are several dozen jobs in relation to those about 900 that the Minister mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u36	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the IRS is concerned, I'll try to answer that. The head of the IRS is the owner of the IRS and it is he who owns the IRS. The system is decentralised, i.e. the Ministry of Finance has certain systems which are obsolete and which may download these data. The idea is to create one system so that it is actually in the headquarters and that the ministry is hosted by competent authorities such as the KAS and the relevant departments that will analyze and process this data and then transfer it to the KAS. So the problem is that you have to change the same system. Tax offices will not now be hosts of this data, because they should be centralised. A very serious problem was the question of the competence of the authorities, which has been changed. After all, ladies and gentlemen, a very large proportion of these crimes were based on the fact that the entities were moving from the property of one to another tax office, and those were not able to exchange information among themselves. It's only now that it's changed. In fact, the tax office may continue to carry out checks or its officials or UKS, even if the entity in question changes its seat. It seems obvious, doesn't it? And yet it wasn't. When the real host is the head office of the Ministry of Finance and when it has a system to process the data that, as a result of changes in the law... Because these figures are not only at the disposal of tax offices, they are not digitized in such a way that they can be processed in a real and current way. And one more thing: they are not complete because they lack some key information. Therefore, these invoices were to be attached to this so that it could be seen how such a declaration was completed. And another thing: it's supposed to be in electronic form. That's what entrepreneurs do. That's not a problem for them right now, is it? It's a transfer between you and me. It's all digitized and really computerized right now. No problem when it comes to exchanging invoices between entrepreneurs. So it's just a matter of additional information to the IRS. And this is one of those pillars. And now the second pillar, which I was talking about, is the pillar of the exchange of financial information, because they correspond to money flows. And there are a few problems, there are problems of a factual and legal nature. The first problem of a legal nature is the problem of banking secrecy and legal issues which have this sphere properly regulated, so that it is possible, it is called real time compliance, that is, real-time tracking of financial flows. Because only then can certain processes be captured and blocked. After all, GILF, the General Inspector of Financial Information, has the possibility of blocking the account. Only if he gets the information a month later or a week later, that money's not there anymore. So this is really a right that can be good and contribute to ending the money laundering or transfer of illegal benefits, etc., but only if he is properly informed. Right? And on time. Then he'll be able to react. So the work is going to merge these systems and make them give real information. We have, as I said, two pillars, financial and related to declarations, generally tax. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you another question...]] [[Yes, please.]] Banks, of course, exchange such information among themselves. There's no problem here. There's an information office... They have the knowledge of the flow, if they want the knowledge of the flow. But there's a huge discrepancy here about organs that are dedicated to inhibiting certain processes. Banks have a duty to inform about suspicions of money laundering, but it can be different from fulfilling this obligation. Banks explain in such a way that the sphere of these flows is huge and not everything can be analysed. And it would be best if these banks could be partially carried out by making it possible to track the flows to the authorities appointed to do so, which operate on the basis and within the limits of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u38	The senator would like to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u39	Minister, when, in your opinion, are the conditions you have mentioned necessary for the operation of the system to be fulfilled? When will the system be fully operational? I would also like to add that remark. We all know Al Capone was in for taxes. This is one very important thing. Second thing. I ask when it will be introduced, because I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Mirosław Sekula, when he was president of NIK, about the functioning of the tax offices. Ever since then, I've known it's not working the way it's supposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u40	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u41	Thank you. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Legal changes have already taken place. In my opinion, further changes will take place in the near future. Apart from legal changes, there is still a need for real action that will lead to the development of analytical systems that will coordinate, process, analyse and give us some opportunities. Last year, a special purpose company was established for this purpose. The thing is, this system shouldn't be built... The State is not able to outsource systems that are essential for operation and safety, such as: ZUS system and fiscal systems. Here must be a guarantee that these systems will be in state power. That's why this company... It was created only to employ IT specialists and have ownership rights, codes, etc. Control of the system is crucial here. He's being built right now. I think in terms of... Well, it's hard for me to say... I don't want to speak for... It's something that's happening. For us as users... I'm talking about KAS, LAPD, ABW, CBA, etc. I pay particular attention here to the National Tax Administration, which has been established. An efficient officer will get such a tool and in an absolutely fundamental way I can say it with all responsibility This will change his situation in the fight against draining the tax system. [[Thank you.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u42	Senator Ryszka. [[Absent.]] There's no senator. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! You slipped a little bit on the V.I.P. plane subject, and I'm familiar with the hospital director's case, who, in order not to delay the diagnostics, bought a piece worth several thousand zlotys without a bid for broken equipment. And now he's got to, I'm gonna say colloquially, make a big confession about why he bought it without a tender, against the Public Procurement Act. Here we have a purchase worth more than 2 billion, made not only with the violation of the Public Procurement Act, but also with the deception of the National Board of Appeal, who was told that this had to be done, because money would be lost, which quickly turned out to be false. According to the U.S.A., there's a suspicion these planes were overpaid. And if there's no suspicion of corruption at this point, then I'm starting to think that the office, whose activities I highly appreciate, maybe it's not blindness, but astigmatism, because it sees a small matter and doesn't see a big one. In addition, in this case, the taste is that, as you know, the law firm of the Prime Minister signed an agreement for the use of LOT's embraers, but they were still unused because the government flew CASA military planes, which, of course, costs certain money. My question is whether, in this regard, you are paying attention to this unintelligible action. And second question. Has your attention been paid to the recently adopted law on the so-called. A pharmacy for a pharmacist who carried the mark of a hard-lobbed law, and it's because of one environment, and its political and financial consequences can be extremely painful for society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u44	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to avoid... Except I wouldn't want to make a mistake in answer. I therefore propose that the reply be made in writing. It's not like these things haven't been spotted, and they're not analyzed by the office. Besides, I can't talk about everything, so... [[Can I get a little louder?]] For this reason, I have been sparing in the message to you on this matter. This, of course, is a very large expense. Right? And I understand the doubts about the application, it seems, procedures 4.5 of the PHP, because it was applied, it was considered that... I'm gonna say it again: I'm gonna give it to you in writing when it comes to buying Boeings. [[Can I ask you another question?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I...]] [[Mr. Secretary, keep an eye on the room.]] [[Mr. Secretary, an additional note, if you don't mind.]] [[But I'm talking to the marshal and I'm discussing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u45	I understand, Minister, but, with all due respect, you are in the House of the Supreme Authority, the Senate of the Republic of Poland. If there are messages that you do not wish to communicate to the public in a broad way, then there is a procedure for ordering a secret meeting. If necessary... I don't think there's any problem with that decision. Please, if the Minister thinks he can't say it on the board, it's written in my hands. I know how to understand my role as a senator. Let me remind you that we have been properly trained and signed appropriate confidentiality documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u46	Of course, I get it. I don't want to say that... this isn't classified information that I don't want to say. There's a very important thing to say here. Just because someone is entitled to receive classified information does not mean that any such information is to be received. The principle is that we give this information when such information is necessary for such a person. And one more thing I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen. There is always time for certain information at our disposal and which is not of a public nature to be vitiated and communicated to the relevant authorities at the appropriate time. It is not always that the information provided to the High Chambers, the Sejm and the Senate, must, I would say, anticipate the functioning of other organs which are at this moment dedicated to providing this information... I don't know if I was specific. Everything has its time. And that's what the time will come for. I don't want to hide anything here. I can only add that this written information will be public information, not private information. About the so-called. The pharmacy for the pharmacist, it was the subject of analysis. One element of the activity of the Central Anti-corruption Office is the analysis of some draft laws. We can't analyze them all, can we? All I can say in this context is that there are different models. There's a model, I'd say, unregulated, which... We are dealing with such an unregulated model, for example. in the UK, where there are two major players who actually took over the entire market. The regulated model was used in Germany. There's a model that's regulated. and as far as pharmacy is concerned, they are subject to certain state regulations, which disperse operators and aim to prevent them from being concentrated. Because if there are two big players, they're actually gonna cut out everyone else on the market. I do not want to judge this from the point of view of the financial disaster at the moment, because in my opinion it is an absolutely civilised and acceptable model, but we have not come across what you have asked, namely some specific lobby, in which it was in the interest of the illegal influence of the legislative process in order to obtain tangible benefits. In this situation, someone always gets hurt. or else: dissatisfied And in this case, the large pharmaceutical companies that built their pharmacies are unhappy. In fact, the question was whether the State would react decisively to such practice and whether it would introduce regulations that would allow smaller pharmacies to function or leave everything to the free market. A model has been chosen that will be subject to certain regulations and restrictions And this is the proverbial pharmacy for the pharmacist. This is obviously a simplification, but as far as the Central Office for Corruption is concerned, I can only say that we have not noticed the impact of unlawful lobbying on this bill. [[Someone misled you because there are over 400 pharmacies. There are 3 wholesalers that dominate the market, but this problem is not affected at all.]] [[We'll take care of it, too.]] [[When?]] [[Soon.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the networks and wholesalers that dominate the market... We understand all this, but I told you about a model that's supposed to... The State considered that this market needs to be regulated, as is the case in Germany, although, as I said, for example. There is no such model in the UK. It's all been left there for the free market.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u47	Mr. President, I've been informed that it's been four hours since we've been working so hard on you, so if you don't mind, I'll be collecting questions. Senator Slugocki first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a quick question. You were talking about property statements. It was one of the threads of our discussion today. It is good that the Central Anti-corruption Office examines statements of property of Polish judges, but I have this question: since the CBA examines statements of property of Polish politicians, it is whether it investigated, among others. a property statement which was the subject of the programme at one of the commercial television stations? Well, the supposed barn turned out to be a pretty rich, impressive home. Even the word "willa" could be used. Is that what you're doing, or isn't it? What is the criterion that determines that you're dealing with judges, some politicians and others aren't? For some politicians, you analyze private conversations in restaurants, and for others you do not examine tax statements and property statements. What's the key? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Senator Zdrojewska. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u50	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna straighten you out a little bit. There were words here that you were not representatives of the theoretical state. You said the CBA represented the state by entering the National Court Register. In this context, I would like to remind you that the courts are also a state. The courts are also part of the state, so that it is not so that you represent the state and the courts are something smaller. It's a matter of certain customs. Now that we're talking about this immunized sphere, let me remind you that even the communists have observed it, and for example. They did not enter churches or universities without the permission of the rector or priest. [[Service.]] Yeah, the servants. That's what I'm paying attention to. Of course, it was broken, but it always happens, so watch out for it. And imagine you'd have to go in, for example. To the President's Office after one of the officials. Or would you behave like this, or would you first take care of some forms, for example. by sending a written notice? Because it's just a subpoena, not an arrest or a pursuit of a convicted felon. I'd like to ask you a specific question and ask... Thank you for what you said, saying that you know perfectly well why the CBA was called. Because to pursue the rulers, not the opposition And those are your words. Thank you for being aware of this, but I would like to make you aware that the months are running and that the term will be halfway through. When are you gonna start chasing the rulers? And that's where our questions are headed today. [[Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] I'm almost done. Thank you so much and I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. [[Children's Day is today, Mr. Marshal.]] And I'm sorry, because it wasn't really a question, it was just... [[The question was, when?]] Oh, when.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u51	Thank you. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You didn't answer my question about cars in the last series. How many were purchased by CBA and was this in line with the Public Procurement Act? Second question: are you questioning the possibility of functioning the so-called. the KRS protection zone and whether, therefore, such an immunized zone is not does it exist in the CBA? Can any citizen enter you or your deputy directly from the street? And I'd like to ask you if you're questioning the protection zone of the National Judicial Council. This is the Constitutional Authority. Are you questioning her? Yes or no. And did you know that Judge Zurek, who was being chased... Well, maybe not wanted, but you wanted to invite him to your headquarters for a property statement. It's nothing sudden, nothing urgent, nothing unusual. Why, therefore, is there such an urgent need to enter the KRS through a protection zone where you have forced your way into it? That's my knowledge. And one last question. But I'm gonna ask you about reprivatization. If you haven't started since 1991, why don't you consider 1997 and the two previous years: 1995 and 1996? Why does this date coincide with the time when President Gronkiewicz-Waltz began her office? Why don't you start at least a year or two earlier? [[In 2006, I think.]] Please? [[In 2006 the Commission ……]] In 2006, yes. [[Because the senator said 1996.]] Oh, excuse me. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And one last question. Well, you didn't tell me what Senator Slugock was asking you. This question concerns Mr Szyszka's statement of property, which, as we know from the newspapers, also did not mention in the statement the value of this supposedly barn. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u54	Thank you. Minister, I want you to answer if you're planning any proceedings regarding the purchase of these Boeings, or, in fact, whether the CBA provides for them. Because you didn't say that. Do you think this shouldn't be of interest to the CBA? And one more thing, a new question. You said there were over 900 people working at the CBA. Tell me how many people left or were removed after the 2015 election, when your crew came and how many new people came with this new crew. I'm interested in this staff movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u55	Thank you. And last in this tour, Mr. Senator Blackbay. Last but not least.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u56	Yes, thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the context of earlier questions... Would it be possible to join this information... in connection with what you asked Senator Zdrojewska, Minister, about the number of bugs and comparison of the years 2014, 2015, 2016, because the Minister made a declaration that he would give us something like this... Could we add some information to that? Also in the 2014, 2015 and 2016 years concerning CBA requests to mobile phone operators about phone records, information about data owners of phone numbers, addresses? How many individual speeches were there every year? If that's possible, you're welcome. That's one question. And second question. Minister, at the time when the law on logging was introduced, President Kaczyński said that it should be checked, because lobbying is visible for this law to enter. Was it an object, or will it be, or is it an object of interest in your service?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u57	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, as regards matters relating to the analysis of claims of property, I said that we are analyzing and controlling statements of property also by politicians, including government politicians. As far as I remember, in the case of parliamentarians of these pre-audit analyses there were 14 and the audit was 5. So it's not like that... but every analysis is a very thorough analysis, it's not watching... This is a formally initiated procedure under which a person is actually checked in a systemic and very detailed manner. One of the notifications was a notice of suspicion by the parliamentarian of the ruling party, a parliamentarian of the PiS. So I don't see the situation here that we don't look at the politicians in charge. Similarly, we look at those who are in charge of public functions. In the case of persons with high public functions, their claims were analysed and checks were subsequently initiated on this basis. I presented the summary. However, I can't speak in detail about every case that the Bureau has been conducting. I'm simply not in a position to present this in detail right now. If you wish to have a detailed list of these checks, we can of course put this in writing. When it comes to prosecuting rulers, because that was an important question, it's... I don't know, maybe you're missing some things. But I'll pay attention, for example. for the PKP case, i.e. tenders for strengthening railway stations before the planned World Youth Day. There was... [[Security.]] It's about security, but it's also about training. This is a matter for the rulers. In this case, charges have been filed, among others. members of the Management Board of the PKP. It's a contract. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2 million zlotys. It is not, therefore, that the office does not deal with matters concerning this crew, which currently exercises power. And when it comes to other things... Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, this is all a matter of logic, time and certain things that are happening. I think you will be witnessing further action in this area. It's not really that the office closes its eyes on the trials that are happening. These processes take place in the sphere of those entities and persons who have real power and have the ability to make decisions. As far as car purchases are concerned, the purchase procedures for cars are actually displayed on the Central Anti-corruption Office website, you can read them. This is, of course, a procedure from the public procurement law, fully transparent. Those aren't cars... These are cars, let's call it, used openly, on a daily basis, for the functioning of the office, these are not operating cars, for the performance of operations, but of course these cars are also needed in the office. So maybe I'm sending it to the website, but here's a fully transparent procedure and, as I said, in accordance with the Orders Act, it was an unlimited tender. As far as the KRS case is concerned, I believe the officers acted on the basis and within the limits of the law. It was about delivering the authorisation, and the audit procedure did not want it to be delivered effectively. And here are the facts that are established, and I'll give you exactly what it looked like. And it was, in my opinion, a game calculated on the political outcome. When it comes to the immunized sphere... Do you mean yes or no, am I questioning a zone in the KRS? I'm not questioning anything, because I don't actually know what this KRS area you're asking about is. Is there any territory in... because in... [[I was a member, so I know.]] At the Central Corruption Bureau, which is a special service, there is no territory that is excluded from the cognition of anyone and from action... Of course you can enter, but there's a certain procedure. And I repeat, the officers have been let in. It's not true that they forced it, it's false information, and it's completely false, it's prepared for use, it's like, playing a certain game around this event, which, in my opinion, shouldn't bother you, because it's an incident, it's a simple acceptance of control authority and information about the start of control. As for the number of people who left, I presented it, but I'll say it again. In 2016, 42 officers, including 37 retired, and 10 employees left the office. 79 officers and 30 staff were admitted to the service. An application for admission to the service was submitted to the office of 1566, 735 qualifying proceedings were initiated, as I say, last year 108 was completed positively. I don't know if that's all... The rest, as far as the written ones are concerned... what you asked the senator, which is the lobbying case, as I said, I'm going to put it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u59	Thank you very much. Now for another tour... [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Please. I wanted to give you the floor, Senator Shark, but... [[Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't notice.]] Men first, men first on the Platform. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to add: my question about Minister Szyszka came from the fact that this is my constituency. In Tuczno, in case the Minister doesn't know which barn it's about. The Sovereign asks me about it very often, it's been about a year now, when this barn costs very little, and there are a few willing to buy for this amount. And I'd like to ask you again... On page 20, Minister, the case of the project is described Kaszubski incubator of entrepreneurship, irregularities in the Pomeranian office... Office of the Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. Is the final outcome of this check and the conclusion of... what is the outcome of this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u61	Thank you very much. And Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u62	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to remind you once again that I have also asked for information for Senator Zdrojewska about speeches concerning... The Minister left it out... [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau: I know what this is about. Yeah, okay.]] Yes? So I understand that the Minister will be joining... you'll be the one to write it down that the Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u63	I'm writing this down, but I'm not declaring that information to be included, because she might have... [[Voice from the room: Clause.]] ...the clause, yes. There's no clause in the wiretap statistical information because it's currently covered by the Attorney General's appearance. But information about phone records, as far as I know, has a clause like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u64	Minister, I'm sorry, but just so we understand each other, the more general, the better, the first. Secondly, I would like to say this: every year we have been given information about how many times the service has requested different kinds of information from operators. I don't want it to be broken down by phone records, absolutely. We performed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u65	I understand, then, of course, Senator... [[In a general way...]] ...I declare to take action to prepare such information and present it to the State. [[Well, I wouldn't want the Minister to focus on statistics, and I wouldn't want the investigations to lie down. So that I would only ask in general.]] I assure you, it won't be to the detriment of the investigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u66	Thank you very much. It's been four hours of minister's torture. Are there any more questions? [[Yes, I have a question.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[The last two.]] Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Today there are a lot of threads from the Ministry of National Defence. I, too, would like to ask... Because I think this is a situation that concerns many of my constituents coming to my senator's office with questions. And I would like to ask you, Minister, if the CBA is taking any steps in this regard. I'm talking about cars that are notoriously crashed at the Ministry of National Defense. Has the CBA been investigating the causes of this number of accidents, whether it was investigating the purchases of cars at the Ministry of National Defence, how much it buys them, why these cars are being destroyed so quickly, and what is happening to these destroyed cars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u68	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, when it comes to these phone records, the number of these phone records, I'm a little surprised by your answer, because we've already received information about the number... [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau Beida: I, I'm sorry, I don't want to come in... Yes, I understand. It's just a matter of breaking up... because aggregate information isn't... it's just about certain details.]] Good. But I'm talking about the number of phone records. That's the kind of information I've had before. Besides, it would be weird if we could get information about wiretaps, which is much more, I'd say, sensitive, and phone records. No, no, no, no, That's one thing. Secondly, if the Minister, by providing written information that some senators have asked for here, would also want to add to the news: Senator Marek Borowski, I would be obliged to do so. Because I'm interested in it, too. And one last question, maybe a delicate nature, but I'll ask it. Namely, was the Minister a member of Law and Justice or a member of Law and Justice? And did the Minister take part in any election to any organ on the list or any committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u71	Minister, I'm going back to the earlier question Senator Shark asked you. Namely, it's about getting tricked into it. We have such information, unambiguously CBA officers to the protection zone of the National Judicial Council under the pretext of service of the order, the original order to initiate administrative proceedings, without the need to take any safeguards, urgent or urgent actions, and without prior notification by correspondence, as is usually the case. My question is whether the CBA standard is to serve the order for the initiation of administrative proceedings by CBA officers directly to persons... I'm already overlooking the fact that this was happening during the work of the National Judicial Council and that the work was disturbed, and that the officers were absolutely not invited. I am merely asking about the standards in the CBA regarding such activities, normal administrative activities, which, in accordance with my experience, are carried out through the post office, and only when there is no such service, is personal service by officers or by the police.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u72	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? No? So we can close... Yes? [[The Minister didn't answer my question about this Kashubian business incubator. Just this.]] So the Minister's answer and we can end Question Time. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kashubian Business Incubator is an issue that has been examined. As far as the result is concerned, it can be said that in the framework of the audit findings it was found that part of the office space that was to be rented to entrepreneurs who were to carry out such, I would say, innovative activities... They didn't do that kind of work. There have been previous UKS inspections, which said that everything is fine, and CBA's audit concluded that entrepreneurs who, within this incubator, rent surfaces are not engaged in innovative activities. It's an audit statement. It was found that the wrong funding for this project amounts to about PLN 12 million. The case is not over yet, so the final results need to be waited for. These are statements resulting from the control of the Kashubian incubator of entrepreneurship. Let me just remind you that this activity, these expenses were previously controlled by the UKS and by some other entity. Then it was found that everything was okay, that there were actually no faults. This is also the reason that the CBA was previously carried out in the framework of a coordinated audit to all marshal offices. The reason was not only this check earlier, but also other information. And it's not... The Bureau is an authority that has the right to control. These checks may be planned but also ad hoc. If the control procedure is applied, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to justify it. Reason for suspecting a crime... No one can justify it, nor does the UKS or the tax office justify it. It's a normal procedure. Of course, you can always look for political aspects, why we didn't check or see... right? Well, it's hard for me to explain. The reasons for this were purely substantive. [[I asked if the action was over or not. I'm not questioning...]] I'll say one more thing. The most important reason for initiating this coordinated control is the question of the size of public funds that were, so to speak, distributed by the marshals' offices. As I said, this is the amount of PLN 100 billion, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's a good enough reason. I don't know if you can find a better one; maybe you can. To check how these funds were distributed. Seems pretty obvious. And maybe one more thing. About... This is a question that really is a question with the thesis, presenting a certain position. I say yes, sir, sir: audiatur et altera pars Let it be heard and the other side. It is good to listen to the other side's arguments before you present your thesis, because then you can confront yourself, put the facts together. I think these facts were different. We have evidence of that, and so on. It was just a procedure, there was nothing out of the ordinary. And one more thing I'm gonna say. With us, it is standard that inspection calls are served to persons who are to be subjected to such checks, directly and not by mail. Because then you wait weeks for an answer. Maybe somebody will answer, maybe they won't answer, they won't answer, they won't answer, they'll make an appointment or they won't make an appointment. Right? That's not true. There are things... If we take this seriously... [[At the workplace?]] It doesn't matter where. If we're serious about organ function... It has to work in all relationships. The fact that I'm in a serious institution... I know what institution I'm in. I think Judge Żurek knows what institution... I respect the laws, I do my job, but I also have to respect the powers of others. That's all. Of course, I'll give you the details in writing. About... I'm telling you again. The number of calls... I was more concerned with such specific issues, broken down into... such information will be presented. As regards my membership of the Law and Justice Party, I was not a member of the Law and Justice, but actually in 2011 I ran from the Letter of Law and Justice to the Sejm, from my family's district of Chelm. I didn't get a parliamentary mandate. [[And MON cars...]] When it comes to cars at the Ministry of National Defence, I cannot relate to the causes of these accidents. I think there's a rehearsal here. That's my assessment. It's too loud for that. These accidents happen. There are accidents like this, including when it comes to CBA. Maybe it's just directing public attention to events that happen from time to time. We pay too much attention to this. As far as car shopping at the Ministry of National Defense is concerned, I don't have any signals that there's abuse there. If we receive such signals, we will certainly examine the matter concerning the purchase of business cars. Did I miss something because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u74	I don't think so. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for your patience... [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you very much.]] ...for very comprehensive answers and congratulations on your condition. [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.]] [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: And the condition must be.]] I inform you that the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by the senators: Senator Zdrojewska and Sztark, and Senators Klich, Slugocki, Borusewicz and Grodzki... [[And Zientarski.]] ...and Senator Zientarski... [[And Blackbeard.]] ...and Czarnobaj. Yes. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Who's next? I give the floor to Senator Jackowski. There isn't. The debate is moving fast. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is Marshal Borowski. [[There it is.]] There it is. I don't know if it's sad or stetha, but it is. [[Stety!]] Stety, yeah. [[Mr. Marshal Borowski is expected...]] [[Voice from the room: From the time after the previous...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sure Mr. Marshal will congratulate you.]] [[For Mr. Ryszka.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u75	And here, Mr. Senator, you didn't make a mistake, because I'm gonna start with that part. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... But the Minister is being absorbed by Senator Grodzki, who teaches him the secrets of medical equipment. [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister has divisive attention.]] [[Congratulations are about to come, so don't bother the minister.]] But it was out of time, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Bureau of Corruption is an institution of special importance. Immediately, at the very beginning, I would like to say that from the moment it was created, even though it was an initiative of a political group, to which I was in opposition, I considered this to be the right decision. And I still think that the CBA should exist, although I know that there are other concepts that are going to end it. [[It's wrong.]] I do not agree with this, and here I share Senator Ryszka's view, perhaps only at this point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is an important institution because of the fact that corruption is perhaps the most dangerous democracy we know. In many countries, we have seen situations where such widespread corruption, which was completely uncontrollable, destroyed this democracy. The Minister has repeatedly referred to the predecessors, or actually to the predecessor and CBA's activities in the last 8 years, criticizing the various manifestations and various aspects of this activity. I must tell you, Minister, it is very difficult for us to refer to this, because we do not know the details. If the Minister says, for example, that the previous CBA didn't do anything, it's very difficult to decide whether it didn't do the right thing or wrongly. Therefore, there is only a certain assessment based on verifiable facts. Such a verifiable fact is the ranking of corruption drawn up by Transparency International, done every year. All I can say is that in the last 8 years, from 2008 to 2015, Poland has moved from the 50th to the twenty-nineth place in this ranking. Of course, it's not just CBA, it's clear. But it has to be taken into account. If the CBA under the authority of the Minister achieves a similar result, it will be very good. I would say that this is a very important institution, but there is one condition here, actually a few, quite essential. Namely, this institution must really only deal with what it was called for to do and do so with some objectivity. And the risk is great here because we know, unfortunately, the history teaches that the Central Anti-corruption Office can unfortunately be used for political purposes. And it can be used for that because its structure... is purely political. It's not like in the police department where a police chief becomes a police officer who goes all the way to a promotion, probably from a private police officer. Here we're dealing with something else. This risk is therefore rapidly increasing. Such an institution may be used against the opposition, but also for internal settlements. The example of the land scandal and Andrzej Lepper shows that CBA was used for internal settlements. At the head of this institution can be, as I said, any person, including politicians. Mr Mariusz Kaminski was such a clinical example, who headed the CBA in 2006-2007, being a clean water politician. As for the Minister, I asked him this. Your relationship with politics is much weaker, but there are some. And of course, it's right in front of everyone to be alert or to be able to stay awake. full objectivity. Also, since the Minister is talking about eavesdropping, The sudden ones, as you call it, are assumed after the prior consent of the Attorney General, and only then the subsequent court... Of course, that's how it has to be. 'Cause if you gotta do it fast, you gotta do it fast. Only that currently in Poland the Attorney General is the Minister of Justice. And he's a clean water politician. It can be said that it is appointed by the same decision-making centre by which you have been appointed. So there's no guarantee that the Attorney General will be critical of your proposals. I draw attention to this context. This, of course, does not have to lead to negative effects, such as. what we observed during the management of this institution by Mr Mariusz Kaminski, who simply used the method of leading to temptation. But maybe. There is an old anecdotal saying that there were 2 monasteries in a village opposite each other: one male, one female. Does anything have to come of this? No, but maybe. Now, in connection with this, your information unfortunately did not dispel all my doubts. Senator Probier demanded an increase in his standing, because there are good results... etc., etc. Well, I have to ask, aren't you really trying to cover too wide... Because I hear you're entering an entrepreneurial incubator, but not because you suspect someone of corruption, just to see that there are no innovative startups, just some other people sitting there doing something... You enter 16 marshal offices, as if all of them have been informed about some corruption that is happening there. You're doing, I don't know... I don't know what it's like with this prison, whether it's corruption or something. A lot of your information showed that you were discovering some malfunctions in the functioning that could probably be discovered in any institution, how you enter it, smaller or larger, but not necessarily related to corruption. So let me make this short: you're overloaded with work. After all, in order to enter 16 offices and check the implementation of EU funds to review everything, it takes many people who sit there for weeks and months. And on top of that... Excuse me, Minister, but do they know anything about this? These are very complicated things. The auditors of the Supreme Audit Office are specialized in certain areas, enter... etc. But you guys are checking everything. That's something you have to give up. Corruption, anti-corruption. And you were also right when you said that... the point was that the D.A.'s ordering you to, for example. dealing with a small matter, let's say, bribery with some doctor somewhere, etc. Well, initiate some changes in the law, because it can't be. It's a police matter, let her handle it. And you deal with major corruption issues, especially when it comes to tenders, especially when it comes to the rulers, the whole elite of power, so I would say, because here is the threat of this corrupt cancer, which can then spread. And if you go everywhere, it's a risk... And if we're talking about marshal offices... Why was I having second thoughts? That's because 15 of these 16 marshal offices are led by opposition groups. And then all of a sudden, you go in there. You have blocked the use of EU funds for a time. Now you're Judge Beetle, who's been changed here by all the cases. In Poland there are 10,000 judges and 10,000 judges have published their statements of property. And all of a sudden, you took care of Mr. Żurk. The question is: why him? [[By accident.]] Maybe a coincidence, I don't know, maybe it happened randomly. Right? [[Yeah, it's random.]] But you will admit to the Minister that this may raise doubts. The CBA cannot be assessed on the basis of the number of proceedings initiated. Because you can start it, but then what? We were talking about the tsunami of these... Ladies and gentlemen, everyone's been watching this. Well, it was an embarrassing spectacle when every minister wanted to show off and say things. We already know today that out of these hundreds of suspicions... I don't know how much. A dozen? 30? 40? And so far, nothing's worked out. Nothing, nothing at all. So when you say you're starting this or that... All right, I don't say yes, I don't say no. In a sense, the assessment of de lege ferenda, although this is not a legal issue, should look so that after a certain period of time we have a report, how many cases have been initiated and what have ended, i.e. How many cases have ended with convictions. I have to say, in our beautiful country, it's like every crew comes. And I'm not releasing any responsibility here. It's the predecessors, so to speak, the hammer drives it into the ground, and it comes out very high in their background, indicates a lot of different irregularities, and then it turns out that it's all dying somewhere. In this context, the CBA, where criminal offences may be involved, would also need to be controlled later. There is also an example, say, of the Minister of Gliński, who accused the World War II Museum of numerous frauds, and then it turned out that there was no scam, just no scam. Of course, in this situation no one will even apologize, it's too bad to talk about it. You talked about prevention, which is crazy important in the office, but we haven't heard much about it. I mean, what kind of methods do you use, what do you do in this respect? There may be something about this in the report, so I don't insist... But there's more to it than that. I would also like to say that when it comes to reprivatization, especially in Warsaw, the situation is asked that you, Minister, even ask your colleagues to finally adopt some act of reprivatization. Because it seems that the absence of this bill provides you with a job... [[Mr. Marshal...]] That's right, I'll finish my sentence... [[Please.]] ...and then I'll be in for five more minutes. That's what he's giving you, Minister. In the United States, it is claimed that lawyers who prepare laws for congressmanship specifically write them so as to have a lot of work and earn a lot of money. And that's pretty much what it looks like, because there's no reprivatization bill, there'll be further reprivatizations. They will, won't they? And any one of them could be suspicious. And you, sir, are gonna get yourself killed. What I don't wish you. Take a break for now, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. I'll be back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The CBA was called to pursue crimes of corruption, the heaviest crimes against which, of course, the camp of power, of every authority, is always vulnerable. What does it look like right now? In addition to this essential role, the CBA docks various types of controls The NIK and other inspection offices shall be provided by the NIK. The report states that in 2016 work continued to develop recommendations for dealing with contacts by an official The client and the development of uniform organizational standards in public offices. Is this and should this be the subject of the CBA's work? What's the Prime Minister's office for? What's NIK for? You're saying you're overloaded with work. I think you need to take off some of the work, just the one when it comes to such checks. Why would you do that? That's what other institutions are for. Let them do it. They're taking money for it. And you and your formation, your service is to prosecute the most serious crimes, especially corruption. That's what the Central Bureau of Corruption is for, that's what it was called for, that was the idea. So I think this is where we need to specify... Yeah, you went too sideways. Besides, you can't deal with every application that affects you. It's just that some people have a preference to refer applications to you or the prosecution, and then to inform the public about it, which is to use it as a tool. I will remind you that Jacek Kurski, when he was in the Marshal's office and a little later, sent six applications for prosecution, and they concerned the same case, selling the cinema network. And every time, of course, he informed the public that he had sent a motion to the prosecution. Then the same seventh proposal for the same case was made by the former PIS Member from Gdynia. Well, you have to realize that some people have a taste for this kind of game, a political game. I wonder if Jacek Kurski sent a motion to law enforcement regarding public television. I understand that now where he is, everything is fine. Good. I am not questioning this, I just want to say that if in Gdynia city councilman Gdynia addresses a request to the CBA, he is reporting a corruption issue consisting in handing out invitations to city councilmen to the Opens, in a situation where Gdynia is a co-organizer of the Opens, and your CBA people are interrogating all the councilmen, that is an exaggeration. This is too much. Even if it isn't the CBA that's supposed to be doing this. After all, we also receive many different invitations. So? There's gonna be someone who's gonna make a motion that invites that we get to our offices for different parties... Someone will show up and say in a general way that this is a form of bribery and your service will begin to instigate us all here? As far as we are concerned, I do not think this is going to happen, but I know that in Gdynia, Gdynia, at the moment this kind of procedure is conducted by the local branch of the CBA delegation in Gdańsk. Minister, it is normal for the opposition to always suspect that services are being used for political purposes. It's normal. And I'm sure the service and your service should show that it's as clean as possible. If you raided a dozen ministries by controlling the ministries of the PiS government, there would be no problem. But if you enter, if your people enter 16 marshal offices and conduct general checks not on the basis of specific information, but on the assumption that we will catch something, and those 16 offices in 15 offices are ruled by opposition, then why are you surprised that there are any suspicions? There wouldn't be any suspicion if you said there were signals, so we're checking. And that was complete control. Well, you should've done a comprehensive control at the ministries first. It's the same with Judge Żurek, Minister. You may be short in politics, but a large part of us is long enough, and you are surprised to see that there is a temporary coincidence when it comes to the criticism of Judge Zurek and very important decisions that the government, the Minister of Justice, intends to implement because they want to master the judiciary, control the judiciary. And that is the direction of the criticism of Judge Zurek, who defends the independence of the National Judicial Council. He walks in and tries to give him a public call. Yes? Publicly. Then there is information that the call was attempted. Well, how do you rate that? Well, how do you rate that? We're just bringing things together. That is our role: to control what government and government agendas do to look at their hands. JOKE... I noticed that in the material you wrote about SK Bank from Wołomin, and you did not write anything about SKOK in Wołomin, where there was not only money transfer, but also a crime of assault and battery threatening to lose a life. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Okay, I'm done. So it looks like it's camouflage in this document. Chamouflages SKOK in Volomin with this SK Bank of Volomin. 'Cause if someone reads... Oh, it's written about the Volomin bank's SK. That's it. It reminds me of certain processes that were done... I'm not going back to the past. And finally. This is not strictly relevant to your report or this matter, but I would like to tell you that the Director of Control, Krzysztof Bolin, was fired from Energa Operator, a former officer of the State Security Office, who was removed with Adam Hodysz in connection with the Wałęsa case. And that's the giggle of history that you guys kicked him out of that Energa company now, and you were the first to come. Guys from the exhibit or from the Gdansk Homeland Security Department. It has nothing to do with me, but it's really scandalous for me to do something like this. But this is the giggle of history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u78	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. [[Mr. Secretary...]] [[Start with congratulations.]] [[Of course I do.]] [[...why am I not on the list?]] [[Who said you weren't here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna use my 10 minutes to get back to... [[Thank you. Thank you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please? [[Voices from the room: Thank you.]] Yes? That's what I knew where to start. I don't know what I'm gonna end up with yet. But I'd like to go back to a few things I've been asking you about. Minister, because I was inspired by Senator Ryszka and not only, I would like to stress once again: we too There is no division between opposition and power, and we were in favour of CBA being created because we realized and realized that power was always corrupting. But I would like to add that absolute power is depraving absolutely. Therefore, there must be a whip and there must be some service entirely outside of those operating alongside the authority that will watch over, supervise. Hence my reminder and my thanks for these reprivatisation investigations, as well as the mention that you should cover our entire country. Also taxes, taxes and matters related to the increased amount of taxes, which now go to the state budget... And this, Minister, at first. But I'll come back because you have to come back and remind you, and you mustn't stubbornly, with stubbornness worthy, well, better to stick with your own, so to speak, arrangements, just and exclusively, and with some slight approach For what happened at the National Judicial Council. That's why I talked about it, and that's why I'm here now, that there's a very dangerous precedent. You enter an institution covered by such constitutional protection. Mr. Żurek, Judge Żurek, whom we mentioned, has been in the area for a long time or recently, I apologize for your control. It used to be something else, in this case, a property statement. I would like to tell you that this all began when Judge Żurek, as the spokesperson of the National Court of Justice, acted in defence of the judges, in defence of the Constitutional Tribunal and in defence of matters relating to the judiciary, very important and important, perhaps the most important... 'Cause now I'll remind you, Minister... Unfortunately, you have entered the middle of a war of three divisions of power. Whether consciously or not, you have entered the middle of this war. Also affecting that security zone I was talking about. Because it is, it is written in the regulations, please check, Minister, because there is nothing to ignore such matters. You could have given this call for questioning. During this time, Minister, by chance, it also affects Judge Żurek's anonymous name about his work, his situation, his former family situation... All this by accident and by chance it is by certain media constantly reminded... And very well, very well, if you were just going to give this call, not the person of the judge who, as I said, went into the middle of the war about the division of power. If this hadn't just happened in the way... as elegantly put it... You specifically did so at a time when the National Court meeting was held, which takes place only once a month, when the Bureau was sitting... Because you've invaded the president's office, the vice-presidents of the National Court Register, you've invaded... Just a simple call to the chairman of the KRS wouldn't be a problem. So it was a manifestation, Minister, completely redundant, completely redundant. Because the judge also has the immunity that protects you, me and the others. And, Minister, if there weren't other consequences later, which I'm just talking about. Some anonymous name of Mr. Nowak, followed by an immediate proceeding against Mr. Zurk It could be said that Mr. Zurek's person is known, and since you saw some doubt in his estate statement, you have the right to control him. Control us all, control the judges, control the power, because that's what you're for, but, Minister, for God's sake, please don't go to that kind of manifestation. I come from the '80s, when there were also such manifestations. Those are the things we don't like to mention, and I wouldn't want to... I was convinced so far. And I hope I'll never give up on that belief. The CBA is necessary, necessary, so once again please: take charge of control of the authorities, because this is an overriding matter, but do not make such manifestations of matters that should be conducted in a civilised manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me put it a little differently: I'm trying to get into people. I'm thinking about our constituents or even members of our society, and I'm wondering what they really want from the CBA. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Am I interrupting, Minister, Senator Żaryn? Excuse me, but we'll be done in a minute and you can talk. Thank you very much. I'm addressing the Minister. I would like us to think about how society looks at the work of the CBA and what it expects. I'm sure the Minister was wondering the same thing. I would like to point out that the most important thing is not Although it is not meaningless, what the rulers expect or what the opposition expects, but what the CBA thinks of people. In my opinion, people simply want certain issues that appear in public circulation to be clarified. If there's something bad going on somewhere, they expect a good officer to be there to explain the matter from start to finish, and that this case will not only be initiated, but also ended. We say, for example, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But the CBA should also say this: we've checked this and this case, and it's all not true. There was no big deal, and this man is innocent. In our opinion, all of this should be public. In my opinion, this should be explained at press conferences. Mr. Marshal, would you mind pouring me some more water? [[Of course.]] We've been here so long. I can imagine how the minister must have dried his throat if you've been sitting here for hours. But I don't think you've broken the Minister's record... [[Did he sit down? He was standing.]] He was standing, yeah. But there was another tall man from the service here. [[But to the point, time is money.]] I was waiting for the water. Thank you very much. [[We'll be here by tomorrow, Mr. Marshal.]] Get to the point. [[Tomorrow or to the point?]] [[In the Network.]] To the point or to tomorrow? [[No, in the Network, not until tomorrow.]] Yes, in the Network. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I would like to mention the issues of the current power. I hope that you will also explain these issues about your predecessors and tell them who was guilty and who wasn't, and that all of this will be public. But I'd like us to know that they need an explanation of things like the SKOK scandal that we're referring to here today. This is serious. And if it wasn't anyone's fault, it's a good thing someone said it. And when it was the fault. It's to find out who's taking her. Because something happened. We are dealing with a huge flow of money, in a specific amount, we are also dealing with human harm. So that it just needs to end and explain. There are situations like this. The incident that was related to the accountant of the PiS, the accountant of the PiS club, which somewhere... The PKP Affiliate It came out somewhere, it's gone, we don't know how it ended. I think it's just something you have to say: it was a big deal. It wasn't a big deal. Now, I'm also going to refer to... I'd like to ask if, for example, within the framework of... the said control... Because since we control all marshal offices in terms of spending on EU funds, I'd like to know. But not right now, it's just... The public, or accusations of the Prime Minister's husband, that in some exceptional way he received grants from the Marshal's office, are correct or have absolutely no justification. I would like the Prime Minister of my country and her family to be absolutely beyond suspicion. Now, in the context of dealing with Judge Żurek, who is perhaps not the most important judge in Poland... Because it's not about that name, it's about the suspicion that we're dealing with custom cases and responding to the political demands of our rulers. This isn't the right way. A good way would be, for example... 'Cause the biggest issues I'm thinking about are those big money scandals. And here was the speech, for example. about buying V.I.P. aircraft. It's really huge... [[And what was the Platform doing?]] I'm talking about the rulers right now. And you'll be talking about the opposition as usual. I'm the opposition, I'm talking about the rulers. So I'm talking about the V.I.P. incident, no bidding, etc. This needs to be examined, it has to be said: it was the fault, it wasn't the fault, we examined it, we didn't examine it... But I also wonder who in Poland will investigate the issue of caracala. [[French.]] 'Cause when I hear a high representative of the MON is on the newspaper board in an authorized - Or not, I don't know. An interview, in a newspaper that appears and is considered by some people to be a very serious newspaper, and says: I'm the one who finished the caracale... If I was CBA's boss, I'd be there the next day. Why? It would seem that this should be done by some MON service, counterintelligence, I don't know... But do you have any trust? Because I don't trust those servants to handle it. Because it concerns the Minister of National Defence. In my opinion, this is where service such as the CBA should enter and be interested in these caracals. It cannot be that such an affair is in the air, the minister is running and does not answer any questions about these matters, completely ignores it, we have no serious statements from the Prime Minister... Well, somebody's got to check it out. Someone should say... Not that it'll dry up like other things. [[The Platform Members are investigating this.]] That's what I'd like to draw attention to and... [[I mean, your friends are working.]] I said about the caracals because I have more confidence in the CBA than I do to Minister Macierewicz. And I'd expect someone to check it out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borowski. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'm going on, I'm finishing up that statement right now. Namely, I would like to say a few words about prevention. Because the Minister mentioned prevention here, but, as I said, it didn't develop very much. And I think we should talk a lot more about that, because well thought-out prevention, if it works well... Well, it's really hard for me to say exactly how many, but probably about half the big scandals can be avoided this way. And here, at this one point with Marshal Borusewicz, I disagree. Namely, he questioned the CBA's development of rules, so to speak, the client's relationship with the official. All over the world, where, I would say, prevention is being carefully treated, this is one of the important methods that anti-corruption offices deal with. They prepare instructions on this matter and carry out training with officials. It's even about some phrases, some words you use. Let's say the client comes and talks to the clerk, e.g. something like this: wouldn't it be possible to do something about it? Well, that's hard to convict, isn't it? This can always be avoided, but this is a phrase that an official should immediately set in a specific way, his reaction should be defined. I'm not making instructions here right now, but this reaction has to be determined. And in various situations, the official should behave in a specific way. If he does not behave in a specific way, he is unfortunately subject to sanctions. This is the first case. And I think if it's not there yet, it's wrong. The second thing is tender. I specifically asked the Minister whether the organisers of large tenders were obliged to inform the CBA that such tenders were organised. Well, some people tell, others don't tell, there's no obligation. However, it should be specified that, above a certain value, information about the tender should be mandatory and that the CBA officer, of course properly trained, should take part in this invitation to tender, should sit there and watch how the tender has been made, assess the terms of the invitation to tender and then how decisions are made. If such preventive measures were to be taken, many things could be avoided. And finally, Minister, I'm going to say that the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office is walking on a thin line. I have already explained why, especially with us today, when there is no independent prosecution, and when unfortunately we know from recent history examples of absolutely political action by this institution. At a time when Mr. Mariusz Kaminski was the boss and unfortunately used methods that were then judged highly reprehensible by the court, you were his deputy, but, as I understand it, you were off the case. I hope you've just learned your lesson. I wish you well understood your role, because it's very difficult. And so that you don't take orders simply politically, so you have the courage to say no when your experience, which you undoubtedly have, tells you that this order has that character. Because the term will end, sooner or later the term will end and will remain or the opinion of a good CBA boss, about a man... [[I'm reminding you of the time.]] That sentence is coming to an end. Either there will be an opinion of a man who understood his role well and who may be an example to others or directly opposed. The first one I wish you, and the other one. No, no, no, no, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. [[And that's it.]] [[We don't know.]] Well, let's see if it's over. Don't call the wolf out of the woods. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Truism, but I think that Truism should resound at the end. It is said that corruption is a cancer that hits the functioning of the State and must be effectively combated. Of course, effectiveness is the method, it's the procedure. There were a lot of voices in the discussion today, which I identify with, but I want to bring it to some point. Why does the Civic Platform believe that the CBA should operate in police structures? That's why it's a strict action. Police, not even suspected of political action. That's why. Because the CBA has to exist. But do we think it's in these structures? Strict police activity. That's the first point. The other one was like this. And it was very wide-ranging, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz emphasized it, Senator Štark, all of them actually. That the CBA is mainly for control of power. That's why Donald Tusk left Mariusz Kaminski, not his man. Because you have to control your own. That's what being is. Because in power there are always temptations. That's the point. And you won't say 'Cause that's what everybody knows, and that's where the speech was... Why Judge Beetle? The impression is clear. Because he courageously and uncompromisingly exercises his constitutional obligation as a member of the National Council of the Court of Justice and its spokesperson. It is the constitution that commands him to fight for the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. And he's being harassed for that. Because it's no coincidence that out of more than 10,000 judges... I'm not talking about style anymore. What did Senator Shark ask? Handing out... and about these standards. There were already arrests at 5:00 a.m. Well, that can't be right. Minister, I was approached by strangers who were watching my work, and they asked me in my office, "Senator, aren't you afraid?" [[What?]] 'Cause you just bullied Minister Zioba with your questions. That's the kind of question I've been asked by a lot of people. [[Immunity protects you.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, that's the feeling. That's the feeling of people. I'm not scared. And I'm definitely going to expose these... faces to one. And Judge Żurek is proof that despite... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] This is a series, a whole chain of actions that... and the CBA, whether it wants or doesn't want to... You sign in and it shouldn't be like this. What we've been talking about here, that's what we've been chasing. This can't be right. The CBA must indeed deal with the most important tenders. We hear the groceries were even non-negotiable. Well, there's something... and the CBA isn't there when you break the procedure when people hear... and control in marshal offices is managed, and nothing comes out of it. Well, nothing's coming from them. I appeal, and in fact I join the appeal, because this appeal has already sounded many times here, so that the CBA is an institution that pursues the idea, the true idea of fighting corruption, with the most serious corruption. The property claim could be one or the other, better... Ladies and gentlemen, there may also be a number of mistakes. I don't know the details, I won't go into it, but the point is, the CBA can't be an instrument for... Unfortunately, yes. I have to say it with pain. In some cases, especially in this one, it is seen. The authority of the CBA cannot be compromised, otherwise it is the political police, not the police office to prosecute, and it is to pursue effectively. And this effectiveness, as Marshal Borusewicz said, is the comparison of this here I miss. How many cases are being brought up and how many cases end in the process... I understand that not every half or every half will end in judgment, but a serious percentage of these cases should end this way. We don't know what he's like, so why spend money when it's completely ineffective? I mean, there's a police officer who's also... It's not like you guys have a monopoly and the police can't fight corruption. He's on it, too. There must be some division here because of the gravity of the problem. That's why I think you should pursue the idea... Now, as you know, changes cannot be made, it is clear. The point is that at least you have the role of society, the opposition that wants to know how power works... so that you do your job and meet the expectations of society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u86	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] [[The voice from the room: It's already run out of time...]] [[It was you guys who could, and he can't?]] [[The voice from the room: In fact, it can no longer...]] [[Maybe, maybe. There you go.]] Anyone can sign up. Please don't protest. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll be brief. Well, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for this important, substantive information about the activities of the service in 2016, which has been submitted. I think the Minister's speech outlined a panorama of the issue that stands before the service. I was particularly interested in the section on the issue which is currently particularly discussed in public space. Here I am thinking about wild reprivatization in Warsaw. This issue is particularly shocking to the public. We already know that we have clearly dealt with pathological actions in which fragments of state authorities were also involved in officials or various representatives of the judiciary. From this point of view, this is a matter which requires a very careful explanation and showing that the Polish State will not tolerate such irregularities on such a large scale. The Minister himself admitted that the information that appears in public space... that we may be dealing with a $4 billion worth of property... maybe it is more, maybe less, but this government of greatness fell out of the Minister's mouth and this shows the scale of this operation. In this context, too, it is worth paying attention by congratulating the officers you are directing... because I am aware that, for some media, the office is particularly censored, as well as in some political environments, it is particularly censored. Of course, I was appalled by the opinion expressed by the leaders of one of the opposition parties that the Central Anti-corruption Office should be terminated. And such announcements have been made recently, maybe not in this... It is in the context of revealing the scale of the various, unfortunately, irregularities that we are dealing with in Poland that shows that perhaps he was behind such statements of interest, not only political. Therefore, it seems to me that in this particularly sensitive aspect, of course, we need the functioning of the Central Anti-corruption Office, which conducts its activities in a professional, lawful manner, and, on the other hand, we also need precise legal provisions that will eliminate the sphere of understatement. As in the case of issues which are examined by the Office. Because where there's discretion, where there's different interpretation possibilities, there could be... There's an old saying: opportunity creates a thief. So this could also be an important element here. It is therefore a reflection for the whole of our House and for the legislator in general that in the field of law we should try to be clear, in a particularly precise way, to describe all procedures, competences, scopes so that such temptations do not arise. As far as Warsaw reprivatisation is concerned, we have been dealing with a systemic possibility of developing this type of activity. Of course, it was distributed in years, it was spread over various links of procedures, which allowed certain persons who were not allowed to do so to acquire assets of value, as the Minister mentioned, estimated within the limits of PLN 4 billion. This is of course a social loss, and this is also the problem of those who are estimated to have 40,000 people who have been deprived of their homes, but it is also a matter of the functioning of the state. I would like to draw attention to one thing on this occasion. Namely, this wild reprivatization of Warsaw unfortunately led to the situation that the climate towards all reprivatization activities Even where there is no doubt that they are in accordance with the law, with procedures... At the moment, it's all on censored in the context of public opinion. That is why I dedicate here to the Minister that these 50 proceedings or about 50 proceedings you spoke about should be completed as soon as possible so that the atmosphere of reprivatisation can also be cleared. Because the point is that where it is conducted according to the law, where there are legitimate claims of former owners, so-called. former owners or their legal successors, they did not suffer for faults that were not their faults, but a group that simply decided to make this an easy source of enrichment. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister once again, wish him good luck in this difficult task of running the Central Anti-Corruption Office and, through the Minister, wish the officers, who are doing their duties in a reliable manner, every success in their service and in their personal lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u88	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I inform you that the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Waldemar Sługock, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Thomas Grodzki, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Zientarski and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome. [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Shortly, we beg...]] There you go. Minister, you have no time limit. [[Voice from the room: Free...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know I've taken a lot of time, so I'm going to try to present my position briefly, answer... I will begin by thanking you for all the words that have been said here, including the words of criticism that I humbly accept. This was constructive criticism expressed on different sides. Thank you for the thank you, which I will give to the officers of the Central Anti-corruption Office, because they are performing a difficult service for the Republic. Of course, I'll give those words of thanks to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the establishment of the Central Anti-corruption Office was a good step in this direction to combat corruption in a real way in Poland. For more than 10 years of existence, this service has been well placed in order that in Poland the phenomenon of corruption is really combated, marginalized. And what I want to say is that if the Central Anti-corruption Office as this central government authority were to miss out, I think it would be bad for the fight against corruption in Poland. Of course, you can think about whether the head of the CBA is properly placed in a system. At the moment it is a central body of government administration subordinate to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government, but, I remind you, it is also cadenced. Of course, the practice was different because you mentioned here the case of Mariusz Kaminski, the creator of the Central Anti-corruption Office. However, I think, most generally, that the position of the head and office itself should be strengthened, because it will only be of benefit to the country. These 11 years of functioning have shown this in a clear way. Ladies and gentlemen, handing over the powers of the CBA to the police or other services now would be a step in the wrong direction. Let me just remind you that the problem of corruption, which is a phenomenon striking at the essence of the functioning of the state, because where there is corruption, citizens have no guarantee of respecting their fundamental rights... I don't speak here. Only about the right to free development, about the right to free competition, which is really the axis of the democratic system of the state, but I am also talking about the right to life, even this right, I am talking about the right to security. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years of the operation of the Third Republic of Poland, the issue of corruption at the highest levels of power has actually been neglected. Only the establishment of the Central Anti-corruption Office has resulted in a real change of attitude in this area. And of course, as Marshal Borowski mentioned, Poland has been promoted, but I remind you from where we started. In 2006 we were in the ranking of corruption perception This is the most famous Transparency International ranking, this is not the ranking that determines corruption, only this is the ranking that determines the feeling of citizens, we were probably, I speak from memory, on the seventy-seventh place, next to Burkina Faso and other such countries. Right now we're probably in eighth place, aren't we? So you can see a very serious promotion of Poland when it comes to perception of corruption, all the more so... And this is one of the rankings which shows that Poland has taken the fight against corruption seriously. I believe the establishment of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, his actions have contributed to this. I also think that this is an important institution, and managing it is a difficult task, it requires independence. This institution is endowed with the attributes of power, and it is far-reaching, sometimes deep into the rights and freedoms of citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, power is only a duty. That's how I feel about it. He doesn't have any rights, there's just responsibilities. And that is the issue of carrying this burden. I assure you that I bear this burden, understanding it in terms of: just care for the common good, the services of my homeland and the responsibilities that are associated with it. The boss must be independent and independent. The office that I have the honour to run, as well as the officers of this office, are independent. I don't think they're gonna run out of determination. I don't want to refer to particular cases here. As for the courts, ladies and gentlemen, this is one big case... I'm going to refer to this because Judge Zurek is not just a single case that CBA took care of. Let me remind you of a very big case, corruption throughout the appeal court. Recently, there have been further arrests and immunity has been requested from the President of the Appeal Court. It has been established that since 2010 30 million PLN of assets have been embezzled on the basis of various types of fictional contracts, in which directors and many others have been involved in this court. This is one of the cases involving judges, but there are also other judges. And I don't want to say that the office only deals with the case of judges. Where there is corruption, the office reacts and reacts decisively. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to tell you about the fraud of bank loans in huge quantities and I have also talked about the Wołomin SKOK. It's not like the office doesn't deal with the Wolomina SKOK case. I just want to remind you, for the record, that Wołomin's SKOK has been taken over by criminals. It was the SKOK authorities who initiated the case at all, who informed us that there is a crime, a pathology. That's where the whole thing started. So here we have to say, for, let's call it, correctness, reliability and truth: these people are temporarily arrested, and the case is a very serious matter, pending in the Gorzow State's Attorney's Office. This is really about taking control of it by criminals. I just don't want to. What I want to say from this place is very clear. In the sense that we are dealing with pathology inside, the SKOK authorities were the first to report the suspicion of committing crimes within this single SKOK. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the office is also dealing with the issue of the Caracale tender. That's something they said the office wasn't here at all. This is a very serious matter. Of course there's an investigation. I can't tell you everything. There's an investigation on this, and the D.A.'s office is on it, and she's entrusted this investigation to the Central Corruption Bureau. The case is under investigation. It's not like it's beyond our interest. We know this is serious. It's the same with the other things you've been asking about. I tried to talk about it, but right now there's no time to talk about any of these things. Finally, I just want to say that we will certainly not run out of determination to look at the power of our hands. You stressed that the role of head of the CBA is difficult. We know who the authority belongs to right now and who is exercising that authority. I was trying to say that there are certain actions that have been taken and that have not been taken before, although I do not want to say that the former Central Anti-corruption Office did not do anything at all. I would like to say that in key processes, e.g. on the functioning of State Treasury companies, measures have been taken to check the functioning of these entities in a comprehensive manner. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of de lege ferenda's postulates, how the boss is to be placed or to strengthen his role. E.g. in Ukraine, this body is actually elected by Parliament. This is, of course, a matter of Polish parliament and making the right decisions whether to change the government position of the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, whether it is to be a central government authority, or perhaps an administrative body such as the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Only that the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is constitutionally empowered in the Constitution. This is an open case. But I want to talk about a very important, fundamental matter here. The role of the CBA is a very important role in combating corruption, and the issue of the independent position of the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office is an element of ensuring that this office operates properly and independently. The more independent it will be from the political factors in question, the better it will be for the service, because then it will be able to work in real terms. Like I said, there's a cadence. As it turned out and as the practice showed, this term of office is apparent. So it is a question to think about: how to change the law so that this institution, which I think has no doubt already had its merits, does not destroy and destroy? Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u90	Thank you, Minister, for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of the results of the operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2016. I'm about to announce a recess. [[15 minutes.]] Dismissed until 3:45 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 26 to 15 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, published in print No 506 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The report of the two joint committees can be found in print No 506 Z. The Commission takes the following position: The High Senate is ready to adopt proposal I, i.e. adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to point out that Mr Mariusz Solarz, President of the Citizens' Committee of the legislative initiative, together with her colleague, is among us. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to encourage you to vote in favour of the amendments. These two sets of amendments aim to ensure that Customs officials who perform police functions, seeking people who abuse rights, are treated as other officers. Although the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal refers to officers, the justification is already being given to all those who have served as police officers. This is a group of about 400 people. Compared to our debate, we have some information. The first one... I'd like you to consider it. It was dominated by information that the cost was not calculated. Well, they're roughly calculated. From the Seym debate it is known that it would cost only 93 million PLN. I repeat: this is about 400 people. And if we had accepted these amendments, we would have prevented people performing similar tasks, almost identical ones, from being treated very differently within the unified National Tax Administration. Finally, I would like to tell you that yesterday was a very difficult day for many customs officers in Poland. It was the day people found out whether they had a job or not. On that day, we made our decision. We don't have full knowledge of this yet, but we know it's more than 4,000 people. Among these people is also the one who was complimented here for perseverance, for defending customs officers and for this partial success, which is the adoption of a citizens' legislative initiative. He's also out of a job. It seems that under such circumstances we should reflect, give what is due, to those who are due. And we wish to the President that your experience, knowledge and determination should be properly used. We thank you again for this effort. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u95	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Marian Poślednik, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Maciej Grubski, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Piotr Wach and Senator Kazimierz Klein. In addition, Senator Krzysztof Słoń and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski were the committee's rapporteurs. I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. I'm calling a vote. Who among you is in favour of this law without amendments? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mrs. Marshal, wait a minute. Mrs. Marshal, just a second.]] Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 57 votes against, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws. [[Applause]] [[The first initiative of the citizens' party.]] Thank you very much. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 517 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Senate Health Commission was discussing amendments which were notified to the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. We voted on the amendments tabled by the senators during the debate, but at the committee's meeting he passed the first proposal. For adoption of the law without amendment. I recommend to the High House, on behalf of the Health Committee, to adopt such a proposal in a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the senators Leszek Czarnobaj, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Mieczysław Augustyn, Barbara Zdrojewska, Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Andrzej Stanisławek submitted their conclusions. I don't see any calls. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Who among you is in favour of this law without amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm declaring the results... Please report the results. I'm declaring the results. The votes were 89 senators, 59 votes against, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; it is a Senate print No 516 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Chróścikowski and Duda... Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 89 were in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. Thank you. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 514 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please, Minister Radziwiłł... Please vote. Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 90 were in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. Thank you. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 512 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 harmonises the terminology of the provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 88 votes against, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] I therefore conclude that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 2 exempts farmers and farmers' organisations from the obligation to inform about seed obtained from their own cultivation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 8]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted in favour, 62 votes against and 27 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. Thank you. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forestry tax. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 515 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 Senators voted, 64 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on agricultural tax, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act. Thank you. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 511 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Czarnobaj, Duda, Rulewski... Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries. Thank you. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Public Roads Act. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 401 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Potoj to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Public Roads Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Thank you. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on recognition of the merits of Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński for the Polish State. I would like to remind you that the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution was presented before the interruption and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 518 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senators Libicki, Pupa and Ryszka... Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 75 votes against, 2 against and 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the recognition of the merits of Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński for the Polish State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 21 and 22 June, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator George Wright. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the courtroom because the senators will now make statements. Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please!]] I would like to make three statements, including one statement on behalf of a group of senators. On behalf of the group of senators, 22 senators, the ladies of Grażyna Sztark, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Barbara Zdrojewska, Barbara Borys-Damięcka and the masters of Bogdan Klich, Tomasz Grodzki, Piotr Flork, Mieczysław Augustyn, Władysław Komarnicki, Andrzej Kobiak, Grzegorz Napieralski, Marian Poślednik, Andrzej Misiołek, Ryszard Bonisławski, Leszek Czarnobaj, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Kazimierz Kleina, Sławomir Rybicki, Waldemar Sługocki, Aleksandr Pociej and on behalf of his own... [[And Jan Rulewski.]] ...and Jan Rulewski I am making a statement addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, The Polish society was shocked to learn that in the police station it is possible to torture a young man accidentally detained until his death. And it was even more appalled when it found out that despite the existence of evidence of this atrocity in Poland in the 21st century, in a large, civilized European country, and not in the African banana republic, it was possible to hide the perpetrators of this atrocity, and after a year of public disclosure of the films of this act of barbarism, it is possible not to take political responsibility for those who are undoubtedly responsible for this situation. On May 20, the whole of Poland could watch shocking scenes on private television, as 25-year-old Igor lies handcuffed in a dark toilet and asks the police not to beat him. At the request of the police, he takes off his pants and emptys his pockets. There's no aggression on his part, there's just fear and terror. And yet, a policeman surrounded by his colleagues twice tasers him. Igor wriggles with pain, and after a dozen minutes he's dead. In a bandit way, he gets killed by cops. Worse still, the fact happened a year ago and the movies have since been in possession of the police and the prosecution's office, and yet no one has been held responsible for the death of this man. And he probably wouldn't have done it if the power had been able to take over the whole recording, just like it was in communism. But that's not all. Once the whole of Poland and the world found out about this case, finally a machine for bringing out state justice began. She moved and stopped... on selected police officers from Wrocław. And the minister responsible for the police, instead of squealing, talked about the fact that once policemen beat harder and were not accounted for; and the minister of justice said that Igor's death caused not torture, but the means he had used before. This case has several dimensions. One. As an unexplained, hidden, sweeping carpet, it casts a powerful shadow on the vast majority of policemen, daily conscientiously and often at risk of life fulfilling their duties and caring for our safety. They have the right to see to it that politicians make sure that the policeman's institution enjoys social trust. Two. Politicians who are responsible for the police, including chiefly Deputy Minister Zieliński, who promised an explanation of the case a year ago and failed to comply with his word, are still responsible for the police. So at the same time, he's not responsible for anything, and he's certainly not responsible for this disgraceful case. The third dimension. We still don't know what the reasons for the miserable effects of surveillance of police officers involved in this case are. We do not know, for example, what is the involvement of Prime Minister Beata Kempa's head of law. And four. Almost exactly 4 years ago, the Senate of the Republic of Poland celebrated the 30th anniversary of the death of Grzegorz Przemek, who was beaten by the militia of the Polish People's Republic. In that case, as in the case of Igor, they tried to conceal the responsibility of the officers, and even more so. The party machine. In 2013, despite protests by some politicians, the Senate recalled that the highest party and state authorities were responsible for Przemek's death. We, the undersigned, also remind you that the Prime Minister is responsible for the death of Igor for the highest party and state authorities ruling Poland. We expect an in-depth investigation of the responsibility not only of the police who killed Igor in the toilet, but also of the people who allowed these facts to be hidden, and above all, we expect that in the government of the Republic of Poland we will remove from the supervision of the Police people who are compromising this case. Thank you, and... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u99	Mr. Senator, you used your five minutes to make a statement. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to follow such a statement after such an important and sad speech. But the matter I want to say, which I am referring to the Minister of Finance, is also saddening. It concerns precisely that day, today, when we had the pleasure of adopting a citizens' bill amending the Act on pension provision of police officers, ABW, AW, counterintelligence services, etc. and some other laws. Let me remind you that this was a citizens' bill which provides for the inclusion of customs officers in the pension scheme applicable to other uniformed services. What I'm saying is that it was broken today... We found out that Mr President And I'm gonna straighten it out here. Sławomir Siwa, President of the Customs Association PL, did not receive until yesterday, and until yesterday was the deadline, the service proposal. That was not the proposal from Deputy Minister Banasi. He wasn't a secret co-worker and he's not a retired... In accordance with the repeated declarations made by Minister Banasi, all other workers should receive such a proposal. This has a special dimension, because Mr Sławomir Siwa is the representative of those citizens who have brought in the bill. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Why... Is it true that you have repeatedly intercede for your employees, as president... [[Excuse me, Senator...]] Yes? [[Excuse me, can I?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u101	The statement must not concern... [[Oh, I'm so sorry.]] ...the points that were considered at the current Senate meeting. Therefore, Senator, you will be able to make this statement at your next meeting. Now all these things, these threads have been exhausted, according to the will of the High Senate. [[Mrs Marshal, I would like to say that this concerns only the President, not the bill.]] Whether it concerns your president or the bill... This concerns those topics that we have already discussed here. So, after consulting a lawyer... [[Good. I'll make this statement at the next meeting.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] And there you go, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. Dear Mr. President, I allow myself to address you not as the head of state, but as the chairman of the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. It follows from the work on the bill establishing the Committee that you are involved in a duly significant honoring the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. You are the author of the bill, which entered into force a few days ago. And, above all, the person responsible for the celebration of the anniversary on a national scale. Of course, the government has much greater financial and organisational capacity. The relevant Multi-annual Programme (Multiannual Programme) for the years 2017 to 202021 has already been developed and is waiting for formal acceptance by the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, neither the multiannual programme nor the work on the bill provides for the possibility, and in my opinion the need, of permanent commemoration of the celebrations. I already talked about this in my speech during the debate on the Senate Act. Of course, the values and objectives of the celebration, the priorities and the so-called priorities set out in the law and the multiannual programme are important. soft projects: educational, informational, cultural, publishing, etc. It would be appropriate, however, that, after several years of celebrations, there should be a lasting trace in public space, which will remind future generations not only of the fact of regaining independence, but also of the fact of celebrating his 100-year anniversary. An example is the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Grunwald, which took place in 1910, and the unveiling of this anniversary of the Grunwald Memorial in Krakow funded by Ignacy Jan Paderewski. The solemn unveiling of the monument was an important event, and the monument itself became, is and will be a cultural value in itself. For the record, I do not believe that this permanent mark of celebration must be a monument, a symbolic commemoration. It should rather be a public building serving as a monument as one of several. The ideal candidate for such a role could be the rebuilt Saski Palace in Warsaw. For a few reasons. Firstly, the palace itself has great historical and architectural value. Secondly, the closely associated grave of the Unknown Soldier, the main place of Polish collective memory, began to play its important role since the beginning of the Second Republic. Thirdly, the palace would be properly exposed by the location of Marshal Józef Piłsudski in the centre of the capital city. Fourthly, renovation of the palace would be the main link of urban activities aimed at completing the composition of the Saska Axis and the surroundings of Marshal Józef Piłsudski Square in Warsaw. Fifthly, it would be possible to locate in a rebuilt palace one of the important state institutions, e.g. seat of a valid ministry MON, MSWiA or General Staff, or one of the institutions of Warsaw's capital city. Sixthly, the reconstruction of the palace has already begun. Lech Kaczyński as President of Warsaw. His successor, Mrs. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, unfortunately did not continue this undertaking. Seventh and last, there are ready-made reconstruction plans, social initiatives, associations supporting reconstruction and is the consent of the public. There is a lack of funding and, above all, a clear decision, political will. This decision and the initiation of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace in Warsaw as a permanent commemoration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence to the President I appeal to you. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Janina Sagatowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I make my statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of Development and Finance. Dear Prime Minister, I was approached by the president of the city and the municipality of Stalowa Wola, Mr Luciusz Nabereżny, asking for support of efforts to transfer to the municipality the tasks of the enforcement body necessary for carrying out administrative execution of the total, i.e. all taxes and charges of local municipalities. I would like to stress that the municipality of Stalowa Wola has been entrusted with tasks relating to the execution of administrative cash claims solely for the charge for municipal waste management on the basis of an agreement with the Head of the Tax Office in Stalowa Wola. The delegation of tasks took place on the basis of Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Tax Administration Act of 10 July 2015 in conjunction with Article. Article 6a (6) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 and 2 of the Law of 13 September 1996 on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. The municipality of Stalowa Wola already has its own enforcement services, the necessary computer program Taxi+ and has a signed agreement with the National Settlement Chamber for the implementation and use of the Ognivo system, i.e., in general, the municipality has the equipment which most tax offices in Poland have and which separate cities already have the powers of enforcement authority under Article. 2 (2) 4 Act of 24 November 1995 on the revision of the scope of activities of certain cities and on urban public service zones. I would like to stress here that, in my previous term of office, I have already sought to grant such powers to the municipality, unfortunately without success. In view of the arguments put forward, the city of Stalowa Wola again, through my presence in the Senate, asks for the inclusion in the list of cities which had already obtained the powers of enforcement authority under the said regulations, and to give the city of Stalowa Wola the power to carry out administrative execution of the total, once again I stress, i.e. all taxes and charges of local municipalities. The granting of enforcement tasks by the tax office to the municipality of Stalowa Wola to a limited extent is very unsatisfying for the municipality. The city of Stalowa Wola is prepared to take over the execution in its entirety, i.e. all taxes, including property tax and local charges. The introduction of such changes, the granting of such powers will significantly contribute to the increase in the income of the municipality and to more effective measures to enforce the municipality's debts. I would also like to stress that so far the tax office is not always effective in the execution of low amounts. Such a conclusion can be drawn from the observation of the execution of mandates, where typical practice is e.g. an overpayment of taxes on arrears. Direct enforcement activities are more often used in case of tax arrears and charges, the amounts of which are significant. In addition, the municipality, the city is additionally charged with a bail-in fee on the amounts enforced and therefore incurs the costs of the transfer of the claim. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would be grateful for taking into account this proposal of President Stalowa Wola and of course mine, because this is my city and my constituency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My statement is addressed to Minister Mark Grybarczyk, Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Minister, he asked me for help from the Lublin Branch of the Union of Fish Producers on, as stressed, the deprivation of fishing farms for a number of activities described under the name.Aquaculture providing environmental services in the framework of the new edition of the Operational Programme According to the interested parties, the Minister's latest plans are that the entire allocation, all the money earmarked for sub-measurement, aquaculture providing environmental services, will only be used for marine fisheries. Inland fishermen will be deprived of EU aid, and this, as the stakeholders say, is the special agricultural production department for joint fish production. Currently about 70% farms produce fish in ponds owned by the Treasury, leased from the Agricultural Property Agency. Interested people also point out that Lublin is traditionally historically rich in fishing farms. Many of them were created in the 16th century. Fish are fed with natural feed and ponds on the basis of water permits granted to fishermen are at the same time retention tanks storing water. However, the obligation to keep parts of hydro-technical structures and equipment in good condition was transferred to fishermen free of charge. The example of France was cited, where the State actively supports the measures to prevent flood problems also by private fishing farms. In 2016, according to the Ministry concerned, through its officials, the Ministry announced that it would maintain the essential for the existence of fisheries sub-measures resulting from priority 2 of the This was to be the equivalent for fishermen of investment aid and area subsidies resulting from the rural restructuring programme. Therefore, I ask the Minister to provide information as to whether it is true that the entire allocation, all the money earmarked for sub-action, aquaculture providing environmental services, will only be used for the purpose of sea fishing, i.e. for the purpose of Chapter 1 of the Operational Programme "Fishing and Sea" for the years 2014 to 2020? And would inland fishermen then be deprived of EU aid? Please inform me about the issues presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-01-senat-42-2.u107	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal started and your marshal ended.]] Exactly. That's what happened. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 25]]
