ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u1	The planned meetings of the parliamentary teams shall: - Parliamentary Group for: Veterans, Veterans and Repressed Persons - hour 9, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Team of Lviv Friends - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Military and Territorial Defence - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Earth tennis - hour 13, - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Language Team Esperanto - hour 15, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Privatized Hospitals - hour 18. In addition, I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Infrastructure - h.m. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 17, - Senior policy - h.m. 5:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u2	Thank you very much, sir. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the law on bailiffs and executions, - on the amendment of the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Act on Public Procurement. The reports shall be printed in 1846 and 1860 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to item 13 of the agenda... [[There's a formal conclusion.]] But before that... The formal request was made by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask the Marshal to declare a break and call the Seniors' Convention to withdraw from the agenda of this meeting point 16 of the Sejm, i.e. to inform the President of the Council of Ministers of the state of road safety, and instead to put into session the information of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General about the actions of the prosecution against the suspicion of committing an offence of illegal financing of political parties Law and Justice and violations of the law on political parties. It is clear from the press that the PiS Convention in 2015 was financed illegally from the money of a group of European Conservatives and Reformists. The European Parliament will ask for reimbursement of these funds. The question is whether the assassination and acquisition of 19 million from the Polish National Foundation does not prove that Law and Justice have recognised that foreign sources have dried up and will have to look for money elsewhere. Once again, it may also prove to be a bad idea that the Attorney General is a politician, because no one else, like the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice himself, as the President of the Solidarna Polska party, was accused of financing his convention with EU funds, with money allocated to the conference on climate change. A modern one will ask the State Election Commission whether the Law and Justice report reveals funds from foreign sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u4	Thank you, sir. And I am sorry to say that this was not a formal proposal, but a statement, Mr... [[This is a formal request for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention, Mr. Marshal.]] No, sir, it was not a formal proposal. Mr... Yes, Members' statements, at the end of the agenda. [[This is breaking the rules of the Sejm, Marshal.]] We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute, the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Paweł Bańkowski, Marek Krzękała and Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The question about rising prices of hard coal for individual consumers - to the Minister for Energy. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. Mr Bańkowski is the first question to be asked, isn't he? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u5	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We're basically in the heating season. Our Members' Offices receive disturbing signals from residents who report galloping, even dramatic increases in prices of hard coal for individual customers to heat their households over the last 2 years. This information is confirmed by market analysts, including representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Coal Sellers, who indicate that coal prices in fuel units in September 2017 are about 20% higher compared to the same period of 2016. On the example of only one sortment from the Piast mine, a popular nut: the price of coal in September 2017 increased by 100 PLN compared to September 2016 - to 810 PLN. These not very optimistic forecasts are also confirmed by representatives of energy companies who claim that at the top of the heating season the price of the nut may even exceed the amount of PLN 1000. I have the following questions: Does the Ministry of Energy monitor the level of coal prices for individual customers? Please provide information on the evolution of average coal prices in fuel units throughout Poland during the various periods: August, September, October, 2015 and 2017. Does the Ministry provide for any instruments of support for individual customers to stop this rise in coal prices?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u6	Thank you. Answers the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u7	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind using 30 seconds of time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u9	Thank you very much. Minister! It is difficult to talk about such complex matter in such a short time, but I wanted to ask about the real reasons for the increase in coal prices. On the one hand, the government boasts a profit of PLN 1.5 billion for the first quarter, but on the other hand coal prices went up. Isn't it just that this profit has been made in such a way that the costs have shifted to the individual recipient? In addition, the new mining strategy has set up an increase in the production of oil, not coarse coal, needed for individual customers. Isn't it that you don't invest in mining that way, that's why prices are higher? And last question: What is your assessment of the relationship of antismog resolution [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Silesia with increases in coal prices? I would like you to comment on this, because I think we will ask further about the price, the increase in heat prices in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u10	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a second question concerning the assessment of antismog resolutions of our seymists, submitted by the Marshals of Silesian and Małopolska Voivodships. I would like to say that these resolutions have withdrawn 2 million t - unfortunately thick coals - from our market, which has created a gap, because de facto if decisions were to be taken, this had to be communicated earlier, especially so that the Polish Górnicza Group, which is in this difficult restructuring process, could prepare itself for appropriate actions. Because today we have some absurdity. The absurd thing is that thick coal has to be had, so we lose the price and, unfortunately, 2 million t of the product has to be replaced. And these are individual recipients. I am very critical of both resolutions of these two voivodships. I am very much in favour of taking care of the air, but we must do this wisely, because later, unfortunately, we will not remove 2 million from the hat, especially after cooling the mines during the previous government, when, we all know, there was a situation of underinvestment, halting the development of mines in the years 2008 to 2015, especially in the years 2011 to 2015. So that the decisions of the marshals of both voivodships are very critical. As regards the question of monitoring the price level of coal for individual customers, the Ministry of Energy is constantly monitoring the current situation on the domestic energy coal market on the basis of reports published by the Industrial Development Agency as well as the Energy Market Agency. The analysis of these entities relates to the level of prices of coal sold directly from mines. And here we have a reference to the Polish Mining Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Tauron Wyborcja, Lubelski Coal and Węglokox Kraj, i.e. those entities that operate on the Polish market and are significant in terms of the situation in terms of coal quantity and price. When it comes to monitoring, we use the price bulletin of energy carriers there. I'm not gonna go into details, but I'm gonna go a little further in order to keep my voice open when it comes to time. As regards the average price increase of coal produced by the Polish Mining Group in the period of August 2015 - September 2017 - I would very much ask you to listen - it amounted to 16% , with an increase of approximately 65% in global coal prices during this period. This is the scale of differences in global prices and domestic prices. I dare say that already today thanks to the fact that we have the Polish Mining Group, the energy sector has earned several hundred million zlotys for this price barometer, which is the Polish Mining Group, because it offers a significantly lower price of coal than the one on the world markets. And that this price has increased, that's it. It's just market action. If this was not the case and the situation in the Polish group would be financially difficult, it would be right to ask about the damage to the company, that we do not use this market situation, because it is natural that if world prices increase, the market works. We all expected the restructuring process to make mining market. So it is hard to wonder that the Polish Górnicza Group and Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and not only because other groups such as Bogdanka, such as Węglokox Kraj, react to price increases. But I'm showing the difference: 16%. up to 65%. In terms of extraction and price per month, August 2015 in terms of heavy sorting, 718 zł, decrease in 2016 to 706 zł, in 2017 we have an increase to 820 zł. The growth is, I am not saying that it is gone, but if we have the opportunity to benefit from the fact that world prices are rising, how should the Polish Mining Group behave? If the price of oil is rising on foreign markets, are we not supposed to react to it? Well, we're reacting, and no one's gonna argue with that. This is market action. September 2015 - 736 zł in terms of thick, drop in 2016 and now we have 829 zł, October 2015 - 713 zł, unfortunately for October 2017 we do not have data yet, but we have a difficult situation which I have said. It is about these resolutions, which actually talk about taking care of the climate, but very strongly hit the Polish Mining Group. As far as the Hawk Coal Company is concerned, this is it. actually specific, because there is less than a few percent for individual customers, while most are coke coal. In fact, in 2015 he was after 470, 405 in August 2016 - these are so-called. class 2 thick sortements - now we have 560, September 2015 it was 472, 405 in 2016. This year is actually 560 today. As for Tauron The extraction of Tauron The extraction in August 2015 was after 640 PLN, in 2016 - 602 PLN, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2017 - 702 zł. Bogdanka has a small volume on the individual market, so because of the lack of time I will not bring it closer. On the other hand, I think it is very important what I would like to show you when talking about coal shortages. And here, Mr. Marshal, just a minute, please. The Polish Górnicza Group for 8 months in the years 2015-2017, the plan between January and August: in 2015 this was, already counting KW and KHW, more than 18 million, 18.210, the implementation was 18 million, so there was a deviation of 0.15% , in 2016, we actually had a greater deviation, was 17 045 thousand. The planned extraction, we recovered 15,5. The thing is obvious, we found this, not another situation, so I will not explain it here, because I think it is obvious and clear to all of us in Poland. However, the plan for this year is 18,530,000, we have a performance of 17,620,000. and we have actually 0.9 deviation in the August stage, in a situation when we took over Katowice Holding Coal in a very difficult situation. Thus, as we look at the volume, it is clear that we are in a situation very comparable with the one from 2015 and at the end of the year we will probably have a return to the situation from 2015. In fact, it has been much better since 2016, and so here we have a upward path, which is, I think, good information, because we are beginning to control the investments and the volume that we are trying to extract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u12	Minister, just point out that we have a lot of questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I'm sorry. And that's why I'm asking you to keep your time on the question. Please, the additional question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u13	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Another question. From 1 January 2018, fifth-class boilers are to be introduced. We all know that these boilers can only be sunburned with eco-pea. This regulation was introduced by Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. I wanted to ask you: How are coal companies prepared to produce this eco-pea, and how do you feel about this regulation in the context of, for example, the actions taken by the marshals? We all know that mules and fleet concentrates are the main principles of resolutions of the Sejmik Voivodship of Silesia, as well as of the Sejmik Voivodship of Małopolska, so this 2 million tons of coal is probably not the result of this action. And in light of that, I'd like to ask. The autumn-winter period is approaching. Always miners or former retired miners used the equivalent of coal, they could buy coal. What is the progress of the work on this subject, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we've been discussing this for almost two years now, is this bill already being drafted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u14	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this concerns the X-generation boilers - they are to respond to the European Union's suggestions on air care. And since the Polish Górnicza Group was given the opportunity to prepare for this - the preparation of an appropriate coal sort - therefore investment works are currently underway so that we can prepare a certain volume that will be burned in these boilers. And let us note that a process is beginning, which causes us not to immediately have a full stock of these boilers on the market at the customers' disposal, so it allows us to adjust over a certain period of time, years, during which these boilers will enter the market, the volume of coal as far as these coal boilers are concerned. They actually have an impact on the fact that unfortunately you have to design the extraction a little differently. And unlike what happened in the Seyms... ♪ 'Cause on the one hand ♪ I share this concern of the seymists and marshals when it comes to climate issues. And that's actually a good idea. I would just like to state very strongly that it is a pity that the marshals did not give a certain transitional period, e.g. year, one and a half or two years, so that the Polish Górnicza Group can, knowing that these regulations will come in, reclassify investments during this difficult period. And that's all I want to emphasize. Mr President, really, the 2 million are true, and this is also related to mules, because the fleet concentrates we wanted to withdraw. But when it comes to mules, especially coal thick, it's He really caused us a problem. We have always had a big problem with coal that we could not - because this is another technology of mining this coal - deliver to the Polish market the right amount of it and we started - Węglokox The country started doing it well - these works in the Polish Mining Group. And suddenly, after trying to fill this market, to compete with coal that comes from the outside, because this assortment really complements us with external coal that we have a problem here. On the other hand, when it comes to what you mentioned, namely deputies, it was submitted at the Economic Committee meeting, and we already have a decision this week, the project - we are back to the idea of a one-off payment. And I think we're gonna have a chance to take care of this project sometime soon. So I hope that this really is a very important problem for pensioners - for many years there have been difficulties in solving it - it can finally be settled this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u16	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Anna April, Andrzej Gawron and Dariusz Starzycki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question about the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods, which assumes a more effective and faster recovery of illegally lost goods. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Jarosław Sellin, Minister of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, answers. I would ask you to ask Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u17	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! According to information from the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Poland lost about 516 thousand as a result of World War II. works of art. In June this year. The Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods has entered into force, which provides for a more effective and faster recovery of unlawfully lost goods. The Act also implements the European Union Directive concerning the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union into Polish legislation. In practice, it means faster and more efficient recovery of cultural goods lost by Poland, and it is both about those which are obvious, i.e. monuments registered in Poland, as well as about the better possibility of recovering archival materials, archives, museums that are included in inventory of various museums, and which are not monuments, as well as library materials, i.e. books that are missing or may in the future disappear from Polish collections from the national library stock. Minister, I have a question: What barriers must the Polish state still struggle with in order to recover lost cultural goods? The second question will be asked by a colleague.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u18	Minister, I would just like to ask how the recovery of cultural goods is technically carried out. Is there an appropriate department or administrative post in the ministry that deals with this? It is 70 years after the war, and indeed the longer the time it takes, the harder it is to recover the works of art that have been plundered. Is there any idea of setting up an X-Files like the police that would deal with such difficult cases, because it's certainly a big dimension, and, as I say, time is getting less and less? Another question. With which institutions, services or institutions abroad the Ministry cooperates to effectively recover [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lost cultural goods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u19	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Thank you very much for these questions, and the subject is really important, interesting and we have recently received another instrument for effective action in this area. First of all, it should be pointed out that the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods will facilitate the recovery of Polish national cultural goods located in the territories of other Member States of the European Union, because it regulates this precisely because it introduces into the Polish legal order a special procedure for judicial proceedings provided for in the 2014 Directive, which is the procedure for the return of the cultural property in the territory of the Member State from which it was illegally removed. This procedure shall apply between Member States. This procedure, which is a particular type of restitution of cultural goods, shall be carried out before a court of the State in whose territory the cultural good has been brought out, at the request of the Member State seeking reimbursement. The other party to this proceeding is the current holder of the cultural object. This procedure may be applied to cultural goods classified by the State from which they were removed as national cultural goods, provided that the export of such goods is restricted by the legislation of that State. The return proceedings shall take place before the competent courts of the State from which the refund is to be made, and the parties to the proceedings shall be the Member State requesting the refund and, on the other hand, the current holder or owner of the cultural object. The Act, in accordance with the content of that Directive, establishes the primacy of heritage [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a cultural Member State over the rights of the owner of the cultural object. This is therefore generally a strengthening of the position of the country from which the cultural good was illegally removed or stolen in relation to the existing legal situation. In addition, by introducing clear standards of competence for bodies in restitution matters, the law eliminates the dispute of competence between the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So far it has been so for many years that there have been cells dealing with such matters both at the Ministry of Culture and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to be honest, sometimes we have walked into a parade, saying so a little colloquially, but that's actually what happened. Sometimes even in both resorts it was not known that they were doing exactly the same thing, they started the procedure for the same work and there was just some chaos. Now it's all in order, it's all in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. In addition to the above, the Act introduces solutions to counter the trafficking of cultural goods from illegal sources. This purpose is intended to introduce the obligation to keep records of cultural goods accepted or offered for disposal by economic operators specialized in the trading of monuments in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This regulation reduces the risk of abuse, violations of the law when these entities issue expertise to demonstrate that the monument is not subject to export restrictions. To answer the second question about the barriers that the Polish state still has to deal with, I would like to say that of course there are many problems, they are diverse in nature. In the first place, barriers should be identified within the legislation of the individual countries where the work of art has been found. Often works of art have passed from hand to hand since the war or have been subject to trade, which in the legal order of many countries makes it impossible to effectively rehabilitate objects on a civilian road. There is, of course, a problem of acquisition in good faith by a particular citizen who has no idea that a given work is simply stolen, that it is actually a crime. Political issues, such as the temperature of intergovernmental relations, are often essential for the recovery of works of art, especially from public collections. This applies especially to countries outside the European Union. Another problem related to the restitution process is also the lack of sources that allow unambiguous proof of the identity of the work with the Polish war loss and the demonstration of the Polish proweniety of the object. Unfortunately, many works of art were not catalogued before the war, and the existing documentation was lost as a result of war or robbery. So that here we very often rely on evidence of witnesses or photographs, which are often imperfect, because before the war they were generally black and white, and can not always be treated as 100 percent proof that the work actually originated in Poland. Russia is a separate problem. Russia has introduced special legislation which assumes that it will not return any cultural works that come from the pre-war territory of the Third Reich, i.e. this includes Polish Silesia, Pomerania, Warmia and Mazury today. Russia also interprets the question of Gdansk, which was not the territory of the Third Reich, but according to Russian legislation was. We have a problem with this in our relations with Russia. When it comes to the question of which institutions we cooperate with, of course, it is by necessity the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because if we find a work somewhere at auction, if it is to be sold there, we immediately launch diplomatic institutions, embassies, consulates, so that they intervene, so that they simply make security quick. The point is that we can secure such a work so that it is not sold. We work with the police, of course, with the Border Guard, but above all with the facilities. The main state office, which seeks and recovers cultural works, especially those stolen during World War II, is the Department of Cultural Heritage abroad at the Ministry of Culture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what it's called: the Department of Cultural Heritage overseas and the Strat Wars. A special part of this department deals with war losses, searches for these things and intervenes. In the register, in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage database we currently have 63 thousand. records, i.e. entries concerning such things that we are looking for, about which they were actually proven to be from Poland. As soon as they show up, we intervene immediately. I must say that we meet very often here simply with social assistance. People play detectives themselves a little bit, looking for things like this abroad, in the country. Today, in the age of digitalising the resources of cultural goods very often it is very easy to find a work, which is, for example, more and more easily. in museum warehouses, because warehouses are also digitalized. So, some things that we had no idea before, we didn't know that somewhere in a warehouse, were being revealed today, in a digital age. So that, in my opinion, even in connection with this technological process, in the coming years, there will be an acceleration in the recovery of cultural goods, especially those from World War II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u21	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u22	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During World War II, we lost over 500,000, just as we've already spoken here... I have a question: How much has been recovered from this number so far? How is it estimated how much was lost irretrievably, was destroyed in the course of the war? Does the Ministry monitor art auctions in Europe, as well as in the world, on which such works, masterpieces, are offered? At the same time, I have a question as to whether these data also include cultural goods from private resources. In addition, I wanted to ask you about this situation related to Russia. If this is the case, I have a question as to whether the Polish government is planning or conducting any actions in the recovery of Polish cultural goods left behind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Especially in the East End, before international courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u23	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u24	Mr President, as regards the overall number of recovered cultural goods stolen during World War II - I do not know what time perspective you are interested in, but, let's say, since 1945. - I'm not prepared to answer that right now, but I promise we'll give it in writing. However, to show that there is some dynamics, I have data from the last year and a half, from 2016 and a piece of 2017 that passed. 342 objects returned to the country, e.g. The 18th-century Chinese furniture from Wilanów, from the palace in Wilanów, returned from Germany, 337 ethnographicians from a very valuable collection of the Archaeological and Ethnographic Museum in Łódź, also returned from Germany, a self-portrait of Lizinka de Mirbel from the National Museum in Wrocław, this is a painting that came back from the United States, a painting by Franciszek Mrażka I'm sorry, the second part of the question I don't remember. [[The Russians.]] Uh-huh. As far as Russia is concerned, one can say this: a slightly different legal culture, a different attitude towards international agreements. To be honest, talking to Russia is also difficult because it's actually always a conversation - even I've had that conversation - that's basically the question: what's it for, what's it for you, but for us something else. And this is very difficult because we have e.g. in the Olsztyn archive a very large part of the Royal archives and the Russians are of course very interested in this, because this is their city today. And that's too bad. From our point of view it is difficult to have such conversations, because we believe that generally what they have taken away from here, often treated as German property, but should return to these original places, to original sacral objects or museums. Whereas these conversations, suggestions are a little bit, you can say, out of law. So that the exchange of goods, you will give it to us, and we will give it to you. It is very difficult for us to accept such a logic of conversation on this subject. With Russia, you just have to be patient, wait a little bit for the situation to change, for some new opening, some reset on this matter. Here, the reset would be really useful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In other cases, maybe not, but in this case of course. You need to keep in touch, be patient, talk, and wait for the right moment when it can be effective. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Czesław Mroczyk and Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will ask a question about the activities of the supervisory authorities in relation to a gross violation of the law by the Ministry of National Defence in proceedings for the delivery of medium-sized aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country. Question addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Bartosz Kownacki and the President of the Public Procurement Office, Ms Małgorzata Stręciwilk, Secretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence, responds under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am surprised to note that the Minister of National Defence will answer the question of proceedings against the contracting authority, which is the Minister of National Defence. The Minister of National Defence will explain what should be done by the supervisory authorities in relation to his outrageous conduct. But little of that, this answer today is to be given by the one responsible for this outrageous order. I ask what the Prime Minister of the Polish Government has done to an official who has grossly violated the law, and the Prime Minister of the Polish Government sends to answer this official, for whom this procedure should be taken. It's some kind of totally outrageous scandal. Mr. Marshal, I ask you to stop this discussion and make sure that the one on whom I demand information from the Prime Minister of the Government does not take the floor. We already know the explanation - translation, not explanation - of the one that led to this scandal and gross violation of the law, and I want to ask a question about the reaction of the supervisory authorities, about the reaction of the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the deal. A contract of PLN 2.5 billion was concluded with a gross violation of the law. This was confirmed by the National Board of Appeal and confirmed by the District Court. Is Poland a country in which such things are contained in a collusion? Because it was the National Board of Appeal that the contracting authority stated that it had acted as part of the pre-emptive intention to order the order to Boeing, although it was well aware - it was due to documentation - that there were eight other tenderers who could execute the order. Is Poland a country in which there are no public procurement rules in which there can be a collusion in contracts for PLN 2.5 billion? This is the biggest public contract of this government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask what is the reaction of the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, not the one who conducted the contract.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u27	Thank you, sir. And I answer that the Prime Minister's reaction is to indicate the Minister to give him an answer. [[This is the standard of your government.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can also be surprised, I can be surprised, that the civil platform politicians have the courage and decency to speak, believe that they have the right to transport the most important people in the country. The scandal is what you've led to for eight years of government. The scandal is how you behaved after 10 April 2010. This is a disgrace. You guys haven't been able to buy a plane for the most important people in the country for eight years, and now maybe because you have complexes, you see your inability, you try to accuse those who could make a decision, carry out this procedure... [[Why did you make a contract in a conspiracy?]] ...to gain very good conditions, more, these planes will lead to Poland. These planes are already flying today, sir. And what a scandal it is for you to speak on this matter, even if there are two facts. First of all, and even as Deputy Minister of National Defence, you know that this isn't the biggest bid, and you're using this argument here... [[And what's the bigger one?]] ...to conquer the ball. This is not the biggest tender, because, for example, the Ministry of National Defence concluded a contract for crabs, for Regina's project under these governments. This is twice the bid. Mr President, at least so much truth. Second line. As you say about a gross violation of the law, please point out to me the wording of the threatening violation of the law in my judgments - I have it, the ruling of the KIO - and then... [[They're on the website.]] ...we'll be able to talk because that's not true either, so that's how we can discuss it with you. This procedure was controlled by the relevant services that supervised it during this procedure. This procedure was subsequently controlled by the prosecutor's office, which dismissed the proceedings without seeing any infringement of the law which would qualify for legal liability. More than that, you're talking about eight other suppliers. Mr President, you were at the defence committee meeting, and I am able to give you all the documents again. According to the requirements that were still being prepared during the Civil Platform, there could be only two companies: Airbus and Boeing. And because of the constructions that were presented, and the requirements in the Ministry of National Defence, not from the times of Law and Justice, only earlier, only one construction, the Boeing company, met this requirement. [[These are your translations.]] There was no way to purchase this plane from another company unless it was from an intermediary. And that's where we get to the point. Unfortunately, I can't talk about everything because there's been a special services committee meeting, and I can't talk in this room. The question is, whose business you're in. We bought airplanes from Boeing, bought them cheaper, by several hundred million, 700.800 million, than in a competitive procurement procedure. We believe that if we hadn't bought it in this way, the aircraft would still have been gone in Poland for the next few years, because there would have been no construction, it was coming out of use, and indeed the services indicated that there were different doubts - I can't say anything more here - in relation to the various suppliers who could offer this equipment to the Polish government. Would you like the Polish Prime Minister, the Polish President to be exposed to danger, potential danger due to the delivery of this aircraft, if we did not use this mode? More than that, it's a bigger problem with military procurement. And that's why I don't agree with the final judgment. We know, and you know that there is a record that allows the services to react in situations where, for example, there is. communication systems for the Polish army would potentially be supplied by a company from the UK, and in fact it would be a Russian company. We know very well that this would be a huge threat to our security. And what, then we should also apply the Public Procurement Law and say: please, let the Russian company, let the Russian army, or Russian plants arm us? It is known that such breach rules are in the case of state security. In my view, this breach was wrongly applied by the court and that was the case, but it is also worth saying that it was the National Board of Appeal that agreed to conclude this agreement, stating that the public interest is more important than the potential private interest. There was an agreement to this deal, so the law wasn't broken. As for the rest of the speeches, I would ask, Mr Marshal, that the President of the Public Procurement Office completes the answer to the questions of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u29	You're welcome, Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to your questions regarding the powers of the President of the Public Procurement Office, whether a review has been carried out by the President of the Public Procurement Office of this procedure, I answer: it has not been carried out, and this is because the basis for the control of the President of the Office in the award of the contract by free hand would be to assess the formal conditions for the award of the contract in a free-of-hand manner. This assessment was carried out by the National Board of Appeal and the district court, which also provided for in the provisions of the Public Procurement Law, found in this respect an infringement of the provisions of the Act, so in this respect the duplication of checks by another competent authority... [[And in a different way?]] ...on public procurement would be pointless. On the other hand, the grounds for the withdrawal from the audit by the President of the Office were also the fact that the National Board of Appeal had given its consent to the conclusion of a public procurement contract in a separate manner provided for in the Public Procurement Law. The National Board of Appeal may do so in specific situations without assessing whether the conditions relating to the negotiated procedure have been respected, but given something else, it is a matter of public interest. And here the National Board of Appeal, given the public interest, has agreed to this agreement... [[No, she fired the ban.]] ...and this agreement is valid in the light of the ruling of the National Board of Appeal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing was the question about... [[Kara.]] ...punishment. In this respect, the contracting authority or an entity in the public finance sector shall not be liable for the imposition of financial penalties by the President of the Public Procurement Office. This liability relating to financial penalties imposed by an administrative decision is primarily subject to the contracting authority of the sector. In this respect, the President of the Office... of the administrative decision may not formally issue to an individual of the public finance sector a breach found by the National Board of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u31	Thank you, Chairman. Please ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In this case, we were dealing with an explanation of the guilty in the case. Minister Kownacki can tell you things. Finally, he said he didn't agree with the verdicts. Guilty in this case has the right to do so, that is his problem and his responsibility. On the other hand, I asked the President of the Council of Ministers in Poland, what is the position of the President of the Council of Ministers in relation to the actions of the official. And the Prime Minister is sending this blamed official to give an explanation on his behalf. I say: this whole speech by Mr Kownacki I take as an explanation of the man who is involved in the case. I still expect this from this speaker, the reaction of the President of the Council of Ministers on one of the largest contracts in the public sphere, worth PLN 2.5 billion, in respect of which the National Board of Appeal and the District Court in Warsaw have stated that there has been a gross violation of the law. The National Board of Appeal has stated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the contracting authority acted as part of its pre-emptive intention to order the task to one tenderer, although it knew that there were eight others. This is an outrage. Prime Minister, I call on you to act on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u33	Are you the Minister of... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! The guilty man just spoke from this speaker as a representative of the Civic Platform. [[Stop it.]] You haven't done anything about it in eight years. You should have done it differently and then you could have kept your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u35	And we move on to the next question. The question of Mr Agnieszka Chrobak, Ms Chrobak and Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, on the intervention and proposed legislative changes in the Waste Act for environmental damage by operators breaking its rules. A question for the Minister of Environment. Mr Sławomir Mazurek corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment. The first question is asked by Mr Sitarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Currently, in many places in Poland, we have a problem with the huge number of illegal landfills and with the impunity of breaking waste segregation permits by some entrepreneurs. One example is the huge landfills of waste in the Keys or Gorlice in Małopolska, which threaten life and health. Local governments report a problem related to the lack of effective legal solutions to counter such practices. Is the Ministry planning to amend the Waste Act in the near future, which will oblige entrepreneurs seeking authorisations to process waste, so that they have to have policies that cover the costs of exporting waste and do not charge local governments? Shouldn't an environmental impact report be included in such authorisations? Are there currently resources in the Ministry to cover the costs of replacement works by local authorities on illegally collected waste that has been generated? In this respect, we actually have a flawed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u37	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, because the waste management sector is very important. This is an area of economic activity which also requires special care. Success in the fight against VAT, VAT fraud and other areas show that it is important to take bold action to resolve these problems systematically. With regard to today's experience of the Environmental Protection Inspection, we must say that even when an inspection of such a person who commits an environmental offence, he will stop, even when the prosecution stops it, it is very often that the courts are maneuvering in such a way that they suspend the decision of the Environmental Protection Inspection so that they do not act to the detriment of entrepreneurs. And just as driving without a driver's license is prohibited, so can the court's decision to suspend proceedings and further such illegal practices may take place. This is, of course, a systemic problem, but I believe that there will also be courage in this Chamber to work together in this area to resolve this problem. As far as the work we are doing at the Ministry of Environment is concerned, work is underway on the proposal to amend the Waste Act. Our Ministry's actions are aimed at improving enforcement efficiency both by control authorities and those which issue administrative decisions on waste management. The proposed amendments to the Waste Act include: the introduction of waste records only via an electronic database on products and packaging and on waste management, in short BDO. It is also planned to abandon the aggregate waste transfer cards. There were situations where somebody said he only checked out once a month, so he could say it was a collective card, right? Even such excuses appeared during inspections or inspections. The changes that we will be able to achieve through the BDO will enable ongoing online control, as I mentioned, not periodic, as has been the case so far. This is to verify the data on waste transfers with the data contained in the waste transfer sheet set up in the database. We'll cross that information to be sure. This instrument will be able to be used both during the control of specific transport and remotely by the competent authorities. He will also allow us to reduce whether to identify the risks or those that are taking action. This system will also generate such reports. In the case of municipal waste management, changes are prepared to seal the waste collection and marketing system by introducing a system allowing for each confirmation of the acceptance of such waste by authorised entities and the settlement of the mass of waste collected from the sites of individual municipalities on a daily basis by the so-called. municipal waste transfer card. Such a form of drawing up of documents used for the purposes of waste records integrated with BDO will also allow the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspections to have current access to documentation confirmed by municipal waste collectors. The Ministry of the Environment is considering proposing further legislative amendments aimed at sealing existing legislation and facilitating supervision and control of waste management activities. The introduction of a financial guarantee mechanism for waste management entrepreneurs is considered in order to prevent waste from being dumped by their owners. The aim of this solution is to secure the financial resources for the replacement of enforcement procedures for the disposal and management of abandoned waste. This is a flagship project. I really want this bail to be the tool, because the transport of waste is not the transport of substances that are environmentally neutral. It is obvious, but it must also find its reflection in the law. Here's the form of bail. In many areas, many communities demand such a deposit. It's rather the other way around here, but we're going to be very consistent about putting in bail or that kind of financial security. I would also like to say that in some cases the application for authorisation of waste management was made by entities whose financial or property situation was not sufficient to protect against the negative effects of their activities. Here too, as in the case of VAT, there are poles that get permission. Then we find abandoned waste in the barn, and the municipality has to solve this problem. We are also considering a change in the environmental inspection process, and it is these 7 days that we do not need such a notification. This change is necessary because the need for prior notification of the upcoming inspection often prevents irregularities from being detected and hinders the operation of the Environmental Protection Inspection. Of course, today an inspection may enter in certain cases, but dishonest entrepreneurs then use it to complain to inspection that it violates their good name. These kinds of legal tricks are being used, and the courts look at it this way, not different, but this is already a systemic problem for another debate. Environmental Resort also analyzes ongoing cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] infringements of waste management rules which may result in further amendments to the legislation in the near future. Speaking again on the question of measures: it is crucial that, as long as there is an entity responsible for these waste, he is responsible for its disposal. The Environmental Fund under the Land Protection Programme has such measures, but let us bear in mind that it is not a matter of leading to a situation where dishonest entrepreneurs at the expense of the state optimize their production. As they optimized in the case of VAT, they optimize in the case of waste or want to optimize. It is also important that these measures, which are in the framework of the replacement, be on the side of local governments. In cooperation with the voivodship, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u39	Thank you. Additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My additional question concerns the powers of the Regional Environment Directorate to control investments located in the municipality. Which investments in the municipality can control WDOŚ? Next: Is RDOŚ in accordance with the Waste Act a competent authority for the authorisation of waste collection and waste treatment authorisation and has the right to withdraw this authorisation? Regarding the control of entrepreneurs: What are the control limits of the company concerned and is there a duty to notify the trader of the control of the WDOŚ in advance? Will this type of recipe also be verified, so to speak? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u41	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the competence of the Chief Environmental Officer is concerned, that is to say, the Director-General of Environmental Protection - I apologize, many of these institutions have been created in the times of our predecessors - I would like to say that when it comes to these checks that you have asked about, they are carried out in closed areas. That is to say, this competence and this main control burden are on the part of the Environmental Protection Inspection and it is it that intervenes or carries out this type of action in accordance with the control plans. At the same time, the powers of inspection need to be strengthened because inspectors cannot stop the vehicle that carries garbage today. They have to turn to the police on this. Here, of course, we work closely with other state bodies, but this is certainly an element that should be strengthened in order to strengthen the inspection as well. As far as controls are concerned, the Freedom of Business Act is at the heart of entrepreneurship, and those checks carried out by the Environmental Protection Inspection are linked to other controls. So here these limits, which result from these obligations, from these provisions of the law, are being implemented, but often there are attempts to avoid control. This period of 7 days that has appeared causes us to arrive, and on the spot, you can say, is already cleaned up. So here, of course, inspectors try to do this within the law and within the law, especially in cooperation with the local community. Very often this is very helpful in our work. At the same time, the Chief Environmental Inspector is now launching an educational programme aimed at strengthening cooperation between all state bodies so that we can be even more efficient in all areas that are precisely concerned with the cleanliness of our environment. This is also a very important area for me related to waste management and here we will not bend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Katarzyna Lubnauer, Zbigniew Gryglas, Mirosław Suchoń, Piotr Misilo and Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, on the construction plan for the Central Airport. Question to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, the representative of the Government for the Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland, Mr Mikołaj Wild. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, there has been a discussion for many years about the Central Airport, today called the Communications Port. Of course, it is important because it is a strategic investment. But yes, I would say, quite unexpectedly, the government announced a plan to build a CPK in Aries. And as if not discussing with the idea, or rather with the decision made, I ask for this decision taken. This should be preceded, in our opinion, by such a deep study, probably by a new transport strategy, some research. Meanwhile, this discussion and this investment was, I would say, quite quietly, and it should bounce in the transport environment, because it is an important decision. It is hard not to resist the impression that this is a political decision. If this is not supported by economic analysis and analysis from a transport point of view, we will face a huge disaster. And that's why these questions. And yes, first of all, is there a current transport strategy? Because we know that the aviation market surprises even positively - I am talking about transport across the country - and what was current 3 years ago is already obsolete today. So is there such a strategy? How does she see this aerospace component? That's the big picture I'd ask for. How will CPK affect regional airports? Which airports is that a threat to? I would like to know when the study was conducted for this investment, indicating that this best location is the Lambs, not the other place. What were the studies, who conducted them, how long did they last? Was it one team or a couple of analytics teams? What strategic advantage do the Lambs have? Has the Okęcie-Modlin duoport variant been analyzed in the studies as CPK? If so, what causes this idea to be rejected? Is the Lambs the final decision? What were the weather results? That's what I'm asking for security reasons. Is there a schedule? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much will it cost, both the port itself and the infrastructure? Have economic analyses been carried out? What are the options, the best, the worst and middle ones? Who's gonna pay for this? And for the moment, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u45	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first I wanted to thank you for these questions, because they are helping to start an information campaign on the Central Communication Port. The question is, I'm afraid I can't fit in with the answer in six minutes, and I'm asking you to be forgiving. On the other hand, with regard to the most important issues, I would like to inform you that, first of all, we are dealing with a whole range of analyses. And so far, all the analyses that were prepared, both in 2003 and by the Interministerial Localisation Team of the Central Airport for Poland, both the feasibility study carried out by the Ineco-Sener consortium in 2005 and the feasibility study drawn up in 2010, which was based on certain concrete forecasts for the development of the aviation market, clearly stated that a central airport should be built. Despite clear forecasts and although already foreseen in 2010 that around 2020 Okęcie will have capacity problems, these decisions remain decisions, these recommendations have not been implemented. Now it's 2017 and we already know that in fact in 3 years Okęcie will have a problem. There will be queues for passport control, longer waiting time for transfer passengers. And that's the trigger that triggered the decision. Something has to be done about it, because the aviation market in Poland is growing very intensively and at the same time we have huge delays, because Poles fly four times less often than residents of the old Union and one quarter less frequently than residents of other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. If we want to catch up with the market, we need to keep the pace of growth, and with the current infrastructure that does not provide travel, comfortable travel, even with transfer carriers, it is impossible. Therefore, the trigger that triggered the decision that you should look for a new communication port is the continuous and inevitable problems of Chopin. However, we are also aware that the communication port has a chance to change the way in which we travel in Poland, has a chance to change our way of life. At present, we are still in the partitions as regards the development of rail transport infrastructure. As for the railroad, if you take a look at the Polish railway map, you can precisely determine where the tear lines went. And what does it turn out to be? It turns out that, on the contrary, than is in most countries, the decision centre of the Republic of Poland is the worst communicated, because the decision of the Czar Congresswoman did not have a developed railway network. And here we have the second point, the second very important component of this project, i.e. a new transport system. In this way we not only increase the chances of the airport, but also help Poles to travel in Poland, because in fact traveling between cities such as Rzeszów and Koszalin from the perspective of the 21st century is traveling between not too far away places. The situation in which we must travel at least 12 hours from Rzeszow to Koszalin or from Rzeszow to Szczecin is a situation which none of us can agree to without reservation. Therefore, there are proposals for the extension of the railway network, which will allow to overcome this distance within 5.5 hours, distance from Warsaw, from the port of Solvency, to Krakow or to Katowice within an hour and 15 minutes, with the proposal which we make, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it does not require the introduction of high-speed rail within the traditional meaning of this word, the TGV speeding at 350 km/h, it is enough that we reach a speed of 200.250 km/h. So much for the big picture. Thank you. [[It's the biggest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u47	Thank you, Minister. Additional question - Mr Gryglas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Minister, you haven't actually answered any of the questions or answered a small part of them. In your statement, we have actually heard what is the present state, a diagnosis of the transport situation, with which we agree, of course. Indeed, the delays are great and I agree that this rail map in particular looks like a map of partitions. I would like to focus on the following issue, assuming that the analyses you are talking about - I would like to see them, but I assume that this is the case - they point to the appropriateness of this investment, and I would like to ask what will happen to Okęciu, if there will remain a military port, as it is today. How will the land be used, or will the land be disposed of? If so, who's gonna be dumping the land? Or is there a very innovative concept? I'll point to that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in some countries government centres are being built, where they can concentrate, for example. The whole government administration. There are countries like this, and you probably know them, because of the lack of time I'm not going to point that out. In short, how will this enormous potential of the area be exploited, assuming that it will be released by the Central Airport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u49	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u50	For today, we can only say that the civil air traffic from Okęta must be transferred to the Central Communication Port if we do not want to risk that the Central Communication Port, the port of Solvency, will share the fate of the new airport for Montreal. There are also other cases that show what happens when you build a new port serving the city and leave a second port within the city. So what we can say about this is that we are already determined today. However, the question remains, of course, what about this attractive area. It is 600 ha almost in the city center, connected by two high-speed routes, as well as a railway network. And here we have 10 years to make that decision. On one side there are - as I have allowed myself to draw attention - defence considerations, because, as you have pointed out, we have there also military airport, but on the other side there are costs of maintaining these 600 ha for this purpose. For today's decision is not made, I think any option is possible. Those decisions should be taken around 2025 so that adaptation work can begin after the transfer of traffic from the port of Chopin to the port of.Solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczynski and Mr Jan Kilian on the grant of a special allowance of up to 6 000. PLN from the special reserve of the State budget for the prevention and eradication of natural disasters. The question is to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Aleksander Anczynski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's question was due to the situation that it was - I hope it is no longer - in social assistance centres where a special allowance of up to 6 000 is granted. PLN from the special reserve of the State budget for the prevention and eradication of the effects of natural disasters. My parliamentary office was visited by people injured on 11 August 2017 as a result of a storm that visited, among others. the district of Chojnicki, providing information that they are obliged to submit invoices relating to the destination of the above mentioned. target. Despite the many information provided that no invoices need to be presented in such situations, this is also what the Prime Minister spoke about, twice in our district, some of the social assistance centres demanded them. At my request, the Faculty of Social Policy of the Provincial Office in Gdansk provided the above mentioned information in writing. means that invoices should not be presented. Please clarify the settlement rules for the special benefit granted. Please clarify in which situations the municipality may request invoices and when not. The information provided shows that the slowing down of this allowance is precisely what we are talking about here today. You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u53	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The storms, which passed through part of our country, and especially through three voivodships: Pomorskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Wielkopolska, caused significant damage. This happened especially at night from 11 to 12 August, as well as in the following days, but mostly this storm passed through that tragic night. According to the estimates we have, from the work of the committee which estimated these losses, the information provided by the voivodships shows that in these three voivodships about 12 thousand have suffered damage. families or individuals, households. They've been affected by their effects, their destruction, over 10,000. residential buildings and about 10,000. economic buildings. The government rushed to help the victim immediately. They have been modified under the influence of these events in the amount of benefits, increased, which I will mention in a moment, and appropriate solutions have been introduced in the form of regulations of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning simplifications concerning the reconstruction of damaged facilities. These special benefits, because that is what the Member asks first of all, vary depending on the amount of the loss. They are all granted on the basis of the Social Assistance Act of 12 March 2004 in accordance with the guidelines introduced by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, in particular as regards the procedure and amount of quotas. These first allowances, aimed at restoring the viability of their homes, intended to provide access to drinking water, food, medicines or basic household appliances, are up to 6 000 allowances. zł, that is what the Member asks. The question simply formulated as to how to account for them is the answer, which we have given many times, that these benefits do not require invoices or bills. This is the first aid provided by the State through voivodships and municipalities, namely social assistance centres, which make appropriate decisions. There's no basis here, there's no reason to demand receipts, invoices. This is the first aid for those who have been affected by misfortune. It is different for these higher benefits, which can reach 200,000, for the renovation and reconstruction of damaged houses or up to 100,000, for the renovation or reconstruction of economic buildings for the basic needs of families. There are required settlements, because these are already larger amounts, so bills, invoices. The way in which these special-purpose allowances are to be settled should be defined, it shall be determined, in the decisions which they issue under the authority of the executive bodies of the management board of the social assistance centres. These individual decisions should include the information he is asking about these larger amounts. Allowances for reconstruction and renovation are to be used because they are special allowances intended for a specific purpose, they must be spent according to their intended purpose. If this is a repair and reconstruction allowance, only such measures can be financed from these amounts. They can't be used for other purposes. So here's the fact that the authorities granting these benefits require settlement is understandable and obvious. It is different, I repeat once again, in the case of benefits up to 6,000. zł. If it has happened that, for this reason, the honourable Member is asking, there have been delays in the transfer of special benefits, it is not good. This cannot be understood and accepted. It's irrational in such a case, I would say, the decisions of individual municipalities. I would like to say that all the resources that the voivods have requested have been, and in a very urgent manner, immediately, you can say, put at the disposal of voivodships and local governments. So far, these three voivodships' applications concerned the amount of over PLN 104 million for all the special benefits I mention, and they were immediately mobilised. The highest number of applications were for up to 6 000 allowances. zł, more than 9 thousand. These larger benefits are still under way, because they require preparation, they require the preparation of the front of repair, investment, and this takes longer. But of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in any case - I would like to declare very clearly - when the voivode asks for the mobilisation of further funds, we are prepared to forward them immediately in accordance with the proposals of the municipalities, which submit to the voivodships demand, requests, and voivodships who are present to the MMA in these matters. Applications shall be sent immediately to the Minister of Finance, which shall mobilise funds from the relevant reserve of the State budget for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. And an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This is a good time to thank also the Minister, the Government, for their very efficient and rapid intervention. I would like to thank you on behalf of Alexander Forczyński and my own. Minister, it is known at this critical moment that there was a lot of intervention going through the parliamentary offices. Mr Aleksander Mrówczyński, through his innate modesty, did not mention his great commitment to solving these problems, but I would like to draw attention to one important aspect, namely in all the counties that have suffered this terrible defeat, there are different moods. I don't mean to say that there are political considerations here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, this issue of interpretation varies. Does the Minister provide for any very concrete measures to clarify the broader treatment of information for individual local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u57	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules should be known to everyone. Many actions have been taken to get to know them both voivodships and local governments, as well as directly the victims. There were even letters sent to those who were injured about what rules of procedure had been implemented and what assistance they could receive. So that not only municipalities, but also - I repeat this once again and strongly emphasize - the people concerned have information about this. The communes are different. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the municipalities who have acted smoothly and empatheticly on this matter. There are many such municipalities, most of them, although there are also some delays or not fully understandable interpretation doubts, because the guidelines, principles that apply, are also generally available, are on the websites of the MSWiA, were transmitted during various meetings, teleconferences, speeches, direct contacts, etc., etc. Voivodeships inform at meetings, often go to places where there are the most problems, meet with their uncles, mayors, explain these principles, so it seems that information should reach everywhere. Of course, this is a continuous process, where there are problems, these information and instructional measures are being intensified in order to ensure that the benefits due as soon as possible reach the people to whom they are addressed, because the situation is incomprehensible - and such cases have unfortunately happened - that the funds are transferred from the central budget to the voivodeships, the voivodeships immediately pass them to the municipalities, and between the municipality and the recipient of these benefits there is a time slip. This is a slip incomprehensible, these actions should be taken immediately. And I repeat, in most cases it is, but there are other types of cases and they are all monitored, explained and voivodships, government representatives in the field are doing everything they can to eliminate them, to speed up the receipt of financial assistance by those affected as soon as possible. All the more so because winter is coming and you have to prepare for it, so there is also an issue there. purchase in certain cases of containers. For this we have also mobilised funds for the applications of the voivods who received them from the municipalities. So that it's all done. I'll keep you posted. Is there any impact here on this factor that you have said is a political factor? Well, at least he did, and I hope it's been understood by now, and anyone who's driven by it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think he knows, at least he should know very well that this is not a good attitude, that regardless of political views - because local governments have different political views, as we know, but it shouldn't matter here - the most important thing is that people affected by misfortune, storms receive as soon as possible the effective help that the state has activated, and the legal responsibility, but also moral responsibility of all, including local authorities, is to provide this assistance as quickly as possible. Self-governments do not need to involve their financial resources, of course, if they want and can further support these actions, they can, too, but for all the proposals - once again I want to make it very clear - the funds from the state budget are being mobilised immediately, there is no such situation as to run out of money for something. We are prepared for this in reserve 4 of the state budget, so-called. disaster, and if there is no funding in this reserve, then we are prepared as a government also to increase or extend to other provisions of the State budget. So that money for those identified by experts or by committees, or by environmental intelligence, cannot be missed. Our first duty is to come to the aid of our citizens. We come with this help, and we also come with the help of municipalities, because we will support and support actions that involve rebuilding municipal infrastructure. According to the estimates we have today, we can say that the losses here are also very significant, because they are currently set at almost PLN 200 million. It's all just...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Okay, Marshal, I'm finishing up, I'm clarifying. But it will be the effort of the financial year not only this, but certainly another. We want to do all of this as soon as possible because of the need to repair this infrastructure. But let me just remind you - here is the last part of my speech and the last sentence - that, unfortunately, when it comes to those who criticize us, let us remember that in 2017 we are still transferring funds to some unsolved flood cases in 2010 and our predecessors have ruled for five years since then. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The next question is asked by Barbara Bartus and Wojciech Skurkiewicz on the risk of environmental pollution, among others. hazardous waste of unknown origin, stored at the site of the former Glimar refinery in Gorlice and which is a direct threat to the health and life of many people. A question for the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek will answer. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u60	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The risk of contamination with hazardous waste of unknown origin which has been deposited at the site of the former Glimar refinery in Gorlice is known to the Ministry. At this point, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive response I received for my interpellation on this subject. However, the problem of this former refinery appears to be much more complex. This issue, which is very important for the health safety of people and environmental safety of the region, is of vital interest to the inhabitants, because, as the media reported recently, there are more than 1600 tons of toxic waste in the area of Glimar refinery, which can cause cancer. The network of links goes beyond the western border - these are all quotes from the media - has its reasons in complicated events, scandalously leading to bankruptcy and a non-transparable liquidation process, resulting in unclear ownership relations. Minister, it seems that the scale of likely criminal actions and the continued impunity of the people responsible for the past and the current state of affairs require massive and coordinated actions by many central authorities, but also services. I have information that the prosecution has been strongly involved in the matter of environmental contamination, but I also have, although not proven, information that the amount of containers stored in this vast area is constantly changing. They show up, they're supposed to be disappearing now, never knowing when or how. Minister, will our government be successful in resolving the bankruptcy of the Nafta Glimar Refinery and, above all, urgently, the current immediate threat to the life and health of the inhabitants of Gorlice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u61	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question and not only for this question, but also for all that you are doing in your parliamentary work in this area. I would like to thank you very much for the consequence with which you are watching this case. She's also consistent with our actions on the fact that... Let's remember one thing: after the mafia and after the VAT activities, in the field of steel, many criminal organizations of fields for their activities are looking at waste management, waste. We're not gonna let go of the trash mob. We'll be consistent, and we won't be intimidated. We will work very consistently in this area. This case is a case where servants work very hard. We are talking about the Regional Environmental Inspector, we are talking about the DA's office, but we are also talking about services that have far wider powers and are also working to rule out this type of action in order to secure it. I'm sure the actions we're taking with regard to the Environmental Protection Inspection are to further increase knowledge, dynamics, to be as efficient and effective as possible in the course of operations... We're definitely going to be in this area here, and this example is very... It's like a lens. you can see pathologies - and consent to these pathologies - which have grown for many years in the Polish system. They didn't create a waste database, they allowed these things, they said the inspection wasn't ready. The criminal market was ready to use these gaps. These gaps we will close the gap after the gap and there will be no discount here for any, even the largest and richest business groups. I will stand very strongly in this position because I know that I have the support of you and your fellow Members and your fellow Member in this area - particularly the Law and Justice Club, but I believe that this is a collective responsibility and we will all be very firm here in this area, all the clubs that we will report in the legislative work, you will, you will be creatively supporting. But it is also a matter of the body. The point is that there is no situation in which even if the environmental inspector prepares very good material and the prosecution gets involved, the court suspends proceedings and the criminal activity can continue. This is unacceptable, in a state of law, in a non-theoretical state there can be no such situation. The issue of the Gorlice refinery - as you said - is very well known to us. The Environmental Protection Inspection carried out an investigation into the risk of hazardous waste deposited there. The Małopolska Voivodship Environmental Inspector has established that the entity responsible for collecting and storing the waste in question is the Financial Office of Multibest J. Gąsior S. Witalińska Gąsior Spółka Jawna. It is also important what is the form of activity of a given entrepreneur. An entrepreneur or a person who, in many cases, is a kind of pillar... But in this case, we have this diagnosis. I would like to remind you that from 27 June to 20 July the Małopolska WIA carried out an inspection of this company and found many irregularities, including collection, storage of waste, including hazardous waste, without any decision to allow such activity. Well, we can't drive without a ticket, we can't drive without a driver's license, and here we just can't. There's so far-reaching insolence. No decision authorising the collection of waste here, no decision authorising the transport of waste, no decision authorising the treatment of waste in installations or outside installations. No waste records, no waste transfer card, no waste record sheet, no waste storage on open, hardened concrete terrain without roofing, exposed to weather conditions. As a result of the findings, the Małopolska WIA took the following actions. He asked the Mayor of Gorlice to take action by ordering the removal of waste from a place not intended for storage or storage. He asked the Marshal of Małopolska Voivodship to charge increased fees for waste disposal. But, ladies and gentlemen, there have been cases where the marshals have imposed even high, increased charges, reaching many millions of zlotys, and then instances of justice of this type point to an unjustified case - a famous case on the Coast. This previously mentioned voivodship environmental inspector, Małopolska WIAŚ, very efficient in fact, also asked the Podkarpackie Voivodship Environmental Inspector to carry out an inspection of entities that have transferred waste to the refinery site according to the findings and operate in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship because today WIÓS operate in such a structure, but this cooperation is complete and thanks to this we also have information, only often the activities of these organizations, say, entrepreneurs who are illegally operating on the waste base, look like when the inspection pushes them in one place, moving to another place under another name, right? Freedom of business is crucial, but in cases where life, human health, environmental safety is at risk, there is a need for further follow-up. An administrative procedure was initiated of its own motion to impose a fine on Multibest for collecting waste without the required authorisation for collecting waste in Gorlice at the refinery site. Let me remind you that according to the article. 194 Waste Act the amount of the penalty for such an infringement shall not be less than PLN 1 000, but shall not exceed PLN 1 million. That's too bad. Małopolska WIÓS has also appeared [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Technical Supervision Office of the Branch in Tarnów, asking for a check of the condition of the tanks in the area of the leak of the substance from the tank with air cork. In this case we have answered, we are here in constant contact. We'll keep you posted. The tests have also been taken, and they are being analysed. We will be sure, because in those cases where there is great money, you need to have very well prepared and verified data so that we do not fail in court and can act effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. Before the additional question is asked, I would like to inform the High House that we are being heard by a delegation of the Polish-Finnish Parliamentary Group from the Finnish Parliament with the group president, Mr Olavi Ala-Nissilä. Hello, my dear guests. Welcome. [[Applause]] And an additional question. You are welcome, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister pointed out that the oil refinery in Gorlice was focused on these problems as in the lens. Therefore, my question is: What are the measures taken by the government and the Ministry of the Environment which it intends to take in the near future to seal this system so that such situations do not occur? Because there's a lot of information coming in from all over the country. Firms of bushes, people planted, pillars that establish a one-off business to only accept a batch of waste. What are you doing as the Ministry of the Environment in this regard? Marshal, one more sentence. Mrs Bartus wanted to complete her question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u65	Thank you. Minister! I wasn't accidentally talking about the service. Thank you for those warm words at my address, but I actually talked to the Minister of the Interior, and I was also interested in the Ministry of Energy, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to what you say, about penalties, about export decisions, everything can be done, but we fear in Gorlice that it will be impossible. These companies don't pay taxes, they say they don't even pay people anymore. So how are we gonna do this, how are we gonna get these hazardous waste out of there and not show up or in Gorlice or anywhere else, so that the law doesn't work again? Because without sanctions... The financial punishment itself may not be a sanction, because it happens most often that people who run these companies do not have any assets on their own, so it will be unenforceable...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u66	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u67	...and someone's gonna have to pay for that garbage shipment, and those dangerous waste needs to be taken out of there immediately and kept them from appearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u69	And then there's the extra punctuation problem. The refinery itself is such a ticking bomb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u70	Thank you, Member. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for that question. What do I want to say? The most important thing is to take preventive action, because today, in this situation where we are, with long-term agreement on this type of action, on such irregularities... When we came to the Ministry of the Environment, there were no such tools. These tools need to be created. We are working on a specific financial mechanism, because if someone wants to manage the waste, wants to process it, wants to transport it, wants to have contact with it, needs to take responsibility and has to have adequate resources. He doesn't have to present such resources today. And this is not the production and transport of cows, but very often these are dangerous substances that can significantly affect the state of the environment and, most importantly, the health and life of people. That is why we are working on a form of financial guarantee, which will act preventively, will safeguard, because in fact very often problems related to waste dumping, with areas demoted on the part of local governments, are on the side of the state. The state is becoming such a tool to optimize quasi-business processes and actually criminal processes. This in the state of law, in the Polish state of consent cannot be granted. [[Applause]] I would also like to say that we are working on a waste database that my predecessor spoke about at a committee meeting that the inspection is not ready for this. We are working on a waste database to track on-line waste so that we have full information about where these waste is, how these waste masses are moving, to keep track of it, and thus to take appropriate action when irregularities are caught. In the Ministry of Environment there is also a team for degraded areas, there all these areas, all these irregularities and gaps are subject to a very deep analysis. There are a number of working groups working there, which prepare appropriate proposals, including legislative proposals. Financial guarantees - we think this will be the best tool, but we still have a long way to go to prepare it well and then make it effective, because it is crucial to prepare such records that... Because today it is also, see, so that the million zlotys is a large amount, as I mentioned, but at the same time it seems in many cases, looking from the perspective of the money that earns crime groups, but very low, since they earn e.g. 19 million on this or if the cost of disposal is 25 million. And we have such areas in Poland that the removal of impurities are amounts exceeding PLN 1 billion. These are serious problems that we must face, and we must also clean up these areas on the basis of risk analysis. That's why we're going to work very closely here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] also with you in this area and continue our work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Szarama on the introduction of a licence for intermediaries in ordering journeys - a question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Mr Jerzy Szmit corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Recently, we have been informed of many doubts about the provision of services and at the same time the charging of passenger transport charges. Such a leading example in this case is the Uber application, thanks to which you can use the services of the carrier. This activity is critically addressed by many licensed companies who have repeatedly protested on this issue. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry: Is it considered to regulate the situation of other private carriers who do not have a licence so that they can also provide their services in full compliance with the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u74	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the problem that you have raised is an important problem and needs to be addressed. In view of the creation of uniform conditions for persons engaged in human transport brokering activities, acting also under the influence of many signals, opinions which have continued to affect and continue to affect the Ministry, on the need for new regulations in this area, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has undertaken legislative work to amend the rules in the area of passenger transport by passenger cars. The main objective of the draft law on the amendment of the collective transport law and the Act on the working time of drivers is to regulate the functioning of the market for the carriage of persons based on equal, fair rules for all transport market participants. An important element of this work is also the increase in the safety of passengers using services contracted by intermediaries and the introduction of mechanisms for more effective control of the regularity of their business activities by intermediaries and co-operating entities. The project presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, which is still in the process of work within the government, provides, among others, for the project. the introduction of a definition of intermediary for the carriage of persons, the establishment of a licence for the transfer of persons, the obligation to commission transport only to the licensed entities referred to in the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001 and, on the other hand, to facilitate the application by the trader to obtain a licence for the carriage of passengers by passenger cars consisting, inter alia, of a national road transport licence. the abolition of financial requirements as a financial security for such activities, the abolition of compulsory training from local topography and knowledge of local law for applicants for a taxi licence and a number of other changes to ensure equal opportunities, equal rules, equal access to the market for all carriers, to all those who carry out transport, i.e. taxi drivers, but also to all intermediate companies. In our solutions we do not infiltrate the communication between the ordering party, between the client and the intermediary company, nor do we infiltrate the relationship between the intermediary company and the entities, the persons who carry out these orders. We just want the taxi market to have a level playing field for all economic operators, as well as for all economic operators, so that the burden associated with it and the requirements that are imposed are uniform. Thus, the draft law provides for the obligation for intermediaries to keep and make available, for inspection purposes, a register of all persons received and transferred for the execution of orders for the carriage of passengers by road at the request of the Road Transport Inspection and the National Tax Administration. The keeping of a register of orders and a register of employed and collaborating entities may also be useful in the event of a complaint by a passenger concerning possible irregularities in the execution of the ordered carriage. There is a procedure for unfair traders operating in breach of the rules in force which will prevent the use of means of communication for which traffic will be outsourced contrary to the provisions of the Road Transport Act. It is assumed that this procedure can be initiated after an inspection has been carried out with the intermediary, whereby the inspection services will determine the activity of the intermediary without the required licence. It should be stressed that the draft law does not restrict the provision of transport services, but merely indicates that passenger transport can only be carried out by licensed carriers. The intention of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction is for all transport market participants to have equal rights and obligations, and none of the groups operating on this market is privileged e.g. by not paying taxes or doing business without registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will also be asked by Mr Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u77	In addition, I would like to ask whether, after the regulation of the law on the possibility of carrying out the described activity, it will be necessary to keep special, additional records of employees, passengers and whether a special catalogue of behaviour, offences will be created which will result in such a licence being lost or suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u78	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, our aim is for the market to be regulated so that it works according to clear rules. As far as the register of orders is concerned, yes, it will be mandatory to keep such a register for 5 years. It is about checking, the possibility of verifying whether a given order has actually been executed, whether it has been executed correctly. This is about the possibility of realising whether the complaint is genuinely appropriate and justified, all the more so because we also want to impose penalties on those entities that already carry customers directly as part of this amendment. In the case of unfair exchange rate settlement, i.e. overpayments, there will also be penalties here, I think, severe enough to discourage such a practice. On the other hand, as regards the possibility of commissioning, controlling licensed carriers and possible sanctions against those carriers who either act against or break the licence, yes, of course... Including the fact that the most severe penalty in the case of a non-licensed operation will actually be the blocking of the IT platform that is used to communicate between the client and the intermediary. I think that these regulations, which are being prepared, will soon be in the High House and then we will be able to answer the questions in very detail, consider all the details of this proposed project. But I think that this information, what is fundamental in this change, is that all the players in this market have equal rights to ensure greater security, also for passengers, the possibility of identifying courses, the possibility of making real complaints, but also, on the other hand, to make it easier for everyone who wants to operate on these very principles in this market, so that they have more opportunities. The idea is that this market should be more open, but also clearly regulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u80	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Lidia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak, Anna Milczanowska and Krystyna Wróblewska will ask a question about the harmonisation of the waiting time system for health benefits. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Gryza. The first question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Spa treatment is an activity aimed at improving health quality as well as disease prevention. These sites are characterized in addition to equipment with specialized equipment specific to the therapeutic climate, as well as natural medicinal materials whose presence has a beneficial effect on the effectiveness of treatment and prevention. Any insured person whose medical condition requires such treatment may travel to the sanatorium as part of the referral of the National Health Fund. Turnus in the sanatorium usually lasts three weeks, it can not be shorter, because such a time is needed for the treatments used in sanatoriums to produce the desired effect, which will last for a longer period of time. It is recommended to use this form of spa treatment no more than once every 18 months. In order to receive such a benefit, you must have a doctor's appointment and wait in the queue for a sanatorium treatment. The waiting time in individual voivodships varies: 1 year, 2 years, and even happens that up to 3 years. My question is: What is dictated by such a different waiting time for patients to go to the sanatorium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u82	Thank you very much. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Seym! It could be said that the Member has already characterised the system and has described issues related to referrals to spa medicine. It may also be worth adding some information in this regard, and then I will answer the question. The rules for directing patients to spa treatments are laid down in the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 7 July 2011. On the basis of this regulation, the health insurance doctor makes a referral to spa treatment or rehabilitation, taking into account indications, contraindications to spa treatment, which are also defined under the Act on spa medicine. Upon receipt of a referral from a department of the National Health Fund, the relevant cell in the field of health care shall register it, and then after that registration a specialist, a doctor in the field of balneology and physical medicine or medical rehabilitation, shall approve the referral in terms of the purpose of health treatment or health rehabilitation. Then, in accordance with the regulation I referred to, the voivodship department of the National Health Fund confirms the referral if a specialist doctor has approved the purpose of referral and in appropriate health care or health care facilities are available in contracts with these establishments. So someone who receives a referral has the option to leave not only when the purpose of the treatment has been confirmed, but also when there are available seats in these facilities. Now I will answer directly the question of why there are different queues, as you have noticed, depending on the branch. There are three main reasons for these different waiting times and different de facto queue lengths. Firstly, in each voivodship department there are various funds dedicated to spa medicine. Secondly, there are different numbers of places contracted by each branch. And another, there's a different demand in the different departments, so there's a different number of patients in this department who have submitted referral to health care and are waiting for its implementation. The longest waiting times relate to health care services for adults. The number of patients will be targeted at spa treatments depends on the number of places in spa areas that have been contracted by individual branches in a given calendar year, as well as, that is an important element, on the number of people who have resigned from spa treatment, which is related to a given period, as well as to the place of spa treatment. Such a process is very common because patients do not receive treatment at a given time or place. In accordance with the regulation of the Minister of Health of 7 July 2011 on referral to spa medicine, referrals to spa treatment are confirmed according to the order of waiting patients taking into account the scope of benefits and the medical direction, as well as the fact that in the case of adults, the recommended frequency of use of spa treatment is not more than once every 18 months, and this has already been indicated by the Member in her question. So these are the elements that make the time for access to health care services different. In 2015, the financing of health care benefits amounted to about PLN 612 million on the scale of the National Health Fund as a whole, and in the 2017 plan the amount of PLN 659 million was allocated to this range of health care benefits, which means an increase of about 7.6% over 2 years. However, due to the high interest in spa treatment and limited means of queue waiting for spa treatment, it is constantly increasing. The reason for the growing queue is the growing interest in this form of treatment. It should also be noted that for patients who would like to benefit from health care at a convenient time and place, there is also a medical outpatient treatment, which also takes place on the basis of a referral to health care, and the patient himself sets a time limit for treatment with the provider of benefits under a contract with the National Health Fund. This form is less used and offers the opportunity and opportunity to benefit from health care.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u84	Thank you. Additional question, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much, Minister, for answering my colleague's question. You said there were different numbers of health care contracts in the different departments of the National Health Fund. I would like to ask what this different number of contracts results from. And one more important thing. Well, patients who wait a long time for sanatorium treatment in spa resorts also report situations, in their opinion, abuse of this form of benefits by people who regularly go to the sanatorium and often to the same spa towns. What factors can such situations be dictated by? The Ministry of Health conducts monitoring in the field of sanatorium treatment. Are there, or will there be, actions to harmonise the system of waiting time for health benefits in individual branches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u86	Thank you. Minister, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! In general, the Ministry carries out analytical work related to the queue system. The queue system is an important issue of fairness and adequacy of access to healthcare services and such work is being carried out. One of the elements is, of course, queueing in the spa system. So we can say that on a global scale such work is carried out. And this is where we want to make some adjustments. Once this work has been completed, we will present the relevant legislation. On the other hand, with regard to the observation of patients that other patients are more likely to benefit from these benefits, the question arises as to whether these observations are actually based on verifiable documents or whether this is true. It seems to me that in such a situation the patient should simply inform the relevant institutions, i.e. the branch of the National Health Fund, or ask the President or the ombudsman. And in such specific situations, we will verify it. The Fund, in accordance with legal regulations, should not direct the patient if he benefits more than every 18 months, and this has already been pointed out by the Member in her earlier statement. So we'll pay attention to that. We will conduct a query after this question, whether such situations actually occur and whether there are any lessons to be learned from this. But in specific situations, it seems appropriate that the patient who has this observation should simply send the appropriate letter to those institutions that I have mentioned, and then we will verify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u88	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Member State Andrzej Kryj and Anna Cicholska ask a question about the transfer by the Ministry of National Education of funds to finance the costs of preparation by local authorities of educational institutions in connection with the introduction of education reform. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć will answer. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u89	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! In connection with the introduction of educational reform in the state budget, funds were planned for implementation of the reform of around PLN 313 million for adaptation measures, e.g. for the equipment of the studios concerned, the purchase of benches and chairs or the modernisation of toilets - and these funds are included in the educational subsidy - and the amount of PLN 177 million allocated among others. to equip school halls, teaching aids or repair of sanitary facilities in those gymnasiums which are transformed into primary schools - and these funds were included in the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy. The total amount of these funds is close to PLN 0.5 billion, so they are significant measures. However, there are voices from some local authorities that some municipalities have not been addressed to some schools. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister: How was the process of the transfer of funds by the Ministry of National Education to finance the costs of preparation by local authorities of educational institutions in connection with the implementation of the reform and how many local governments from Świętokrzyskie voivodship have asked for support? What was the amount of funding granted? What conclusions have been negative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u90	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! As you have said, education reform has been precisely planned and prepared in every aspect, including financial. In addition to these amounts, which you have mentioned, or 313 million planned in grants, it is also worth mentioning the amount of 413 million, which was linked to the value of teachers' salaries. It is also worth mentioning that the education subsidy was covered by 6-year-olds in kindergartens - this is the amount of PLN 1.4 billion. On the other hand, the question of the reserve 0,4, its division, was jointly developed by the Ministry of National Education with the self-government party represented by the Team on. Education, Culture and Sports Committee of the Joint Government and Government. Thus, the 177 million educational subsidy reserve has developed criteria and divisions in relation to the adjustment of schools to education reform. Up to now, the Ministry of National Education has considered and submitted proposals to the Ministry of Finance for a total amount of 52 900 thousand, i.e. about 80% the amount requested. This issue of the amount requested results from the fact that the applications had to be submitted within the time limit and in accordance with the criteria adopted. In other words, with regard to the proposals submitted by the local government units, 1130 were received, 925, i.e. around 82% were considered positively. As I said, the conditions were the deadline and fulfilment of the criteria. And what did it look like on the scale of the country, that is, the issue of fitting into the school hall equipment? This is where 311 local government units came in. This included 522 schools and 643 premises for a total amount of PLN 12 461 331. The limit was 25,000. zł, i.e. this was an important criterion that had to be met. And here 65 applications submitted by JST were rejected because they did not comply with the criteria. As regards the provision of classrooms to learn in transformed junior high schools, i.e. furniture, the conclusions of 328 local government units have been met. These included 547 schools and 2048 premises for the amount of PLN 18 203 653. Here the limit was 10,000. As regards applications, 73 claims were rejected. The issue of financing the renovation of sanitary facilities. All these are the elements that have been jointly established by the government and local government. The conclusions of 286 local government units, which concerned 460 schools, were implemented. This included 1354 sanitary facilities for a total amount of PLN 22 195 280. Here the limit was 30,000 and 67 applications were rejected. As far as Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is concerned, at these points we have been talking about, i.e. refurbishing the lighthouses as regards applications, four local authorities' requests for 136 386 PLN, 66.7% were granted. the amount requested, and this concerned six classrooms in five schools. Reinforcing rooms in junior high schools, i.e. furniture, benches, chairs. The conclusions of six local authorities were considered for PLN 268 946 or 82.1%. the amount requested. This involved 30 rooms in seven schools. Co-financing of sanitary renovations: five local authorities' applications for PLN 127 010 were granted, i.e. 100% the amount requested. This involved 11 sanitary facilities in five schools. In fact, it amazes this quite low number, because looking at comparable in terms of the size of the voivodship, you can see that these conclusions were more. You can also say a little bit, take a statistical look: e.g. the municipality of Jędrzejów submitted such an application, which concerned Junior High School No 1. Number of premises - one requested amount - 22 986 PLN. Since the limit was 25 thousand, 100% was granted amounts. On the other hand, for example, the Junior High School No. 7 Kielce - one room, the amount requested - 39 811 PLN. The limit was 25,000, hence granted [[♪ The bell ♪]] The amount is 25,000. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u92	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u93	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Similar voices also appear in my Mazowieckie voivodship. I would like to know whether there are real municipalities in this voivodship that have received neither information nor support in connection with the provision of classrooms, classrooms, the purchase of teaching aids or sanitary repairs in connection with the conversion of schools in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopeć corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Member! As far as information is concerned, it is presented on the website of the Minister of National Education. The issue of the allocation of the reserve of 0.4% was agreed with local government corporations, i.e. local governments were informed and knew that they could submit such requests. As far as the Mazowieckie voivodship is concerned, in the case of these three issues that we were talking about, i.e. the first one, the replacement of the cemeteries, 44 local authorities applied, and this concerned 112 cemeteries in 87 schools. This percentage of the allocated amount is 77,5%. As regards the provision of study rooms, there were conclusions from 46 local authorities. As regards the percentage of the amount requested, 75.5% was allocated the amount requested and this concerned 382 study rooms in 97 schools. Co-financing of current renovations, sanitary facilities: these are proposals of 43 local governments for the amount of over PLN 4 million. A total of 85.3% was awarded the amount requested and this concerned 244 sanitary facilities in 78 schools. Of course, there were conditions that had to be met, or criteria that had to be met, other than those I was talking about. This required a change of middle school. In other words, where the local government did not adopt a resolution concerning the transformation of junior high schools, i.e. changes came by law, as it was in the case of Łódź, the local government simply could not conclude there. In other words, he did not meet this basic condition of adapting the transformed middle school. In the case of the creation of Class I, the aim was to renovate the sanitary facilities or to create a fireplace there, as early school education, i.e. the I-III class, would be conducted there. Such conditions have been agreed with the local government. However, of course, these are not the only measures that involve assisting local governments in terms of the state budget. This is the case with the Active Table. The programme will cover 224 million from the state budget over the period [[♪ The bell ♪]] 3 years, this will apply to primary schools. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mrs Izabela Mrzygłock, Mrs Urszula Augustyn and Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz. Please, Mrs Isabella Mrzygłock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u97	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Recently, there has been information in public space that the government is preparing a specific attack on the funds collected under the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. In 2018, you plan to finance benefits and benefits from this fund, although so far under the Act they have been financed by the Labour Fund. I would like to stress that the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is a special-purpose fund designed to protect employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of their employer. The government's idea raises serious legal doubts. According to the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer, the main tasks of the Fund are to pay the benefits payable to employees from the insolvent employer and to seek reimbursement of the benefits paid from the entities and persons liable to do so. I therefore ask for a reply and an indication of the legal basis for the financing of benefits and pre-retirement benefits from the Fund for Guaranteed Occupational Benefits. I'm talking about financing benefits other than salaries that weren't paid by a bankrupt company. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund has not received additional resources for this task and must spend its own funds. How will the proposed change in funding affect the situation of the Fund? The cost of this idea is over PLN 2 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I can start by giving some figures and statistics on the status of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, including for 2015, 2016 and partly 2017 as well as plans for 2018. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund implements the provisions of three laws: the Law on special solutions related to job protection, the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of employers and the Act on the functioning of hard coal mining. If we looked at the state of execution of the fund, the status of the guaranteed benefit fund at the level of 2016, so as not to go any further, at the beginning of 2016 the state of the fund looked so that there was PLN 4.5 billion in the account. Last year it was a little less, which means the state of the fund is improving from year to year. If we look at the budgetary issue, the state of the fund at the beginning of 2018, as we anticipate, will be approaching to the level of PLN 5 billion, PLN 4896 million. These are cash, claims of almost PLN 1 billion, liabilities. The revenue of the fund in 2018 is estimated at 586 million. These are contributions from employers, and I'll remind you that the premium is 0.1%. the basis of dimension, bank interest. Now it's like the other part, the costs of the fund's tasks. We have planned costs at the level of PLN 2308 million, of which more or the largest amount, more than 2 billion, that is exactly what you are asking about, i.e. costs related to the payment of benefits and pre-retirement benefits. The own costs and costs associated with transfers for the implementation of these laws are already the remainder. After all these operations, the fund's status at the end of 2018 will be over PLN 3 billion, which means there is no risk in the operation of the fund, because it is very good. Therefore, our decision to amend the financing rules annually in relation to issues relating to the Labour Fund, i.e. pre-retirement benefits, to transfer this from the Labour Fund to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. As far as issues relating to the legal basis are concerned, the inter-ministerial consultation is currently a draft around budget law, in which there is an appropriate provision for the transfer of these funds, but also an additional provision to entrust these tasks to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, i.e. all these rules will be maintained. Of course, we also take into account the situation that I was talking about, that the fund's situation is good. It is possible to discuss whether the Labour Fund or the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is better or worse. These are solutions that we have been implementing for many years, many times on this subject we have discussed whether it would be better for benefits and pre-retirement benefits to be implemented directly from the state budget. But we have the state we have. These funds have been paid from the Labour Fund for many years. It seems that a better place is the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund than the Labour Fund, because we want labour fund funds to be spent on active forms of combating unemployment, including in such a way as completing the programme for young people under the age of 30, as well as co-financing projects that are carried out under the European Social Fund. These are the targets. Here we have the funds provided, there is no threat to the functioning of this. And it is also worth recalling that not long ago we have amended the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the employer's insolvency, which will somehow facilitate the use of this law, among others. We extended the reference periods between the termination of the employment relationship and the date of insolvency from 9 to 12 months, extended the catalogue of payments for unmet employee benefits to the equivalent of unused leave, made it possible to pay advances on benefits when the activity ceased. There are still some changes that we have implemented that have entered into force, which are somehow intended to facilitate the use of the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims. If we look at absolute values, the number of people who benefit from this law is definitely decreasing due to the good situation on the labour market. These are connected vessels. And as I said at the beginning, there is at the moment no threat to the functioning of either the Labour Fund or the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, hence in the Around Budget Act it is a transfer, as well as an appropriate provision allowing the use of these funds from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Augustyn now asks an additional question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u102	... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u103	Minister, I'm not a specialist in the labour market, but as I'm listening to you, I have this idea, I think you've had such a buffer so far, such an iron reserve, because that's what happened, this Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is such an iron reserve. Today you manipulate at retirement age, you lower him, and suddenly you need money, so with an easy hand, even though for a few minutes you've justified that the situation in this fund is very good, you're gonna pull that money out. Well, first of all, how many years will it take to fund the payments of benefits and pensions? That's the first question. Second question: And what happens if through these countries manipulations and by unforeseen yet, because everything in the labour market cannot be predicted, the situation - the country is spoiling the market, e.g. by lowering the retirement age - because of the new burdens this fund will go bankrupt? Today, employers pay for this fund. We have high labour costs. Then perhaps it would be easier to reduce labour costs, reduce the contribution or fire employers to allow them [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the longer employment of employees, and not to take a contribution from them, and then hand it over with a light hand, not for the purpose for which the fund was created?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to what you say, a reduction in the retirement age improves the situation with regard to benefits from pre-retirement benefits, as some people will no longer benefit from such benefits, they will be transferred to pension benefits paid from the Social Insurance Institution. So the situation in this area - to the extent we are talking about - will definitely improve. That's why the situation will be better. There is a one-time solution for 2018... [[And there's gonna be more payouts in the ZUS.]] We're talking about our fund, this fund I was talking about, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. And in this fund of funds for 2018, 2019, 2020 - I am calm about it - there will never be a shortage, because there is a lot of money at the moment. As I said, at the moment it is practically possible to talk about the amount of PLN 5 billion and even after these funds are transferred, they remain in the account of more than PLN 3 billion. So that the situation in the fund is stable, there is no danger. And what you're talking about is that if you get your age down, it still works for the benefit of this fund. So that the situation is good... [[Unless you do.]] ...is under control. Don't worry, there's no danger to the operation of the fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the Polish Investment Zone will be considered as a concept of income tax exemptions for new investments, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Zubowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u107	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the previous meeting of the Sejm, we had the opportunity to discuss the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. It was then discussed as of 31 December 2016. This debate took place both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and in the plenary room. Interestingly, on the one hand, data on the development of economic zones in Poland were quoted, positive data, but on the other, there was also information about the need to change the formula of their operation, all the more so because the zones as such were supposed to function from the beginning of their existence within a certain period of time, which has already been extended, and often. We have noted, for example, the development rate, which was almost 60%, and the signs of problems with increasing it, but also the financial results of the zones in 2016, and none of them were negative. Minister, given the record low unemployment rate, while trying to move away from the employment model in Poland, in which the participation of workers with not the highest qualifications is high, it is appropriate to ask ourselves whether the model of the functioning of the zones should also be changed, and if so, what model of their functioning in the coming years is seen by the Ministry of Development. The statements of government representatives or ministries appearing in the media, which come down to the motto: Poland with one big zone, cause that parliamentarians are often asked by entrepreneurs: When will we know the detailed assumptions of the change? Wouldn't it just be a cosmetics that, because of the cost to the budget or the threat of budget loss of revenue, wouldn't change too much in the functioning of the zones? Should there be a level playing field for investment facilities across the country, will local authorities always be interested in taking action to create new jobs? In the event of changes, how can the Ministry see the continued functioning of the already operating zones? How will the changes made change, if such plans are made, the situation of people employed now or in the future in special economic zones? In short, I hope that the questions that my colleagues and I are about to ask will be answered in the next few dozen minutes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u108	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u109	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! High Izbo! Special economic zones were created more than 20 years ago. During this time they were not adapted to the needs and economic challenges of Poland. As rightly indicated in the Responsible Development Strategy, the most important task in the area of investment policy is to stimulate high-quality investment that will benefit economic development and ensure stable, highly paid jobs. That's the rule: first of all, an investor, but an even more important employee. The new concept will provide for the possibility of receiving an income tax exemption for new investments. Unlike the existing system, the entrepreneur will be able to seek relief in any area where business can be carried out. A long-term process of changes in the borders of special economic zones will thus be abolished. However, we are not introducing additional bureaucracy. The number of zones and companies managing them will not increase. The companies will support investors in assigned areas and carry out additional tasks related to the responsibility for the investment attractiveness of the assigned area. We will eliminate a situation in which some municipalities, or even districts, were not covered by the zones, and other counties had several zones operating in their territory. After this change, Poland will become more accessible to investors and the decision to grant the tax credit will be issued efficiently and quickly, up to a maximum of one month. Another novelty will be that the investment will be assessed in two areas. Firstly, we will assess it through the level of investment. The investment threshold will be different depending on the size of the company and the level of development of the region. Secondly, we will check whether the investment meets the so-called. quality criteria, which are largely linked to the economic situation of Poland, and take into account the priorities of Poland's economic policy. One of the most important benefits of the new law is to ensure stable conditions for professional development for workers. We rely on the quality of jobs. We will support workers, expecting entrepreneurs to be more involved in improving working and development conditions for current and potential employees. We will implement this, among others. by providing additional benefits to employees and supporting the acquisition of education and qualifications. We will also expect investment to involve a stable employment of staff with specialist education and a wage above the local average wage level in the industry. In response to the needs of our country, we intend to attract high-quality investments that will stimulate local and national development. These investments, which guarantee, among others, will be supported. transfer of know-how, carrying out activities: research and development and development of clusters. We want the products and services produced to be competitive on a regional and global scale. Such investments translate into real economic growth in our country. They are also potential partners for Polish micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will be able to become co-operatives and suppliers. Sustainable development is also extremely important. Thanks to the changes introduced, we assume that the inflow of investment will be more even on the national scale. This will be served by differentiated criteria, depending on the level of development of the voivodship and unemployment in the district. The higher the unemployment rate in the county compared to the average unemployment in the country, the lower the investment requirements. We also support small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in less developed regions. By opening up the possibility of obtaining support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, we assume a greater inflow of investment in less developed areas, which at this stage of development are unable to meet the excessive demands of large investors, such as. infrastructure or the availability of human resources. Investment in medium-sized cities, combining economic and social functions dedicated to a separate government project, will be particularly rewarded. In addition, other medium-sized cities, small towns, urban-rural municipalities and rural communities will also receive preferences. We estimate that as a result of these changes Poland will improve its competitiveness in relation to other countries of the region, because often their offer was better mainly in the area where investments could be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u110	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. 42 ladies and gentlemen have come forward. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. Time, of course - 1 minute, because there are a lot of calls. [[Mr. Marshal, two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The project of the Polish Investment Zone as a concept of income tax exemptions for new investments is undoubtedly a good solution, especially for the development of weaker areas in Poland, currently burdened with a high unemployment rate. The project, according to which the whole Poland is to be an investment zone, will certainly extend the offer to investors who themselves will indicate a place where according to their own criteria they recognize the desire to invest. This offers a huge opportunity for economic development so-called. District Poland, which has so far lost competition and competition with much bigger and stronger centres. In order to achieve the expected effect, for Poland as a whole to be an investment zone, criteria and preferences to encourage potential investors should be targeted particularly towards weaker and smaller centres. Therefore, I have questions: Will the location of the investment planned by the investor taking into account the unemployment rate in the area be preferred in the tax relief scheme? Are local governments... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u112	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u113	...in areas with high unemployment rates will also be able to benefit from certain preferences and subsidies...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u114	You've run out of time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u115	I'm afraid so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, more than 40 Members have come forward. If we apply 2 minutes, only half will speak. [[Then he'll take half.]] Half will only speak. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, but I would like to say hello to the young people of the School Team in the Lord's Smiths. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When Prime Minister Morawiecki announced a change in the form of the creation of the Polish Investment Zone in Krynica, I wonder why he did it. Is it so that after this change all good things are taken into your account and in a few months' time to say that these are the successes of Minister Morawiecki? There were two goals to create zones. First of all, jobs. 332,000 arrived. jobs. The second objective was an investment objective. 112 billion PLN was invested. They also invested in 21,000 areas. Ha, there are 14 zones now. A lot of money was invested, the government invested in infrastructure, in roads, in the whole business environment. Now the investor will choose a place not necessarily in this area. Isn't there a concern that local governments will have to pay back money because EU projects often have indicators? Don't you think they won't be kept? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These indicators and you will have to pay back money for these investments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Special economic zones were created, among others. for the purpose of leveling the playing field for certain areas. I would like to remind you that they were created in places such as Suwałszczyzna, where they actually had their purpose, they were created in places like the Tarnobrzeg zone where we were dealing with the restructuring of the mining industry, and they also helped solve this problem. But it wasn't just a question of unemployment, because you put the emphasis on this issue first and foremost in your speech. In my opinion, there is a concern that after the whole of Poland becomes one big zone, we will not be able to have such instruments in order to actually pull up economically, in colloquially speaking, those areas that are underdeveloped economically, and we will have great discretion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You said there would be criteria, but the officials would decide where the activity would be located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, I'm disappointed with what I heard because it was so high in general. Of course, the passwords are very high, ideal, everyone would like to hear it, everyone would like it to be done this way. But there's no specifics in there. However, we have at least outlined such a situation that there will be two categories: the current economic zones and the emerging second economic zone covering the whole of Poland. The question is what's gonna happen to the competition. Who will be preferred? Are the economic zones so far or those created under new conditions? Massive expenditures have been incurred e.g. In Przemyśl, it's about infrastructure. There hasn't been an entrepreneur in years. In this way, we will not create the conditions to attract entrepreneurs to those zones where huge expenditure has already been made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So does that make sense, and what's the logic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u122	Thank you very much. There was a dispute about whether two minutes or one minute. As the Members present in the Chamber seem, it seems, however, to be 2 minutes, i.e. we will radically reduce the number of people present, please let it be 2 minutes. Those who have already been lost, and those who will be gain. [[And I've already lost it. I can do it again.]] Mr. Marshal, you were a marshal, but the title of Marshal stays for life, he gets his request. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak. Time - 2 minutes, sir. The rest of the list can be checked out slowly because they won't be able to speak. Thank you. [[And the beginning of the list?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Due to the concept of the Ministry of Development regarding the extension of investment zones to the whole of Poland, I wanted to ask about preferences for smaller cities and towns, about the details related to these preferences for smaller cities and towns and whether they will be treated in a preferential way. I would also like to ask about the fiscal exemptions available for newly created investments. Minister, I am also asking about the announced rule of the length of the exemption time depending on the amount and intensity of public aid in the given voivodship. How will this mechanism work in practice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u124	Well, look at that. We fit in a minute. Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All of Poland is one big investment zone. Propaganda-bearing password, revelation, just completely dispersing with reality. The Minister was gracious to note that so far there has been no adjustment to economic needs and challenges in the zones. And what is the most important economic challenge in terms of investment today? If the Minister didn't want to say it, ask the entrepreneurs, economists, experts. This is a fatal institutional and legal environment, which reduces the tendency to invest, reduces the tendency to develop. And what's the point of having a big zone if entrepreneurs don't invest because they're afraid of you. They're afraid of your legislation and your policies. They are still afraid, although in 2017 there is a higher GDP and a better theoretical economic situation. They argue that economic policy will most likely reduce the willingness to invest in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, in parallel with today's announcement of time. 18 is a subcommittee meeting that will work on reducing trade on Sunday. There will be more costs, less turnover, and thousands of people will have to lose their jobs. What kind of project is that? This is a political project. He is neither economic nor labour law, sir. He doesn't do anything, completely ruins and limits the freedom of business. What was the surprise at the last Council of Ministers meeting? This is about the project, and this came out of your department to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. Very well, everyone praises it, only the indicators that you have put there, ladies and gentlemen, are so subjective that the head of the National Tax Administration will be able to block accounts according to his will, according to his own assessment for 72 hours, or maybe for 3 months, if he so decides. Ladies and gentlemen, fix the legislation, don't scare the entrepreneurs and improve the climate to invest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only then can you realize your dreams of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u127	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Many voices have been cast here today on the subject of district Poland, smaller towns. For God's sake, stop dividing Poland into county Poland, Poland of big cities, Poland of A and Poland of B. Poland is one for you to remember. There is no Poland worse and better, there is one Poland. Stop dividing Poland, stop dividing Poles and Poles. Unfortunately, the proposal is also aimed at small entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs. They don't get any support, as is the case with those who can invest, make new big investments. Also take care of the smallest ones who wake up every morning, pay ZUS and really push for Poland to produce more and more GDP. And now what's most important. Here's my question. The Prime Minister and Minister for Development Mr Morawiecki spoke about Poland being a great assembly plant. I'd like to ask you what you've done over the last two years. Has Poland already become another place to invest, or is it still a great assembly plant for Europe? That's my question to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u128	Now you ask Dariusz Starzycki, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I had a great pleasure to participate in the last Economic Forum in Krynica in the presentation by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki of new solutions under the motto: the whole Poland special economic zone. I have seen the great interest these proposals have had among the participants of the forum. Also after returning to my city, entrepreneurs came to my office asking about the details of these solutions. I am all the more pleased that we can discuss this today. It is also very good information for Polish local authorities. Many local governments in Poland have prepared their investment areas in recent years and have had difficulty finding buyers of these areas, because businesses, of course, chose those which were in special economic zones. Today, following the introduction of new rules, these operating conditions will be the same for all. Self-governments are gaining completely new opportunities for development. Minister, as this is a good and expected change, I have a question of when it is planned to implement these new solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u130	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Now, marshal?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u131	Dear Marshal, Minister! As has already been said, special economic zones were created 20 years ago primarily to eliminate unemployment. At that time, unemployment was 40%. , currently in Poland unemployment is 7% and in many municipalities between 1% and 2%. You're looking for hands to work. Therefore, this is not the main reason why Poland is covered by one investment zone. Everyone is therefore wondering what the objective of this initiative is. It is likely that the exchange of human resources, probably also a reduction in the role of municipalities' and residents' councils in terms of what is happening in their surroundings, probably also tempting the possibility of zone managers selling land, because they have the right to do so. This is a very dangerous move, because the lack of full control of the management of voivodships, municipalities councils, local communities over the areas of municipalities and powiats can bring to Poland all these polluting and poisonous investments that other richer countries do not want. This can result in us becoming a dumpster of Europe, not just an assembly plant. While Western European countries will increasingly care for their environment, we, in short-sighted terms, may want to adopt poisonous, noise-making industries in our territory, while exempting foreign companies from tax, adding public aid, and paying for the construction of infrastructure. Such an example is the construction of the Lufthansa factory under Wednesday in Silesia, where aircraft engines for Boeing will be tested. Anyone with a little imagination, and all the more knowledge, knows that an investment that is supposed to consume 32 t of aviation fuel a day will poison soil, air, and the resulting noise and low vibrations will cause degradation of human health, as well as construction facilities. Is this the kind of investment that the Prime Minister wants to bring into the country by exempting them from taxes? Will Polish companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have special preferences? What do you want to do for Polish entrepreneurs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u132	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień. The Member doesn't have one. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The inclusion of the entire area of our country in the economic zone also means paying attention to the smaller, poorer regions that have been neglected over the past years. In the current special economic zones, most entities that operate abroad. I would like to ask how the government plans to encourage companies to locate their plants in the regions on the so-called. East wall. Rail infrastructure, road infrastructure in many places is already beginning to be at a very decent, good level. However, companies, plants still place their locations, their productions in central and western Poland. I would still like to ask if, under the new law, our family companies will be able to count on other additional support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u134	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about the project Polish Investment Zone, only that nobody has actually seen this project, we do not even have its assumptions, and a few slides, it has already become a tradition, hangs on the website. I understand that this is to some extent a response to what is happening in private sector investments in Poland, which have slowed down in 2016 to the lowest level since 1989. And theoretically, we have a slight reflection, but let us remember the effect of the base and remember that we are still very far from the level of 2014 or 2015. I understand that this is the way to react, but it can't be done without changing the government's policy and its more predictable, because, in fact, private entrepreneurs, investors are afraid of it. And unfortunately, the Polish Investment Zone actually fits into this unpredictable situation, because we are talking about changing the rules of the game when it comes to investments in a completely indeterminate way, which means that those who have already decided to invest today will wonder if they will not wait. Therefore, in a shorter period we are dealing with a completely opposite effect from the expected one - people will be waiting for a solution. And then there's this little flower for the goat. You're gonna have to do something about efficiency and efficiency, because in special economic zones you're counting, you're assessing that efficiency, and you're converting it per hectare. If the whole of Poland translates into these hectares, this efficiency will fall to zero.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u136	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Elizabeth...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u137	It is my call for a long time to change the rules for monitoring and assessing efficiency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The idea of creating special economic zones was primarily to stimulate regional development, to stimulate competitiveness, to combat unemployment. Looking at your idea that the whole country is to be surrounded by special economic zones, I have the impression that you are being deprived of those instruments that have been created so far and that have actually directly affected the stimulation of the economy. I ask here the question: How does this apply to the business constitution, from which the assumptions are different, and what is different from the idea of creating one common economic zone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u140	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u141	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, I will start with the fact that I very much welcomed and appreciated the prospect of replacing the existing 14 special economic zones with a single investment area covering our whole country, each county, each municipality, regardless of its size and character. It is a solution that both investors and self-governments of all levels look forward to, and all points out that in the near future Poland will become an investment paradise and a dynamically developing country. But I would like to ask the Minister whether the reductions provided for in this scale for entrepreneurs will not adversely affect the impact on the state budget and whether there is a risk that the European Commission will treat this solution as unacceptable public aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u142	The floor will be taken... [[The question will be asked. This is a debate, Marshal.]] The question will be asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u143	Thank you, Marshal. The economic zones so far preferred foreign operators by requiring a high level of investment. Therefore, these preferences were used mainly by foreign companies, including mainly German companies, in the form of aid, in the form of tax credits up to 50%, access to finished land, property tax exemptions, etc. Small Polish companies just abroad did not benefit from these privileges, but had to struggle with strong foreign competition and at the same time often also with an unfriendly fiscist, who was doing retrievability on Polish companies, which was lower from foreign entities. In other words, in previous solutions the state strangled Polish companies with its own hands. I have a question for the Ministry: Will this situation change? Will the criteria be changed so much that they will be more friendly to Polish companies, or at least they will be treated equally with foreign entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u144	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Rafał Weber, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question whether in this idea: the entire Polish economic zone is taken into account by a solution that will allow the deforestation of areas for investment. I am talking about this on the example of the city of Stalowa Wola, which has had a problem with it for many years. The economic zone, which exists in Stalowa Wola, is filled with new entrepreneurs with the participation of the city authorities, which effectively help attract investors or develop it already in operation, including with the participation of the Industrial Development Agency. And the barrier that he is currently facing is the forest wall surrounding the economic zone. We all know how difficult it is to talk to the State Forests about this issue. This case was raised by the local authorities of Stalowa Wola for 10 years. The previous government pretended to be interested in this matter and that it really wanted to help with the deforestation of these areas, while de facto he did nothing about it. Investors who deal with this problem are doing it around, while the easiest solution would be to introduce a special law, a special arrangement which in such places, which can serve practically and exclusively to create new jobs there, to build workplaces, should function. Is this good, very good, even the idea of a special act that will help to deforest land for investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u146	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that we are being heard by a delegation of the Finnish-Polish parliamentary group from the Finnish Parliament, with the president of the group, Mr Olavi Ala-Nissilä, headed by the Finnish-Polish Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] We welcome our guests very warmly. And now you will be speaking with Jarosław Urbaniak, the Law Club... The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, the Civic Platform all the time. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unlike many in this room, when I heard what the Prime Minister said in Krynica, I was terrified. Once again, propaganda, once again just slides and no details. And to be honest, Minister, I didn't hear any specifics in your speech either, and there were generals either. It's been two years, but at some point somebody misread this speech because there was a phrase: in this bill. So I understand there's a bill in the ministry. Then we'd like to see him as soon as possible to talk about specifics. Anyway, a special economic zone, of course. Law and Justice and the government say, it's relief, something for investors. But after all, these reliefs are followed by some commitments from investors. You're not talking about that. What will be on the side of the liabilities of a potential investor? It's very important, isn't it? You do not answer the basic problems that are currently in the Polish economy. You've got two years to stop. You are talking about unemployment at a time when the main problem for Polish investors is not unemployment, but lack of hands to work. In my district in the south of Wielkopolska, in the Kępin district practically, every second employee in the economic sphere is a foreigner, these are Ukrainians. Every other one is a foreigner. Moreover, after opening the borders of the European Union for Ukrainians, they go even further to earn even better money. You don't answer these questions at all. Speaking of the European Union and how the zones work. What about reliefs? You proposed a budget yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a 42-billion-dollar deficit at a time when the countries of the European Union, using the world economy, have a planned surplus. Even Greece has a planned budget surplus. And what about the notification? You have such vague statements about the notification of these solutions, that, Minister, I will ask for a written reply, as to the notification of the solutions proposed by the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u148	Now Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am not surprised that Members of the Civic Platform are terrifying the ideas of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because the development of our country is your failure. [[Yes?]] [[Don't say that.]] [[Aren't you ashamed to lie like that?]] Special economic zones have been operating in Poland for 20 years. They were created to stimulate investment and eliminate high structural unemployment, which at the time reached up to 40% in some regions of the country. Currently there are 14 special economic zones in Poland and they are an important part of the relationship with the investor. During the functioning of these zones, the economic situation of Poland has changed considerably, and thus economic needs and challenges have changed. Will the proposed change in the creation of the Polish Investment Zone, operating across the country, available for investments fulfilling quantitative criteria and - what is very important - qualitative, consistent with the Responsible Development Strategy, improve Poland's economic development by stimulating high-quality investments and will we stop being mainly the assembly plant of global companies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrotka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u151	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will ask two questions about the project that the Minister presented, in the context of its importance for the Responsible Development Plan. Firstly, Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister of Morawiecki, pointed to too much dependence of the Polish economy on foreign capital. In that case, Minister, how do you think this project will affect the absorption of foreign capital in Poland? For I will remind you that at a time when the Law and Justice took over governments, the international net investment position of Poland, i.e. the difference between Polish investments made abroad and foreign investments made in Poland, was negative and amounted to minus PLN 1123 billion. After five quarters of your government, this investment position, or dependence on foreign capital, did not decrease or even increase because it deteriorated by PLN 50 billion. I do not think that foreign capital is a bad thing, because it creates new jobs, new technologies are coming to Poland, etc. How does the Minister feel, then, that this assumption in the strategy will be achieved, or the opposite? Secondly, the Responsible Development Strategy also points out that all regions should develop evenly, but the investment decisions are influenced by various factors which demonstrate the investment attractiveness of the regions concerned: the size and cost of labour, secondly, the level of economic infrastructure and thirdly, transport attractiveness and transport accessibility. In that case, Minister, please tell us what factors will be decisive in terms of these reliefs, because if it turns out that the benefits of tax reduction will be less important than e.g. that the investment will be carried out in a place that is characterised by good [[♪ The bell ♪]] transport availability...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u153	...it raises the question of whether this fact will not be denied. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u154	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The whole of Poland is an economic zone. That's a very good idea, ladies and gentlemen. [[No specifics.]] As my previous speakers said, we have Polish economic zones, special economic zones for 20 years. [[25.]] Over 20 years. These investments, these institutions have worked. Today we can evaluate them. They have acted correctly, stimulated the economy, addressed the issue of the social factor in a significant way. Today, one very important question is raised. In special economic zones, as we know, there are a lot of areas left. Some economic zones have recently expanded their areas, which are still to be developed. Does the government have a plan to develop this and implement further zones? One further question arises, ladies and gentlemen, because, as we know, local government officials today have prepared a lot of investment areas for small investments, much smaller investments that are needed in these places. But I also have one additional question as to whether the economic operators that are already in operation will be able to benefit from this privilege on their own as those who have the right to relief within a special economic zone. Does the government also have plans for so-called. Investment concessions for companies that operate, operate and operate on our market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u156	Thank you. The question is asked by Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Special economic zones are a good combination of investors' needs and the needs of individual regions. This brings tangible results for entrepreneurs and regions. What, then, is the purpose of the planned changes? Is the new approach to tax exemptions, very highly centralised according to qualitative and quantitative criteria, decisions concentrated in one place, or manual control, or will all this not extend the decision-making process? Special economic zones in Poland have been in operation since the 1990s. During these years it was impossible to underestimate the zones when it comes to attracting foreign investors to Poland, showing the economic attractiveness of the regions. Perhaps this instrument should be remodeled, not subject to revolutionary changes. I do not believe that after this change Poland will be one big centre of advanced services and production. Entrepreneurs are limited to the implementation of innovative projects, because with constantly changing they are almost afraid to invest. What does the government propose to businesses to make this investment safe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Club Law and Justice. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Dariusz Kubiak... I'm sorry. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the economic zones, which have been operating since the 1990s, have certainly met their expectations and fulfil the tasks they have been tasked with, because they were the first ones to prevent unemployment, high unemployment, and to respond to the needs of the labour market during this period. This was the case and they also attracted investors from abroad. Now a special economic zone is to become an area of the whole of Poland. We know that the term of the economic zones is 2026, or less than 10 years. We're doing a revolution again for these 10 years. And I would like, Minister, to know how you feel about how to exploit this potential in terms of space, the areas of economic zones that are functioning today. I come from the area of the SuwaI economic zone, I know how it was needed at that time, and I know that large spaces, including large areas, which are managed by states, have been managed by the Law and Justice economic zones for 2 years, have not been used. What about this area? What happens if investors don't want to come, for example. to Suwałk to invest, to Łomża, to Białystok, because they will be able to choose a more attractive area with better infrastructure, e.g. in the vicinity of Warsaw, in the vicinity of Wrocław, in the vicinity of Gdańsk? You're gonna block the development of areas that really need it. What conditions do you give to Polish entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises who could function in these zones? Unfortunately, it is very bad that for today, except for a few slides, we do not know what [[♪ The bell ♪]] The conditions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u161	...they'll have entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u162	The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u163	...in this dimension of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u164	... Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm from Belchatov. We also have investment areas in the Łódź economic zone. I would like to ask: What facilitations will these new solutions put in place for small and medium-sized enterprises? It's one thing. And the second - a few days ago I participated in the economic forum which took place in Kleszczów, that is the richest municipality in Poland. There, in turn, we have various investors, the whole cross-section of Western Europe, they are significant investors. We are now focusing on attracting large investors, i.e. Those who could start the assembly of electric cars. It seems to me that these new solutions, I would ask here for an answer or support to this very thought, will make it easier for investors to acquire new areas for investment, for example, because they will not have to expand these zones, they will by definition simply be to be developed by a new investor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u166	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the project announced by the government to liquidate special economic zones and embrace Poland as a whole with a single investment area, modelled on special economic zones, is just another marketing and policy procedure, following the Responsible Development Plan, not an attempt to solve the fundamental problems of the Polish economy, because in practice even today it is possible to cover a special economic zone of any land chosen by an investor throughout the country after meeting certain formal conditions, although not all investors want it, because it is always an additional bureaucracy. We Members, who have actively participated in the creation of new sub-zones of special economic zones in the past, know this mechanism well, we know how it is done, but also the government knows it very well, because by seeking serious foreign investors, who are known to want to invest in our part of Europe, they are also encouraged by investment grants. So this idea of government is not a revolution. The current power, with no idea how quickly and dynamically reform Poland and face real problems, such as a decrease in the number of people of working age or a weak position... [[Eight years.]] ...small and medium-sized enterprises, we have a society, but also some economists with such ideas. It looks good from the looks of it. In order to sustain GDP growth in the longer term due to the consumption boost caused by the large social transfer that this authority has carried out, in fulfilling its electoral promises, it is necessary to add an investment factor for GDP growth - in line with the economic theory. So the whole country is a big investment zone with facilitations and incentives. However, for investors in today's Europe are not the most important incentives, but the labour market, economic freedom, stability and legal certainty and the sustainability of public finances in the long term. And what does the current authority really do by fulfilling their electoral promises? By reducing the retirement age, in addition to demography, it reduces the number of people of working age and introduces uncertainty about the future stabilisation of public finances related to the Social Security Office; by centralising the state, it limits economic freedoms; by carrying out a legal revolution, it introduces a sense of legal uncertainty. Is the political weakness of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs vis-à-vis some ministers, e.g. agriculture, energy and work, is not a reason to withdraw from [[♪ The bell ♪]] carrying out the declared actual economic reforms of the current government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I live in Łomża. Our Łomża subzone of the Suwałki Special Economic Zone is small, it's basically 7.5 ha. At the moment we can already say that we do not have land to invest, but there are entrepreneurs in Łomża who have their investment areas. So I must say that I am very pleased that there is a chance that all Poland will become an economic zone. [[No specifics.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question therefore: Will the conditions for joining this new investment area be the same as before, will they differ and if they differ, how? And what sectors will be considered priority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Bozenna Bukiewicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with your plan to create a big investment zone in Poland, across the country, I have a question about the meaning of the existence and future of 14 companies that manage the existing zones. What's gonna happen to them? What role will they play, and what tasks will they carry out? What's gonna happen to this area? What will happen to science and technology parks and clusters in these areas? What about vocational training in areas where our future graduates have practices? Have you ever wondered if you're ruining something that's worked well for over 20 years? And there's uncertainty. I'm talking to entrepreneurs who ask for one thing: don't bother. And you keep interrupting entrepreneurs. Instead of helping, you're interrupting. First of all, it is about stabilization, because an entrepreneur cannot plan his business, not being sure what the future will be as far as tax law is concerned, generally about the law. You can't treat entrepreneurs the way you've treated them so far. I ask you to respect those people who can take care of themselves and create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u172	Thank you. Now you have the floor of Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that as part of the new concept: Polish Investment Zone we are finally focusing on the quality of jobs. I would like to know from the Minister how the new tools will affect working conditions. And by looking at future HR education, I have a question. To what extent will entrepreneurs, investors cooperate with newly formed professional schools and their graduates? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[To Gadowski, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Platform Club... [[Skowronsky for him.]] Member? [[For him, yes.]] And in a minute, Gadowski will come and say he wants to. [[No. He's not coming, Marshal.]] Mrs Skowrońska Krystyna, Civic Platform. Time to turn it on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u175	For 18 months, Prime Minister Morawiecki has said that Poland will be one big economic zone. It's a piece of socio-tech. I come from Mielec, where special economic zones were built, subzones were built, and recently I was at the anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the special economic zone in Tarnobrzeg. Congratulations to all those who worked at the time. But in the last forum in Krynica, Prime Minister Morawiecki stated that he was against the existence of special economic zones and would like to see Poland as a single investment area. The PiS state is asking a lot of questions. There is no concrete evidence on this issue, there is no indication of how the conclusions will be examined, who will examine these proposals and make it easier for entrepreneurs to build their investments. Why? Because in special economic zones there were whole cells for investor services. It was a great action and it's a great action. The state in recent years unfortunately except for the change in the Industrial Development Agency and the filling of certain positions in the zones, and these two sub-zones I am talking about are in the hands of the Industrial Development Agency, and they are not companies... Well, there isn't. This plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki: Poland is a special economic zone for Poland, and we know that today, until 2026 European law allows for more. I know that, and so I'd like to ask for specifics. Coffee on the bench because it's not here today. There's only a few slides and a few promises today. Entrepreneurs, those who operate in zones, don't know what the future will be, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And those who want to act don't know that either. Maybe it's better to lower everyone's taxes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u176	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Abramowicz, club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This is excellent news for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish economy. So far in zones and subzones they could invest large corporations, because after all, a small company from Konstantynów or Janów Podlaski is unable to move its investments out of the area in which it operates. Today the government is implementing this request, which was presented by the Prime Minister in her exposé: Poland for all Poles, entrepreneurship for all Poles, for small and medium-sized ones. This is a beautiful message, provided that there are two points. The right to invest - and to be relieved of course - should be calculated in relation to the company's potential rather than the number of jobs created. Then we implement this program so that all Poles can participate in the investment. And a second condition. One Member here consciously pointed out that this must be implemented quickly, because at the moment entrepreneurs are getting information: it will be a good bill, so some will certainly hold back with investment decisions. So we need to introduce this law, these rules very, very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! Until today, special economic zones have given relief to one, and these reliefs must have consisted of entrepreneurs from other areas, as I said, most often small and medium, because they paid taxes - and large corporations, big international institutions, were exempt from taxes. Of course, they created jobs, but also at the expense of small and medium-sized ones. Today we have excellent news for you: all Poles will be able to invest with relief, because it was the government that announced and implemented Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Poland for ordinary Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u178	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Are you familiar with the results of research carried out by entities, management companies in special economic zones, concerning new criteria, the rules of operation of investors in these zones, prepared by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? From these studies it is clear and clear that 50% present actors, let us add: very well and effectively operating in these economic zones, would not find its place in them, because it would not meet the new criteria, the criteria of Minister Morawiecki. So what conclusions and reflections come from these studies for the Ministry? Do you know them at all, and have you analyzed them? What will you respond to these allegations to concerned investors? We believe that the new criteria are too high and inadequate for assumptions and reality. These are serious questions for the future of many entities operating in special economic zones, which is why I warmly ask the Minister to answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u180	Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club, will speak. This will be the last performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Opposite! I have an opportunity to summarize this discussion. I was going to say that the government isn't planning on shutting down special economic zones. In accordance with the 1994 Act and with the arrangements for the European Union, these zones can operate until 2026. The Government's proposal is an exit against the fact that these zones will cease to operate in accordance with the 1994 Act. Now, if someone wants to invest in the economic zone, they have only 9 years of tax preferences, and the solutions presented by the Ministry are going in the direction of making these preferences 10-, 15-year-old. That's a very good solution. This is an opportunity especially for small local governments, because at the moment these local authorities could not compete with the area where these preferences were. Even if they had good land, even if they had good infrastructure, armed land, unfortunately these investments were moving to economic zones. I also think that with regard to the assumptions made by the Ministry, there will be an important quality of investment and not a quantity, i.e. the funds invested in the investment in question, this is the It is also a very good signal that these investments, which will be made, which will be possible practically throughout Poland, will have as if a qualitatively better business operation, but also in terms of employees, these jobs will be qualitatively better, better paid. I just have one question and a reservation that there will be some extra bureaucracy here, and that there will be a situation where the teams who will judge the conclusions... Isn't it better to use the experts who are in the economic zones and not create some new institutions that will absorb extra money from the budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have adopted two minutes of speeches, we must close this list of Members. Indeed, you may make written submissions. They'll be treated the same way. Mr Tadeusz Kościński has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u183	Thank you very much for the very interesting questions. Currently, the most important task is to stimulate high-quality investments that will benefit economic development. We consider such investments to be those which, for example, stimulate local entrepreneurship, transfer know-how to Poland, ensure close cooperation with science centres and schools. When preparing the changes, we focused on high quality handling and simple processes, in accordance with the principle: first, the investor and even more important employee. We also care about improving investment attractiveness for other countries. We started to achieve our goals by identifying inefficient processes and rapid autonomy. The priority was to consider pending requests for the integration of investment areas into the boundaries of special economic zones. Investors in some cases waited up to 20 months for decisions. What are the principles of the law and the benefits? The tax exemption instrument is available for new investments, which according to Polish legislation and the definition of the European Commission include the creation of a new production plant and reinvestment. This applies to investments meeting the quantitative criteria, i.e. investment expenditure, and quality criteria, in accordance with the SOR assessed in areas. Sustainable development - investment in high unemployment areas, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support for medium-sized and small cities and rural areas. Structural development - specialised, highly paid jobs, stable jobs, i.e. employment contract, investment in industries according to the current development policy of the country in which Poland can gain a competitive advantage, export of products or services. Scientific development - development of sectoral clusters, cooperation with universities and research centres in the field of research, R &amp; D activities, employment alongside production workers of active workers. Development of human resources - support for workers in the acquisition of vocational education and qualifications, employee care activities, e.g. participation in additional health care programmes, cooperation with industry schools, creation of patronage classes and transfer of specialist equipment, admission of pupils to practice. The maximum investment project can receive 10 points for compliance with the Responsible Development Strategy. The standard investment must demonstrate compliance with the quality criteria of at least 60%. For investments located in areas with a public aid intensity of 35%, i.e. in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lubuskie, Łódź, Małopolskie, Opole, Pomorskie, Świętokrzyskie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships, and in the areas belonging to the Ciechanów-Płocki subregions, the Ostrołęcko-Siedlecki, Radom and Warsaw-Eastern threshold decreases from 60% to 50%. For investments located in areas with public aid intensity 50% , such as Lubelskie, Podkarpackie, Warmia-Mazurskie and Podlaskie voivodships, the threshold decreases from 60% to 40%. Investment in medium-sized cities, dedicated to the strategic project "Strategy for Responsible Development', will be particularly promoted within the framework of quality criteria. Furthermore, it is worth noting that medium-sized cities losing their economic and social functions are covered by an additional, separate programme for the regeneration of medium-sized cities. In addition, preference will also be given to other medium-sized, small, urban-rural municipalities and rural communities if the unemployment rate in them is equal to or greater than 160% of the national average. What benefits do we expect? Main benefits of the new law: First of all, the whole of Poland is a special economic zone, a complete departure from territorial restrictions on the adaptation of the instrument to tax exemptions, while respecting the rules concerning the destination of the land. The territorial availability of the instrument will remain dependent only on the destination of the site. This will eliminate the current territorial restriction - a maximum of 25 000. ha of the country's surface, i.e. 0.08% , a long-term procedure for changing the boundaries of special economic zones for an entrepreneur. The handling process will become simpler and will not restrict investors territorially. Secondly, setting the period of tax exemption, introducing a transparent rule - a decision to exempt a fixed-term tax, as a standard, from 10 to 15 years. The higher the intensity of public aid in the voivodship is allowed by the European Union, the longer the exemption period. At the same time, until the expiry of the current Act on Special Economic Zones by the end of 2026 - an additional 5-year preference for areas currently covered by the status and unchanged condition for existing investments. Thirdly, strengthening the role of management companies in the investor service system. Managing companies will become the main point of contact in the region within the one-stop-shop investor service system, i.e. one window in which investors receive comprehensive information regarding the entire investment process and the dedicated employee. Project manager will carry out the entire investment process, will support also at the post-investment stage and will be a regional coordinator of public aid in the area of the tax exemption and government grant instrument. They will also become a centre of knowledge for entrepreneurs about all aspects of economic activity in the region and will continue to specialise in sectors and sectors where they have a competence advantage. At the same time, companies will also be obliged to increase the investment attractiveness of the region. The development of the measures necessary to improve the attractiveness of the area companies will take place in close cooperation with JST companies and representatives of local entrepreneurs and various segments and industries. The companies will operate in the district areas defined by the regulation, which means the end of the price competition period between the companies used by investors to reduce investment costs. Fourthly, action for sustainable development: the differentiation of criteria supports both areas requiring development support and entrepreneurs to step up investment activities. Fifth, unemployment. The higher the unemployment rate in the county compared to the average unemployment in the country, the higher the investment requirements. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as R &amp; D and business shared services investment projects, criteria tailored to the company's capabilities and the specifics of R &amp; D and business shared services projects, reduced to the standard criteria for large companies carrying out industrial projects - 80% for medium-sized companies respectively, 95% for small companies and investment research and development and business shared services, as well as 98% for micro. These reductions are complementary, which means, for example, that the criterion for a micro-company in a county with the highest unemployment rate is 200,000. Polish zlotys for investment expenditures, open the possibility of obtaining support by micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We assume a greater inflow of investment in the less developed region. Here, at this stage of development, they are unable to meet the excessive demands of large investors, such as: infrastructure or access to human resources. The bill, as we expect, will be handed over to the interministerial consultation within two weeks. All questions will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u184	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u185	The unemployment rate in Poland is currently record low - it is only 7.1%. That's the lowest score in 26 years. However, there are areas demoted by a policy of non-sustainable development, areas with a still high, two-digit indicator, e.g. former Włocławski Voivodship area. They need support in attracting investors who create new jobs. They need support in the implementation of new investments. Are there - if so, what facilitations for these areas on the map of our country, so that they have a better chance of developing, new jobs and thus reducing unemployment and improving the quality of life of the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u186	Almost half of 255 medium-sized cities in Poland are threatened by marginalisation and crisis phenomena - this is the result of the analysis of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The greatest severity of the threat and loss of socio-economic and economic functions was diagnosed in Prudnik in the Opole Voivodeship from which I come. Mayor Prudnik's misguided policy led to a collapse. The textile and footwear industry, on which Prudnik traditionally relied, disappeared virtually completely, and one of the biggest problems is depopulation. My question is: Are there also additional forms of support planned in the area of change?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I would like to ask about issues related to investment areas, and more precisely about the cooperation of the Ministry with local authorities in creating incentives for the preparation by local authorities of areas for investors, e.g. by armament of road infrastructure construction sites, energy investments in the supply of gas... Maybe it's worth thinking about some targeted measures dedicated to local governments just for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u188	To date, the main objective of the state - one of the main objectives - of creating special economic zones has been to eliminate unemployment. Today, when unemployment is 7% , we are interested in creating highly specialised jobs, employing highly specialised workers, and, as a result, increase in paid salaries. Therefore, I have a question: What sectors are considered to be priorities, such as those where Poland can achieve competitive advantages?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u189	Unfortunately, we're in trouble because he didn't get to us... Who didn't make it? Minister Janczyk. Yes, sir. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 47 hours 12 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities (prints No. 1782 and 1850). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 27 September this year considered a government bill amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The purpose of this draft law is to implement Poland's obligations under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on key information documents on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. The Act identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the authority responsible for the supervision, compliance and enforcement of the provisions of that Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union and imposing administrative penalties for non-compliance with that Regulation. The provisions of this Regulation are mainly technical in nature, impose specific requirements on the creators of collective investment products and insurance investment products or on persons selling such products for the production of documents containing key information on those products. The EU regulation is of general scope and directly applicable in all Member States, but also introduces regulations requiring implementation in the national legal order, which is done in the proposed amendment of the law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 1 of the Law of 21 July 2006 is introduced. 3b, which identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the competent authority within the meaning of the Union Regulation. Art. 3c entitles the administrative penalties referred to in the Regulation to be imposed by decision. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 of the draft law shall be repealed. 1 of the Act of 11 September 2015 on Insurance and Insurance Activities, and paragraph 1. 2 is replaced by the following: Art. 3 sets the date of entry into force of the Act as at 1 January 2018. The original date of application of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union was 31 December 2016. However, as a result of the rejection by the European Parliament on 14 September 2016 of regulatory technical standards specifying the elements of the key information document, the European Commission postponed its application until 1 January 2018. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law is compatible with European Union law. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this draft Print Act No 1782. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u191	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I admit that as a member of the Committee on Public Finance since 2005, I have not witnessed that the work on the law within this committee has been done so smoothly, without any amendments. There were no substantive amendments at the last committee meeting, only four legislative amendments were tabled. This means that all Members of this committee are interested in getting the provisions of this law into Polish law. It is true that there has been a discussion on this law, but it has not resulted in amendments, so at this legislative stage the draft law has retained the form proposed by the government. As my previous speaker emphasized here, the purpose of introducing the provisions of this law into the Polish legal order is to increase the level of customer protection and meet the requirements of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. The regulations in this draft lay down the rules for drawing up key information documents on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. On the other hand, as the authority responsible for supervision, compliance with and enforcement of EU rules of the Regulation, which was implemented in Polish law, and imposing administrative penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, the government has designated the Financial Supervision Commission. In order to increase the degree of customer protection due to the fact that in the European Union there is a ban on the systematic control of the conditions of insurance products by supervisory authorities, the government in this Act introduces a provision obliging the insurance undertaking carrying out its activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland to forward to the committee a key information document at least 30 days before the start of proposing such a product to the customer and at least 14 days before the start of proposing an update of the functioning key information document. It's such a good security tool. It's possible to react. It is possible to evaluate and correct these documents. The members of the Committee on Public Finance have maintained the deadline proposed by the Government for the entry into force of the provisions of this Law as set out on 1 January 2018, although there was a proposal for 2016. However, the changes in Polish law have made this deadline optimal, and the Members of the Committee on Public Finance accept this term as the one to be respected in the implementation of these provisions. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this law be adopted in the form proposed by the Government of Law and Justice and adopted by the Public Finance Commission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u193	Thank you very much. Ms Bożena Szydłowska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the committee's report on the government project, print No. 1782. The draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities implements European Union law on Packages Regulation, Retail Financial Instruments. This regulation is the EU legislator's response to the high complexity of investment products and the associated risk of losing invested funds. Doesn't seem like it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a reasonable repetition of the provisions introduced by the Act and an explanation of what the KIDs are, i.e. the short financial information that insurers have to provide to their clients. But it's worth mentioning a few things. The changes are, of course, necessary. In fact, this law, as well as many other laws, is the continuation of the legislative process initiated by the PO-PSL government. The purpose of this law is, among other things, to designate and supervise the Financial Supervision Commission as the authority responsible for the enforcement and compliance of Regulation 1286/2014. These changes are rather technical in nature. They provide for the introduction of rules imposing certain documentation requirements on product-producing entities which place them on the market containing the most important information on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. In addition, the project provides for the power to impose administrative penalties for KNF, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The changes will also address other important legal issues, regulations or terminology. The regulations introduced are intended to improve the functioning of the Financial Supervision Commission in the matter under discussion in the Act. The bill presented, as mentioned by my previous speakers, is in line with European Union law and will not have negative effects on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, gives greater protection to financial market customers. And, as I mentioned earlier, it is a continuation of the work of the Civic Platform in this area. Therefore, my club, the Civic Platform Club, is in favour of the proposed legislative changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz'15, will now speak. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u196	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present my position on the report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, prints No. 1782 and 1850. The draft law deals with the fulfilment of the obligations incumbent on the Republic of Poland provided for in Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on key information documents on retail collective investment and insurance investment products, PRIIP, and provides for the designation of the Financial Supervision Commission as the body responsible for compliance and enforcement of the abovementioned provisions. Regulation, supervision and imposition of administrative penalties for non-compliance with those rules. The Commission for Financial Supervision will therefore be empowered to impose administrative penalties by decision. The Public Finance Commission did not make any amendments to the bill during its work. The adoption of this law will allow for the regulation of requirements for PRIIP product developers or persons selling such products concerning the creation of documents containing key information on retail collective investment products and insurance investment products. In addition, on the basis of Article. The 288th Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The project is therefore intended to implement European Union law, which Poland is obliged to implement. In view of the above, the Modern Club supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u197	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. These are 1782 and 1850 prints. The Committee on Public Finance adopted this government project, making only a few changes of an editorial nature, not a substantive one. The project generally implements European Union law. The implementation concerns Regulation No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on documents relating to retail collective investment products and insurance investment products as amended by Regulation No 2016/2340 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016. The Regulation is directly applicable in all Member States. The draft implementing the Regulation amends two laws. The first amendment concerns the Law of 21 July 2006 on the supervision of the financial market. In this respect, the draft law strengthens the role of the Financial Supervision Commission, indicates that the Financial Supervision Commission is responsible for the supervision, compliance and enforcement of the Regulation, including the imposition of administrative penalties by the Financial Supervision Commission for failure to comply with the provisions of that Regulation. The second law affected by this project is the Act of 11 September 2015 on insurance and reinsurance activities. The proposal requires the application of the provisions of Regulation 1286/2014 to the whole sector or insurance system. It introduces quite detailed provisions concerning the functioning of insurance undertakings, insurance agents, banks offering insurance investment products, insurance brokers and requirements for them. The project was subject to numerous consultations with the institutions concerned. In conclusion, it should be noted that the project implementing this EU law increases the level of protection of Polish insurance clients, increases their safety and, I hope, increases citizens' confidence in the activities of insurance companies and other distributors offering insurance investment products. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u199	Thank you very much. One Member joined the questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, this bill was adopted in consensus, not controversial, but I would like to refer to the justification contained in this government project. It states that the proposed law will have a negligible impact on the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to the extent resulting from the EU Regulation. I wanted to ask the Minister: In what situations can these medium-sized, small entrepreneurs be affected, and what may be the scale of these penalties imposed by the KNF? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Janczyk now has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs, the rapporteur, who referred here the work of the Committee on Public Finance, and all those who leaned on the draft law implementing Regulation 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The whole range of regulations and changes has been discussed here in detail, so I see no reason to refer to the thematic scope of this project. On the other hand, in answer to Mr Andrzej Noblet's doubts, I would like to say that in fact this regulation imposes obligations on financial institutions, and therefore this impact mentioned in the explanatory memorandum will be almost nothing. For some detail - perhaps for intermediaries who provide intermediary services in the field of acquiring various types of financial assets and instruments, this regulation will bring new responsibilities to a small extent, but we do not expect them to be an obstacle to business. On the other hand, on the basis of this regulation, in the synchronization of national and EU rules, I think that much more customers will be able to build more confidence in the capital market in Poland and become its real beneficiary and user. I hope so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u203	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: Road safety status and activities carried out in this respect in 2016 (print No 1547) together with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure (print No 1664). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Ms. Justyna Wing to present the document. You don't have a minister? We're having trouble with the Ministry's representative again. We need to announce a three-minute break. Yeah, but if there's no minister... Just a moment, sir. Let's wait. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 15 hours 13 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We're looking at item 16. The Minister should be the first, but in this situation I will ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present the position of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 June this year. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the document was considered: the road safety status and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016 and contained in print No 1547. This document was created at the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council - which, as I will remind you, is located in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction - as a result of the implementation of the statutory obligation imposed by the Road Traffic Law. It's an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed In accordance with this Article, the Chairman of the National Road Safety Council shall report annually to the Council of Ministers by the end of March on the state of road safety. The Prime Minister shall then submit such information to the Sejm and the Senate by the end of April each year. The National Road Safety Council report contains, first, information on the state of road safety for a given year, second, the characteristics of the most common types of road events, third, the assessment of the situation in Poland and in each voivodeship and, fourth, the report on the implementation of the implementation programme for the years 2015. The state of security in voivodships is presented in this report in a separate annex. As in previous years reports, so as to be able to compare the situation in individual voivodships with regard to road safety, the so-called. voivodship cards, which identify the main problems that occur in the voivodship concerned, and draw conclusions. Compared to similar reports from previous years, the main part of the document devoted much more space to the presentation of the actions that were undertaken by the government in 2016 and to the presentation of proposals. The statistics on road accidents presented in this report show that 25,500 people died on the roads of the European Union in 2016, i.e. about 600 people more than in 2015, of which in Poland in 33 664 road accidents - by the way: 697 accidents more than in the previous year - 3026 people died. Unfortunately, our country has also seen an increase in the number of people killed, which increased by 3% compared to the previous year, which translates into 88 lives. The average level of threat in the European Union reached 5 deaths per 100,000 in 2016. residents. I am talking about the indicator here, but unfortunately in Poland this indicator is still higher and stands at 7.9 people killed out of 100,000. Citizens, which places us on road safety issues, on the 4th place from the end of the European Union. The number of injured, including severe, also increased and amounted to a total of 40,766 people in 2016. It is 980 people more than in 2015. This indicator here has increased by 2.5%. When it comes to seriously injured people, it was 12 109 people and we have a year-on-year increase, an increase of 909 people, i.e. an indicator of about 8.1%. There was also a certain increase in traffic collisions. According to police records, there were 406,622. Since 2013, the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2020 has been in force in Poland. Unfortunately, the intermediate targets that were set in 2016 were not achieved and the number of deaths was exceeded. This also applies to statistics that apply to severely injured persons. The report shows that the characteristic problem of road traffic in Poland is a very high risk of vulnerable participants, especially pedestrians. Although there has been a 5% decrease in pedestrian fatalities, the number of severely injured pedestrians has increased by 4%. Very many deaths also result in frontal and lateral collisions, the most common causes of which are not adapting the speed to the traffic conditions on the road and not giving priority to the journey. According to the document of the National Road Safety Council, the cost of road accidents in 2015 amounted to about PLN 48 billion, of which almost 34 billion are costs of accidents. Due to the very long-term process of calculating the cost of road events values for 2016 they are not yet known. They will, I think, at a later date, be available and supplemented in the coming months, as well as, I think, presented to the Committee on Infrastructure and the High House. This report contains a number of information on tasks carried out at both central and regional level by individual members of the National Road Safety Council, including the partners of this secretariat. There were a great deal of tasks that were carried out in 2016 and were carried out, as, first, the development of guidelines for the management of speed on local roads, activities related to the acquisition of funds from the Operational Programme of the infrastructure and the environment for the years 2014 to 2020 and, in particular, an agreement on educational activities for vulnerable traffic participants, legal expertise, further: information and promotion activities, in particular addressing the issues of older people involved in road traffic. Further provision was made for surveillance and road rescue services, etc., etc. The report also provides information on the progress of the implementation of the 2015/2016 implementation programme, which clearly identifies issues related to the need to intensify the tasks envisaged for the implementation of the programme over a period of 2 years. The committee meeting also discussed the state of implementation of the recommendations for the future, which were included in the corresponding report of the National Road Safety Council Secretariat last year. These include, first, the reform of the road safety management system, including formulas, functioning and scope of competence of the National Road Safety Council itself. Secondly, an analysis of the rules that determine the area of road safety and then propose new provisions, including the development of a separate act on road safety. Thirdly, the construction of a system for collecting and making road safety information available, which will improve the implementation of a fact-based policy in this area at every level of management. I would now like to address in the second part of my speech the issues raised by Members during a very detailed analysis of the report. Firstly, very many Members have pointed out that there is still a very high risk of pedestrians. Radical measures must be taken here to prevent pedestrian accidents. It was proposed to return to the proposal for amendments to the law which were rejected in the previous term of the Sejm, which concerned a new regulation defining the preference of pedestrians in and around the transition. Secondly, the importance of education has been highlighted. It has been noted that the safety environments in road traffic for several years have asked for communication education to appear at both kindergarten and primary school levels as well as secondary school levels. First of all, it is about education in respect for the rules and mutual respect of those involved in the movement towards each other. In addition, it was pointed out how important training is for drivers to be properly trained. The Ministry was asked to introduce C and E classes into the secondary and vocational school curriculum, which is particularly important when it is worth recalling in Poland, about 50,000 are missing. drivers. The need for mandatory motorbike courses for those who choose to travel on the road with one motorbike with a capacity of up to 125 cm3 has been raised and have previously driven a passenger car. Here it is worth noting that, in terms of accident, this issue has been noted in statistics, which unfortunately speaks of an increase in the number of accidents in which people are injured and killed. Thirdly, in terms of education, attention has been paid to the significant and difficult role of media and social education campaigns. As we know, the main cause of accidents lies in human behavior, and on the roads lack of mutual kindness and sometimes negative emotions and stress prevail. It is therefore important to undertake long-term, long-term campaigns with such a message that would be adapted to the different age of the public and their way of participating in the road, relating to pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, motorcyclists. Members stressed that what will be given to young people is the most important thing in their life, especially as part of the movement, and even more so as drivers. Fourthly, attention was paid to the risks posed by the use of mobile phones by drivers, pedestrians and cyclists. Through the use of headphones, some road users are cut off from external information, and yet pedestrians and cyclists are dying in many situations because no signal of an existing threat has reached them from the external environment. This problem also needs a solution. Fifthly, as regards road infrastructure activities, it was requested that provision be made for the criminal liability of the road administrator for the marking which may pose a potential risk to road safety. In particular, here, some Members have drawn attention to an increase in the threat, which can be said to be from an analysis of the statistics available in this report. Namely, attention was paid to the increase of risk on district roads, to the underfinancing of powiats in the field of investments improving road safety. It recommended continuing the programme for the decommissioning of hazardous sites, with particular emphasis on district and municipal roads. In addition, Members pointed out the need to organise the management of roads of different categories in cities on the basis of the rules currently in force only in cities on the rights of the county, i.e. one common road manager of different categories. As regards important but problematic issues, it was pointed out that, for example, the causes of numerous accidents on the A4 motorway in 2016. Sixthly, various opinions were presented on the effectiveness of the cameras and the consequences of the elimination of their application by the municipal guards and municipalities. However, there were voices emphasising the positive impact of systematic speed control on traffic safety. It was stressed that state policy in this area should be reorganized and made sense, in particular that increased surveillance of motorways and expressways was requested, e.g. by introducing a staggered speed measurement. Seventhly, the committee was called upon to speed up work on the introduction into the Polish legal system of the European Union Directive, which refers to vehicle control stations, as this will have an impact on the improvement of the situation on Polish roads. After the eighth - this is the last point that I noted here from this discussion - was the positive effect of introducing a universal obligation for pedestrians to use retro-reflective elements at night outside the built-up areas. The vast majority of the Members and the experts' committee meeting welcomed the report prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Road safety status and activities in this field in 2016. I would like to stress this and thank the Ministry for this, too, because this report has been prepared very carefully and constitutes a very reliable, in-depth analysis of the situation in relation to the previous year. Of course, there was also a need for an even more detailed analysis of the causes of the most important threats and the increase in the number of victims of accidents, but this was due to the statistics presented here by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, and it is objective. The report presented should be a starting point for further work to improve safety on Polish roads, but at the same time be a commitment to cooperation in this extremely important action aimed at saving human life and health. The Committee on Infrastructure, at the end, I would like to emphasise, welcome and accept the report submitted by the National Road Safety Council on. The road safety status and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016, which was presented by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I therefore recommend that the High House adopt this document. Once again, I would like to thank all those involved, the experts, all the ladies and gentlemen for a very substantive and creative discussion which, I think, will have a very real, concrete impact on the actions taken by the government and by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction as regards legislative issues relating to this issue, which today is the subject of this item on the agenda, as every year, at the meeting of the High House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mrs. Justyna Wing to present the document. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u206	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I was honoured to present to you a report by the Polish Government on the state of road safety in 2016, in which a detailed analysis of the phenomena that occurred on Polish roads in 2016, including disturbing phenomena, was carried out, on the need to correct which we pay particular attention to and on which we lean as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. We are aware that improving road safety in Poland is a long-term process, which requires thoughtful and focused actions to achieve lasting results. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction led by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk pursues a policy whose focus is the citizen, a policy which is based on actual and empirically confirmed data, an in-depth analysis of the current rules, so that the law being constituted is a wise and coherent law, because it concerns the values of the highest human life. The actions taken are, as I have already said, aimed at achieving the specific most important objective of reducing the number of most tragic accidents. That is why we listen to all voices, both critical and acceptable. We are fully aware that the report we are presenting to you in 2016 is a report on which, I express this conviction, we would all like it to look different. That is why we are interested in all voices, opinions of drivers, associations and industry organisations. I would like to remind you, and I hope that this way we will be talking today about road safety on Polish roads, that regardless of whether we are ministers, directors, entrepreneurs, students or students, in the context of details of the 2016 report, we have one thing in common, regardless of the functions I have just mentioned - we are all involved in road traffic and we should all care that the level of safety on Polish roads is as high as possible. We believe that this is our shared responsibility and the objective for which we should work together. In view of the above, I would like to ask you that today's presentation and discussion of the report should be an invitation and that it should be received by you - as an invitation to cooperate, an invitation which results from a sense of co-ownership for the state of safety on Polish roads, to cooperate on this one of the most crucial initiatives for the development of the Polish society, i.e. to save human life and health. At this point, I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on Infrastructure who have thus come to the report during the meeting and the experts present at the meeting of this committee. Thank you for your positive opinion on this report and I believe that this is a very good forecast for the future when it comes to road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, in respect of 2016, on the roads of the European Union to give you a picture, 25 671 people were killed, 135 000. He was seriously injured. 3026 people died in Poland, 12 109 suffered severe injuries. The average risk level on the roads is five deaths per 100,000. residents. In Poland this indicator is 7.9 per 100 thousand. citizens, which unfortunately makes us fourth among countries with the highest risk of life and health in road traffic. However, it should be noted that over the last 10 years, i.e. in the years 2007 and 2016, we reduced the number of deaths to 100,000. The population is about 46%. Unfortunately, this is 33 664 road accidents, 697 more than in 2015. This upward trend is almost 2.1%. This is, as I said, 3026 people who died, 88 more than in 2015. That's 40,766 injured, 988 more than in 2015. That's 12,109 people badly injured, 909 more than in 2015. What are the reasons for the increase in accidents? I'm sure everyone would like to know why so negative and disturbing indicators. In 2016, by 15%. the number of vehicles registered for the first time increased in Poland compared to 2015. According to CEPiK data in 2016, 1 822 049 vehicles were registered in Poland for the first time, in 2015 it was 1,584 522, which of course contributed to the increase in traffic on Polish roads. In 2016, by 8.4%. The number of driving licences issued for the first time was increased in Poland compared to 2015, i.e. again using the data from CEPiK for 2016, for the first time in Poland 453 590 documents were issued, which in fact means an increase in the number of new, young drivers who appeared on Polish roads. This is also what I must remind you of, the exclusion from the traffic surveillance system on 1 January 2016 of about 400 devices used by municipal and municipal guards. No matter how we analyze this process, that is the case. This is also much more frequent than in previous years the choice for the place of holiday Poland, which of course makes us happy, but also translates into the intensity of road traffic in Poland. These are relatively favourable fuel prices, encouraging us to travel more frequently. However, I would like you to know that not all indicators were so negative. If we compare 2016 to 2014, it should be assumed that the downward trend has not been reversed since the number of accidents decreased by 3.7. The number of people killed decreased by -5.5, unfortunately the number of people injured increased by 3.5%. In 2016, indirect objectives of the National Road Safety Programme were pursued. Unfortunately, in the case of both fatalities and injuries, we have noted a deviation from the assumptions contained in the National Road Safety Programme. The 2016 target was 2613, the result is 3026, the severely injured were 8462, the result is unfortunately 12 109. In 2016 we saw an increase in the number of victims among the managers compared to 2015, i.e. an increase of +4%. , and passengers of vehicles +14,1. On the other hand, the number of fatalities among vulnerable participants, i.e. pedestrians, decreased by 5.1 and the number of deaths among cyclists decreased by 9.7. Let me also tell you, in the light of these worrying indicators, which in every case means people, what actions the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council has implemented, so that this downward trend I have been talking about is preserved and that these tragic figures for 2016 look much better in 2017. Four contracts were signed for projects implemented by the SSR under EU funds, contracts for implementing actions such as the implementation of nationwide training for road managers, the development of educational materials and teaching tools for children and young people, education for vulnerable road users and the respect of existing legislation, i.e. those promotion measures referred to, in order to promote respect on Polish roads, in order to promote compliance with the law, with regard to the perception of this road as also being used by other users, education and development of appropriate behaviour, or to influence appropriate behaviour at all stages of education. The agreements were signed, including representatives of the management, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Chief Command of the Police and the Polish Motor Association, in the field of organizing BRD tournaments. These are tournaments organized at both primary school and higher education levels. These tournaments are very interested, their participants are trying to cheer each other up. I know this because I had the opportunity to participate in one of the finals of this tournament, to talk to those young people who took this task with the highest commitment. It is also the implementation of information and promotional activities of... road safety, as well as a project of information for people coming to Poland in connection with a powerful event on different scales, i.e. World Youth Day. It is also a material that will now be used by its distribution to our consulates outside the borders. The recipe for... road safety is 11 language versions. It is also about the mobile app This campaign has aroused discussion with conviction, and we believe that this is extremely important. Perhaps instead of shocking, we should sometimes encourage conversation, as well as such greater attention and attention to the topics that concern all of us. Expertise has been drawn up on the safety of pedestrians and cyclists in the area of EU and Polish legislation, with the conclusions of de lege ferenda. It is also a project of a catalogue of tasks to be carried out in the area of rescue and post-accident care. A proposal was made for the report to be used so that together with the staff of the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council and with all interested in the work or cooperation to improve the safety of Polish roads we can draw up a recommendation on future actions. A legislative change team has been set up, which cooperates very closely with representatives of other departments. This is an inter-ministerial team which also analyses the interpellations that affect the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction for specific legislative changes. This is a team whose activities are based on legal expertise on existing legal status in the Member States of the European Union. And this is a team that will certainly present very concrete legislative changes in the near future. It is also a team whose work concerns the system of collecting and using road safety data. We believe that there should also be some effort in this area in terms of standardisation, perhaps better definition in some cases, of the data we use and which we use, among others. to the annual report. So we are focusing on the fact that this systemic reform, which was mentioned by Minister Polaczek, concerns all the components of this system. One of these is the construction of a system for collecting and sharing road safety information. In cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, we managed to build and introduce an electronic road event card and build a map module for SEWIK. We have also focused our attention on cooperation or improving the effectiveness of cooperation between the current participants in this system. These are voivodship troops, voivodship councils. For the first time, it was possible to establish a contact map, resulting in a common calendar of actions, so that concrete initiatives taken by the secretariat, by the National Road Safety Council, could later be implemented also at the level of voivodships and individual regions, in which for example. in certain areas, this statistics look the worst. We were talking about activating the voivodship road safety councils, their secretariats, so that they also felt involved in these activities at central level. We have also paid great attention to ordering the issue of road marking - it seems to us that in some places we are still dealing with the so-called. the problem of allocation - and questions concerning the appropriateness of the use of the label on specific sections. The organization of traffic on sections of certain national roads in selected voivodships was monitored. 2350 km of roads have been checked. It should be noted that there have been issues during this audit that would definitely require some adjustment. And this information was sent to the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to address the deficiencies. The issue of speed management is also important here. The Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council has developed guidelines for local road speed management. This is a document that has been sent out to use, to implement. In practice, this means ready knowledge prepared by experts, which, of course, can be used with good will. We continued our efforts to provide surveillance and road rescue services. In November 2016, four new bases of the Helicopter Service for Medical Rescue were launched in the country. This is a very important project, it has a very specific dimension - the purchase of specific equipment to facilitate action in emergency situations. In order to illustrate what I have said, I would like to mention a number to you. During the operation of this base, for more than one month, the crew carried out a total of 99 missions. The emphasis on the protection of older people in road traffic has been increased. Senior Cycle Weekend Initiative. The safety of Seniors is also continued this year because of the very positive reception it has experienced. This is action. not only information and promotional, but also containing other elements, such as those related to health protection. It shall be implemented by the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council. A system of assistance has been developed and implemented for victims of road accidents. A database of entities was created and for the first time a catalogued version of the address list was created, which was distributed according to a wide distribution. Information has been provided on non-governmental entities and institutions which provide assistance to road accident victims free of charge in their statutory activities. The database is publicly available on the website of the National Road Safety Council. We have also developed and distributed a catalogue of guidelines, good practices - first of all it concerns speed management and pedestrian transitions - and we have made a comprehensive diagnosis of training needs related to improving the system of permanent road safety personnel training. This is another action carried out under EU programmes, specifically through national training for local road managers in the application of engineering measures to improve the safety of road users. This is the most important information I've ever wanted to give you. I would like to emphasise once again that we are dealing with road safety in a horizontal aspect. We believe that this is a subject that should bring together the environment and bring us together so that we do not have to wonder why we are in such a place and not elsewhere among the countries of the European Union. This is a topic that should absolutely focus on factual analyses, thoughtful actions. First of all, we should all be aware that every decision and every action we take is on the other side of a man who may be a fatal victim in a moment or who may be seriously injured in a particular event. Let us, at the end of this speech, present a sample of what most of you - I hope - have already seen, because this is a campaign already implemented. This is a very concrete example of what the realization of what I was talking about looks like in practice. Thank you for your attention and please present your spots. [[Applause]] [[Spot Presentation]] Thank you. Thank you, Marshal. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u207	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Bogdan Rzonca.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Both the Minister and Mr Polakzek presented the data contained in the report on road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in 2016. From this information and from this report it is clear that we have more and more drivers and more cars, that it is dangerous, dangerous and that it can be dangerous. But there is also good information about the tendency to reduce the accident rate, which is, of course, made up of many factors. The whole of Europe notes this problem, because if there are more than 25 000 calls for security conferences. killed on the roads, that is, all countries are interested in this problem - and rightly so - and all countries are analysing the losses resulting from these events and talking about the cost of road events. Thus, recent years have brought noticeable improvements in road safety in Poland. Since 2007, the risk of death in road accidents has decreased by 46% in our country. Although we have reason for optimism in Poland in view of the positive changes observed in recent years, their dynamics are still insufficient to match the biggest European countries that are most successful in this area. I'm not going to give you any details that have already been mentioned, about the number of people killed, wounded, etc. Let me just say that the highest number of deaths per 1000 km of road length was marked by national roads in 2016. That's where most people died. The indicator was 62 and was 8.8 higher than in 2015. For expressways, there was an increase of as much as 62% and a decrease of 17.9% on motorways. In 2016, most people died in August, i.e. 312 people. This is due to the fact that a significant number of Poles last year and this year used roads during vacations. This is definitely one of the reasons for this growth. The largest increase in the number of deaths in accidents compared to 2015 was recorded in June, i.e. 28% , and in May, an increase of 21%. Significant improvements were made for months: January, where 22% died. less people than in the same period of 2015 and March in which there was a decrease of 12.4%. Each year accidents, road collisions affect the economic interest of the state and citizens, as they consume resources that could theoretically be used for other social purposes, such as education and hospitalisation. The amount of PLN 34 billion for which losses are estimated is appalling. Anyone who is interested in the cost of road events must remember this amount. It should be much lower, people would be safer. The biggest contribution to the accident cost structure was the cost of the seriously injured. These costs are as high as 78%. There are costs directly related to the death rate of 18%. , then costs for slightly wounded, which amounts to 2% , and material losses - 2%. The diagnosis of road safety hazards in Poland, which has been conducted for years, clearly indicates excessive, unadjusted speed as the main cause of road and traffic accidents. About 30% accidents are caused by the driver's fault. In a group of fatal accidents, this proportion is 40%. The very important, important, continued and new activities of the National Road Safety Council in 2016 are a very important part of this report. I would like to stress that it is constantly paying attention to tasks in the field of emergency medicine and disaster medicine. This is what we should pay more attention to, because those who are saving are very important in these aspects of accidents. Educational activities are very important, including various types of education agreements, which cause, say, an increased interest in education, security. All these data, which are contained in the report, should simply be known to the general public. Any campaign aimed at road safety must be noticed, and all costs must be analysed, because there are a lot of lost benefits here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask for a report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u209	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Żmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform shall submit a position on the government document contained in Seym Printing No 1547. This document analyses the state of safety of traffic on Polish roads in 2016 and describes actions affecting road safety carried out at that time by the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council and the infrastructure and construction resort. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been seeing a steady trend in improving road safety in Poland for over a decade. Basic indicators reflecting safety on our roads have improved systematically in recent years. Every year, the number of road accidents decreased: almost 50,000. up to 33 000 in 2007 in 2015 The number of deaths decreased radically from 5583 killed in 2007 to 2938 in 2015. And this was not the result of the hysterical reaction of the highest state factors to major disasters, as Mr Adamczyk, President of the National Road Safety Council, noted in the introduction to the report, but it was the result of the consistent implementation of the road safety programme. You have participated, Members, also Minister, in the work of the Committee on Infrastructure. Unfortunately, the number of road accidents and the number of fatalities increased last year in 2016. I would prefer to subscribe to the report's thesis that this is an incident, not a permanent reversal of a favourable trend in road safety. However, it is worth asking ourselves a question and making a deeper analysis of whether it is not an image of what affects road safety and what happened in 2016. The point is that the level of road safety is primarily due to the technical state of the road infrastructure. For more than a decade, we have consistently implemented two key programmes: the construction of motorways and national roads and the construction of local roads. Unfortunately, the infrastructure resort slowed down the programme in 2016 under the motto of cost optimization. Today, after almost two years, the program is resumed. So? And the unit cost of the new contracts doesn't differ from that of the predecessors, but we've lost almost two years, so there are no roads that can be safely moved. The planned budget for the local road programme for the following year is cut by PLN 300 million, instead of PLN 1100 million we will have PLN 800 million. It's hard to disagree with the idea that we're all responsible for road safety. First of all, as road participants. And, of course, every day we can be the drivers, but also the pedestrians, when we have to get to our vehicles. In particular, social activity and determination are important. At this point it is worth noting that there was a decrease in 2016 in participation in road accidents of participants, which were pedestrians and cyclists. This is undoubtedly the result of many years of efforts to separate traffic flows. unprotected motor vehicles, i.e. the construction of pavements and bicycle paths financed from both central and local government budgets. But in fact, it was the activity of associations and social organizations that led us to change the law for pedestrians and cyclists. But today there is much evidence that bottom-up initiatives by NGOs will also be slowed down by central funding, read: manual control. This has already been the case with voluntary firefighters who first provide assistance to victims of accidents on local roads, deep in the province, and their financing is already being carried out by the central authorities. Finally, Minister, it is worth considering, of course, continuing and using the existing instruments - improving infrastructure, improving rolling stock, education, the media, information - whether it is not time to empower the National Road Safety Council and equip it with an operational budget rather than just a budget to serve it. Mr. Marshal! My club will, of course, vote in favour of this report, because, to a fundamental extent, our governments, the governments of the POs and PSL, have contributed to this favourable trend in road safety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What happened last year, on the other hand, will be analyzing - hopefully also the resort - and we will draw conclusions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u211	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u212	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: the road safety status and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016, together with the position of the committee. These are 1547 and 1664 prints. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the report presented is a photograph of a certain state. I would like to express our positive opinion here that this report year after year is, I would say, somewhat expanded, deepened. Some information is better presented, to a wider extent. That's good, and we expect this trend to be maintained. We expect more and more detailed information from year to year, a certain analysis of them, an aggregation of what is in some way obvious, so that we can draw conclusions and translate this report, translate this photograph into ideas for the implementation of these actions, which will increase the level of safety on Polish roads. And since it's important, I don't have to convince anyone. I always say it's our common goal to get everyone home safely at the end of the day. I think this should be the subject of our very careful concern. Ladies and gentlemen, the information provided shows that, unfortunately, these statistics have gone up a little bit, which is, of course, unfavourable with regard to road accidents. As my previous speakers said, there are more than 2% more than in 2015. Unfortunately, it also died in these cases ok. 3% more people. It is also worth noting that the wounded, including the hard ones, were also 2.5% more and people who are badly injured - more than 8% More. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a very bad phenomenon, very multifaceted too, because on the one hand, this is of course a tragedy, on the other hand it also generates some costs, and these costs in this case are significant, both social and financial. There has also been a significant increase in traffic collisions. So we have about a year, but I hope, like my previous speakers, that it is a certain, nomen omen, an accident at work that this trend that we have been observing for many, many years, will still continue. On the other hand, we should wonder why this is happening, and we should analyze it, for example. draws attention to the significantly increased mortality and accident among motorcyclists and motorcyclists. Well, sometimes there are some legislative initiatives, we are under pressure from the lobby, and it's not always a good idea. Where road safety is at stake - I am talking about changes in the previous term - we should be very careful whether changes in this area will not affect the deterioration of road conditions. The same applies to trucks, where unfortunately we also have growth. And that's, I'd say, even surprising, because there's training. This is probably due to the fact that new drivers arrive, that a large group of drivers are nationals of countries other than Poland. Maybe there's a reason for that. But it should be even more encouraging for us to start these schools, classes, educate our drivers and equip them with the ability to drive a truck, so that they can learn, to train at this stage. Ladies and gentlemen, this age of people is still a problem that exists. Once again, I call on the government side to introduce this trial period, however, as soon as possible, where it forces young drivers to do so, I would say, increased caution in driving, because this entails very serious consequences if the principles of safe driving on the roads are not respected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to conclude by saying two things. The issue of education, education and education again. What the shell soaks in when it's young, it's the old one that gets knocked out. I'd say in terms of behavior on the road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is crucial for increasing the level of security. Finally, I will also appeal to the Ministry to end the infirmity and determination to introduce a programme to liquidate dangerous places. These are really points that need to be eliminated. This helps to reduce the number of road accidents and I hope that the Ministry will take this to heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u213	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to admit and stress that the document itself, the report itself is not only extensive - it is good - but it is filled with the relevant content, it illustrates all these events, all the situations, it shows everything that has happened in the area of road safety, it also illustrates activities and administrations, and entities as road users in order to improve this condition. The document itself is filled in with relevant content, which is clear enough, clear and contains many tables and graphs in graphic form, which allows for obtaining a significant number of information whether it allows anyone interested to draw up various sets and comparisons. I would like to point out, following the analysis of this report, that compared to the reports from previous years, that the good trend is that this improvement in safety is noticeable. I think, as my predecessors, the previous speakers stressed, that these indicators, which were increased in 2016, this was a one-year case for various reasons, which should certainly be diagnosed, and I think they will be drawn conclusions in the near future so that they can be properly used. One thing has to be admitted is that, despite such a significant increase in the number of road users, i.e. above all, the number of registered vehicles, I mean the constantly increasing number of drivers who obtain powers, this increase in adverse events and unnecessary events last year was relatively small. However, I am thinking and suggesting here that we should continue to work to better prepare young people or new people for driving. Action should be taken to introduce these new principles, habits in this co-existence in road traffic. I'm talking about these relationships that are between drivers of motor vehicles, one-track vehicles and pedestrians. It would be very important, as I think, - here it has already been emphasised by the chairman of the committee in his speech - to draw attention to this and allow financial and organisational support to local governments, so that in cases of difficult situations in changing road infrastructure in voivodships, powiats and communes it could be solved more quickly, especially in terms of dangerous places, construction of pavements, pedestrian routes outside cities. I would also like to point out here and stress that perhaps the investment process should also consider, when building roads, the possibility of a greater share of roads with concrete surfaces. Let's consider it. It is nothing new, but I think that local governments have experience in this, and the general management also, and maybe it is also [[♪ The bell ♪]] would contribute to improving safety. We will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u215	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the document submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers and the actions carried out in this respect in 2016 with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure. In the beginning, I would like to express my appreciation for the authors of the report. It is indeed a very comprehensive document, which contains data preceded by in-depth research on the intensity of road traffic, on the effects of road traffic in all areas, including social and financial. The report shows that we are not fully fulfilling the objectives set in the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2020. Unfortunately, Poland is still among the countries with the highest risk of life and health in road traffic, only Latvia, Romania and Bulgaria are at a disadvantage. The average level of risk in the European Union, which was reached in 2016, is the value of five deaths per 100,000. inhabitants, it is still much lower than the value achieved in Poland, i.e. 7.9 people killed per 100,000. residents. The report provides detailed data on this subject, so that I will not quote them here. Mr President, Mr Jerzy Polakzek presented this information in detail, justifying this information to the High House, and I would also like to address the issue of the causes of this situation, because last year, 2016 was the year of the increase in the number of accidents following such a sequence of permanent decline since 2001 the number of road accidents resulting in serious accidents, death or deep, severe injuries. Last year, unfortunately, there has been an increase in the number of such road events and the data presented in the report shows that one of the main reasons to be pointed out is the exclusion from 1 January 2016 of about 400 photographers used previously by local authorities by local authorities. The data contained in the report confirm a clear increase in the number of fatal accidents caused by drivers while decreasing the number of accidents for which pedestrians are responsible. The fact that the cameras are effective indicates the research commissioned by the Chief Road Transport Inspector. They show that where such devices were installed, the number of deaths decreased by 52%. However, statistics on the number of accidents caused by alcohol consumption are optimistic. In 2016, intoxicated road users, including drivers, pedestrians and passengers, participated in 2967 road accidents, and previously they were 3392 of this type. In view of these facts, the continuing high number of road accidents and their victims in the present dimension is becoming a critical social aspect. As a result, the prevention of this phenomenon requires coordinated, interdisciplinary action, in particular for government and local authorities. All road administrations, as well as the police, health services, communications, research and science institutes, education, road designers, as well as vehicle manufacturers and means of mass communication should be involved. The experience of other countries shows that the best results come from the combination of prevention, media campaigns, training of future drivers from an early age with modern control measures, electronic speed measurement devices and cameras. And here too, High Izbo, I would like to express my appreciation to the Ministry of Infrastructure for the social campaign that is currently being conducted in the media. We had here an example of one of the media spots presented by the Minister. Like my predecessors, I would like to point out that this is extremely important. Perhaps the problem of the intensity of such negative events on the roads lies in the nature of our nation, some kind of Ukrainian fantasy, which unfortunately has negative consequences. Especially young drivers forget safety and allow themselves to behave negatively on the roads. I think this campaign will produce positive results. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Marshal, High Izbo, summing up, Members of the Free and Solidarnia Members will be in favour of the report submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u217	Thank you. And Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There were a lot of good insights coming from this speaker today. I think we're all on the same side because we've been on the same side for years. We all want road safety, long-term projects to succeed. Success will be our joint success, because when we have created a National Road Safety Programme for 2013-2020, I am sure that we have all supported it and we will all be happy when we fall out as well as other countries that today are this positive indicator for us. Recent years have shown us that much can be done to improve road safety, although the assumed figures - for example, that in 2020 there will be only about 2 000. fatal accidents - they collapsed in the previous year. This curve, which was so nicely going down, showed us that it is more and more safe that passengers are safer, that there are fewer accidents that there are fewer collisions, fewer collisions, stopped. And that's what we've crossed that set curve by as much as 15%. Which shows that these assumed effects are probably not going to happen if we don't get the real news about what happened recently. The number of deaths against Europe is not the worst, we are somewhere in the middle of this rate of countries where it is very good and where it is tragic, but the situation is not satisfactory. I've prepared two extreme examples to show where we are. I don't want to duplicate the numbers or all the arguments that came from this speaker anymore, because we agree with them, and you can only applaud my previous speakers. Two things. What the Member, my previous speaker, said, good news: in 2016, the number of drunk drivers, the number of accidents caused by these drivers fell by as much as 5%, killed - by 5.9% , wounded - 4.8. It's a good symptom. Many years of working to show how important it is to avoid alcohol while driving, it has had a great effect. But on the other hand, I have a demographic indicator: the number of accidents per 100,000. residents. In this analysis the Łódzkie voivodship gets knocked out. Something happened there that we have almost twice as many accidents across the country. Demographic indicator: number of deaths per 100,000. residents. Again we have two voivodships: pomorskie and warmińsko-mazurskie, while in warmińsko-mazurski we have twice as many such cases. So some kind of sharpening doesn't work. Maybe there's less control, maybe there's less education, maybe... This is a specific number that shows us that when it comes to one voivodship, you have to learn from someone, and in the other voivodship something must be changed in the near future. As we have said here, we have ambitious goals, we have a long-term in-depth analysis of what happened in voivodships, on rail journeys, how many valuable educational projects we have. This is a huge reservoir of knowledge that we need to use. With consistent implementation, we should be successful. What Mr Jerzy Polakzek said at the beginning: this is an obligation We're all here to cooperate. I think... I keep my fingers crossed and what's wrong, too, I'm gonna tell you, but not to hurt, just to fix things to help. This is, as the Minister said, our joint commitment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u219	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still want to be on the list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'd like to ask you a question. As the first Mr Rafał Weber. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start by thanking the Minister - asking him to hand them over to Minister Andrzej Adamczyk - for signing a regulation that allows for installation on light signals of seconds that measure the time to travel. I discussed this topic in the previous year and in the spring of this year such a regulation was signed by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk and Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. Thanks to this in Stalowa Wola, at a very sensitive intersection, at a crossroads where dozens of road events occur annually, such seconds will soon be able to be installed. In our assessment and assessment of drivers from Stalowa Wola This will increase the safety of traffic at this location and the comfort and fluidity of driving. The request for the future is this - I discussed it in the Parliamentary Committee - to enable a city such as Stalowa Wola to take over national management. At the moment such opportunities have cities on the rights of the county and voivodship cities, while such cities as Stalowa Wola do not, and in our opinion it would also increase security in our city. This city would be responsible for managing all kinds of roads. This would improve, among other things. cleaning the city of snow. The last issue, to fellow parliamentarians, who discussed this increased statistics on accidents and deaths in 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to remind you that the same trend was in 2011 when the number of fatalities fell one-off after several years. Later actually until 2015 there was another decline. I hope 2016 is an accident at work...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u222	...and that this year and the years to come will only be better here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u223	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Zbigniew Aichler to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This report shows that Poland is the country with the highest risk of life and health in road traffic in Europe. Speed accidents are approx. 20 and 21% the general public. 425 people are killed in roadside trees, especially at the age of 20 and 24; that is 14% accidents. It's the drama of families, parents for the rest of their lives. There is an increase in the number of fatalities by 61 in 2016 compared to 2015. Minister, the use of spark-1 devices without video cameras to measure speed according to road experts is a bluff of the Polish Police and the suffering of many drivers. That undermines the credibility of the state institution. This is confirmed by the independent trade unions of the Greater Poland Police. Due to the losing processes already media police officers demand the Police Headquarters to withdraw these defective devices. The response of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to my interpellation on this matter is embarrassing: everything is okay. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When are you gonna pull that bullshit that's humiliating cops and hurting a lot of people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u225	Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask you two more questions. The first thing is what I was talking about when I presented my club position. The issue of trucks and drivers who are involved. Did you, in any way, examine this increased statistics and refer to who those who were involved were? Were those Polish drivers? Is there, for example, such a likelihood that these drivers were foreign citizens? The second thing I would like to ask is the question of the age of vehicles. Could the State provide an in-depth analysis of how the share of vehicles imported from abroad in terms of their age is being shaped in relation to whether this is the first or another user? Is the fact that these vehicles are so many, so many of them are imported from abroad in bad technical condition has an impact on increased accidents? I would very much like to ask for a thorough analysis, if possible, in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u227	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that road safety is affected by road quality. Mr Stanisław Żmijan spoke about this in his club speech. In this context, I would like to ask about the construction of the S19 expressway between Lublin and Kraśnik. The tendering procedure was launched in August 2015. It's been over two years. I feel like there's not much going on here. My impression is compounded by the fact that, when I asked Minister Adamczyk twice in the interpellations, I did not get a precise answer. Hence my question: When will the contract be signed with the contractor, which will allow the construction of this section of the S19? What will be the deadline for its implementation? Because the implementation of this investment will undoubtedly improve road safety by relieving the existing, crowded road section of the national road No 19. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u229	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u230	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The annual report of the European Transport Safety Council leaves no illusions. Poland is one of the most ungrateful countries in Europe. During the year, as many as 79 people die on our roads for 1 million inhabitants. It is more dangerous than in Poland only in Serbia, Romania, Lithuania and Bulgaria. Minister! However, the risk of death on Polish roads is the greatest in Europe when we consider the number of kilometres travelled. Nearly 16 deaths are recorded in 1 billion kilometers, while the European average is just over 6 deaths. I have a question for the Minister. In 2010, the European Union set itself the objective of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020. How does the Law and Justice Government intend to achieve this goal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u231	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! In my Zachodniopomorskie voivodship is the largest share of pedestrian accidents. What is the cause of this? What solution, Minister, do you have to eliminate this danger, to reduce the trend of pedestrian accidents in my voivodship and improve the state of road safety in our region? I could still say a lot about this, about various actions, about compliance, about talks with young people and children, about reflections, about bags, about cyclists, but we are talking about compliance. Talks, actions - but you can see your own - do not have such effects in us, and life shows something different and indicators alarm you. It's not until the tragedies become... So let me repeat the question: What are you going to do to change this trend of accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the 8 years of the coalition governments, the Platform and PSL have systematically maintained the trend, both in terms of the number of accidents and in terms of the number of accidents with the most dangerous consequences in which people died. Last year, this trend was clearly slowed down. The question arises: What caused this? Where are the reserves to reduce the number of accidents, especially the most drastic ones? Are you building new infrastructure? Or education? Should new equipment be introduced when it comes to intelligent transport systems? Is this about prevention and greater involvement of the Road Transport Inspections, the Police in inspections? If we respond positively that the construction of new infrastructure is the factor that reduces the number of accidents, then more money is needed for this infrastructure, especially for the schetiny. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will ask the Minister: Will there be more money in the new budget for schletinski? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u235	Thank you, sir. As the list of Members has been exhausted, please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Justyna Wing. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I should start by saying that first of all, I would like to thank you for all the opinions of the clubs, which were mostly positive opinions, I understand. They were two-faced, so we were talking about the document, about the report, about the way it was drawn up. Here I thank you, as I thank you at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, for the positive comments about the fact that this report is actually getting better every year, because these are comments and words of appreciation that should be addressed to people who are working very hard on this report and not only on the report itself, but also on the other aspect that you wanted to talk about, namely, that this report should reflect reality even when this reality in 2016 did not look like we all wanted it to be. However, let me stick to the assumption and I will talk about the BRD on the facts and on the interdisciplinary approach as discussed here. All the questions that have been addressed and perhaps also involved a slightly different approach, of course we will give you, gentlemen and ladies a written reply. The topic of the "Programme for the decommissioning of hazardous sites," the "Programme for the construction of national roads and motorways" for the period 2014-2023. As you know perfectly well, it is a programme whose limit has been increased, a programme which is implemented gradually by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and all contractors, because it is also the construction of roads which takes place in such a scheme. Of course, I can inform you within my scope, because this infrastructure is one of the components of a functioning system. Depending on which studies we read and which data we use, this is actually a percentage - from 10% up to 20%, some say up to 25% - the cause of the road accident, regardless of its consequences. This is also analysed in terms of what should be the standard, what is the technical condition, regardless of the fact that we are dealing with a specific category. We have the information provided, we have the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we still have the planning documents of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, i.e. The road network action plan, in which the objectives of improving safety are achieved by improving the technical parameters of a specific section of the road, taking into account road safety activities, is the "Troke and Bikeways Construction Programme" - these are the components of the "National Roads and Motorways Construction Programme," which focuses on tasks aimed at improving the level of safety of pedestrians and cyclists, i.e. vulnerable road users - and we have a "Trokery Reduction Programme," which collects point-based actions, i.e. where risks or potential risks are identified. You also asked about the implementation of certain sections. I'm asking you to be patient here. I guarantee that all roads are treated with the same priority for a simple reason: we are building a sustainable road and rail transport system and we are definitely focusing on this. As for the division of truck drivers depending, I understand, on citizenship, because that's what we're based on, we didn't have such a detailed analysis. We receive media information about new users of Polish roads in connection with certain processes or events of a slightly broader nature. Of course, we analyze it, we try to support it, to reach out to these information groups, and we certainly treat it a little bit more than just in terms of statistics and the impact on the state of the BRD in Poland. The same applies to vehicles from abroad that participated in a road event or because of which the technical condition occurred a specific road event. I can assure you that this is an argument that we will take into account and which, when preparing or preparing the next report, will also be analysed by us. As regards the European indicators, those of 2010, taking into account the recent meetings of the forums of the various European Union bodies, inter alia. Councils of formal and informal transport ministers - the last one on road safety issues, took place in Malta - I can make it clear that these indicators are extremely ambitious and these are not ambitious indicators only for Poland in terms of reducing the number of victims, because this is already not half what we are still calling for and what we are trying for, but this is a zero rate practically and at a rate which I think there is no discussion on. We are all acting in such a way that we really achieve this zero rate in this particular topic. What are we gonna do? I think that this information I have provided you about the integrated actions undertaken by the Secretariat of the National Road Security Council is actually what I should just repeat at this point. Should the National Road Safety Council become more subjective than it currently has? It's probably going to be one of the subjects of an in-depth analysis. So far, we have focused on maximizing the integration of this system and these different links actually connect together, or at least at this first stage communicate. The National Road Safety Council, and its secretariat in particular, is currently based on EU funds, uses the money available under the Operational Programme and implements information and promotional activities from this programme. I suppose if it weren't for this, we couldn't have done most of these things. It sends me back to unprotected participants of the movement, who were also asked about it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when it comes to the use of modern methods of communication, when we talk about younger people, this is certainly the Internet, two of the three information campaigns have been carried out. Those were Twitter spots, that was so-called. viral. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the last viral prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, which at the moment has very good statistics on the number of views and the number of so-called. A message, that is, passing it on. Full agreement that a good system is building infrastructure, prevention, supervision and education. I think that indicators for 2017, which we already have, and which are definitely more optimistic than those for 2016, show that we are going in the right direction, that the introduction to the programme basis of elements of communication education is also a good forecast for the future, and what we care about most, i.e. shaping the right attitudes, will also take place in Poland, so that regardless of how we analyse the state of road safety in Poland, with which statistics we will collide it or count: whether we count on 1 km or in terms of the number of inhabitants, we will always fall out in these statistics positively, which I wish and you. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u237	Thank you, Minister. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polak, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Literally a few comments on the canvass of problems and some of the questions that were raised in the course of the discussion. Once again, I would like to remind those of you, especially those who have asked questions here, and are not members of the Committee on Infrastructure, of the recommendations that come from the discussions and were coming about the 2016 report, which concerns the state of safety on Polish roads. I'll remind you of these system recommendations. This is, first, the reform of the road safety management system, including the formulas for the functioning and competence of the National Road Safety Council. An open question can be asked, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. whether such a body should not provide all key system issues that will respond to trends or negative phenomena that will appear in these statistics, because this is the basic expert forum, the tool of the Minister of Infrastructure to create politics. I would also like to remind you that one of these recommendations was the analysis of the rules that determine the area of road safety and the presentation of proposals for new provisions, including the development of a completely new act on road safety. That's the second system response. Thirdly, this is the construction of a system for collecting and making road safety information available, which will improve the implementation of a fact-based policy in this area at every level of management. What does that mean? This means that access to these data, to a specific area - voivodship or district, is possible and should be possible at the level of each road manager or the management board of the voivodship roads or district roads, also to conduct an appropriate point policy on the area concerned. Here one of your fellow Members pointed out that the highest number of fatalities involving pedestrians is probably in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. It is not just a network of national roads, it is also a network of local roads of different levels, and it is necessary, so to say, to link together in such a way as to identify these causes and to deal with these phenomena. I would also like to draw attention - I left this out as rapporteur, and this was, I think, one of the important voices which in the discussion fell as some kind of request, addressed also, outside the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - that an important issue which requires careful analysis in relation to the causes of the threat on Polish roads and this hesitation in statistics for 2016, is the systematic conduct of research and supplementing the statistical data collected by the police with information that characterizes these changes to a wider extent and which relates to the network, to the equipment of roads, to the park of vehicles, to the maintenance of traffic participants, to traffic offences committed, until reaction, for example. for medical assistance, etc. There's a lot of these things, and they're pretty much system-based. I think that the in-depth insight of this report for 2016, its objectivity and the discussion and conclusions that are coming, have already been the basis for the very important and decisive actions of the infrastructure and construction department, which also have their translated into legislative work this year. Finally, I would also like to refer to the issues that have been raised when it comes to, for example. about the statistics of fatalities in certain categories, note that it requires a very thorough analysis of the situation, and here should also be drawn conclusions, after a change which was made 2 years ago - the amendment of the Act introduced the possibility of moving one-track motor with a capacity of 125 cm3 without having to take an additional driving course on the motorcycle. After all, we have to reflect this as early as a year and a half after this change, and in this regard this statistics have deteriorated dramatically. and we need to find an answer to this, which will also be translated into appropriate changes to the road safety regulations. All these issues simply require continuous monitoring and analysis. Hence, this general request from the discussion of the report to strengthen the position of the National Road Safety Council legally, financially and in any other respect, is a starting point that has been supported by all clubs and parliamentary circles. I think that the Ministry will draw very practical conclusions from this in the course of further work and will also present enough to say, obvious and desirable simply proposals, expected and expected by the public, and by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Please inform me if there are known reasons for such a high number of accidents per 100,000. residents in the Łódź Voivodship. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u241	The Committee on Infrastructure calls for the adoption of the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: the road safety status and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016 and contained in print No 1547. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (print No 1753). I ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u242	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear parliamentarians, in fact, dear citizens, because I will address you today. I'm not gonna convince anyone else in this empty room anyway. Do you know that more than 80% Doesn't the public trust politicians? Do you know that more than 90% of citizens are in favour of increasing the tax-free amount? Today we begin the action: a fair parliament. The nation can no longer tolerate this legal dualism, where separate rules apply to the general public, and separate rules apply to the extraordinary caste of parliamentarians. It can't be that colleagues make special rights for their colleagues. It cannot be that a citizen steals a waffle and goes to prison, and a parliamentarian shows his ID and charges himself 10 times the tax-free amount. Of course, there will now be arguments in this House that not taxing the amount of free money is really a return on our costs, Members. The problem with this argument is that all our costs are already borne by taxpayers. I'll trade you $35,000. PLN per year on the so-called kilometers, free public transport, free rail rides, including the first class of Pendolino with free lunch, free flights all over Poland, PLN 7300 for hotels all over Poland per year, from Jurata to Zakopane, PLN 30 thousand. for an apartment in Warsaw or a hotel, even with free sauna, swimming pool and gym - I checked myself. It's about what costs Are we talking here? I'm moving on to the substance, which is the project. The main objective of the project is to align the situation with tax on income tax for all taxpayers, so that one social group, parliamentarians, is not privileged to others. The new tax-free amount will be as much as it currently amounts to for Members, i.e. PLN 30 451. A lot? Let's see what it looks like in other countries. I will skip the countries of South America or Africa, where this amount is sometimes 10 times higher than in Poland, let us focus on the European Union. The amounts exempt from income tax per euro are as follows: Poland - EUR 738 or 6% average salary, Denmark - EUR 6263 or 10% average salary, France - EUR 5963, 18% , Germany - EUR 8130, 20% of average salary, Luxembourg - EUR 11 265, 22% average salary, Belgium - EUR 8680, 23% average salary, Austria - 11 thousand. Euro, 32% average salary, Finland - 16 100 euro, or 40% average salary, Estonia - 6 000. Euro, 40% , United Kingdom - EUR 13 125, 42%, Greece - 5 000. Euro, 46% , Cyprus - EUR 19 500, 71% and Spain - EUR 17 707 or 73%. This shows that our proposal is not detached from European standards, and indeed much is missing from achieving these standards. Total taxation of work in Poland for the citizen is about 40%, i.e. a level of horror. Politicians like to emphasize in such cases that in highly developed countries this level is even higher, but they forget two things. Firstly, in these countries, wages are much higher. In Poland, the average salary is EUR 1050 per month, in France - EUR 3 000 and in Germany - EUR 3700, so despite greater taxation, the citizens of other countries are simply wealthier. Secondly, the rate of economic growth in high-tax countries is generally lower in those countries where the fiscal is less greedy. Mr Morawiecki, who is not here today, recently said that the government managed to deliver all promises without raising taxes. Apart from how many taxes have been introduced in this term, the Prime Minister has forgotten that freezing amounts and tax thresholds is a real increase in taxes. Moreover, according to the Prime Minister, another increase in labour taxation is being prepared through the introduction of occupational pension schemes. I'm addressing the citizens here. Help us promote our action: a fair parliament. We don't have 19 million extortioned from the Treasury companies for a pillar foundation, and we don't have a regime television to confuse the opponents of the PiS, a nation called public television, we only have you, citizens, we count on you. That is why we are asking for this information to be disseminated. We ask you to send messages, text messages to parliamentarians from your district and to convince them that you too deserve as much tax-free as the parliamentarians have. A just parliament is equal to and a high tax-free amount for all. Stop the extraordinary caste of parliamentarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u243	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! And a convention imposed: Citizens! I address all Poles. Yeah, yeah. [[Our employers.]] It's very catchy, very intelligent, even seductive, but fortunately there's the Internet. And I'll turn to my adversary, too, because that's what I have to say. It is very inconvenient to defend the good name of Parliament, but I am primarily defending the truth and accusing the young Member - including the club - whom I have sympathy and respect for. Why? The rule here has just been broken - it's about lawyers, Mr. Marshal - to present the truth, only the truth, but most of all the truth. Everyone look on the Internet and do two things: carefully read the draft law contained in print 1753 and the justification, exactly and carefully, like memento - still Members, Senators, Members, Senators. Yes, the manipulation is that when you read this project, you might think - this is a thought that unfortunately comes into being, imposes, and I'm sorry to say - that this is a gameplay. The project is completely unrealistic, totally cool, but the goal is to build political capital to discredit your own parliament. In order to strengthen my argument, I suggest you use the Internet, and especially the groom, I advise you to do so. I was here 20 years ago and I say this with all my strength: see how much they earned, what privileges they had, swimming pools, trains, hotels and all Members, and how it looks today, and harshly, justly assess whether these privileges have grown and grown or not. Answer that question, and then practice propaganda that there is a special caste. This provision, on the basis of which diets are released, is from 1991. And nothing tells us that there are no allowances for Members and Senators. Yes, among the more than 100 exempt items - I have them written here, it is very important, because it is all true, so all the allowances, diets, also in the case of delegations, the exemptions in question, more than 100 - there is such a position, it is true, there are also allowances for local and public duties. And there are 460 Members and 100 Senators, and tens of thousands in municipalities, local governments, seymikas. But you don't talk about them, you don't talk about them, you don't talk about them. It's not about that and the easiest of course... Because if I were you, I'm sorry to say... If we want to do this, let us change the law: the exemption is subject to a self-government diet except for Members and Senators. There you go. Small subject, real. And let's have a public debate. [[Applause]] Let the citizens not learn about us from the tabloids, yes, from the tabloids, from the fact. Normally, I'm embarrassed. I know it's an ungrateful role to defend here, but spit in your own nest? Don't do it that way, really. [[But this isn't the project...]] Don't really do it, because it's not true thesis... And those swimming pools... If anybody hears it, they'll make $1,000. zł... How much hate you cause. After all, you have beautiful motives, you can build your position, you have good polls. I wish you all this with all my heart. After all, we have so many goals and things in common. This is not the defense of the trough, this is the defense of the truth. This is the defense of the truth. That's what you have to say. And now I'm gonna say the second thing. I have little time, a minute left, so let me just say: even if there were no money known, I believe that the tax-free amount - I also send it to the Internet, please check - this is the amount, which is above all the limit of shame. Is Poland at such a level and we have no other goals in Poland today to direct money? Even if it were Karlino and oil, even if the reparations came from Germany, they were hospitals first, old people first, people who needed them first. We have so much needs and it is the amount for Members or for other high-income citizens that is the amount that, according to the tribunal, has the dimension of relief for the weakest and not the 30,000. That's very sexy. I gotta go, 'cause my time is almost up. I'm sorry for the excitement, but I've been here 20 years and I don't like it, and I don't think it's so secretive and clever. But that thought, unfortunately, comes to mind. Hence my elevation simply that building capital... And I ask you to tell the whole truth - the whole truth. Let us do, Mr. Marshal, the debate, let the citizens know what great privileges we have against other citizens, how our income and salaries have increased in the last 10 years, ahead of everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me about it, too. Please say the uncomfortable things. In conclusion, I am not honoured and not pleased, but a sad duty to submit an application on behalf of my formation to reject this law at first reading. [[Shame.]] [[And the debate?]] Let's do it. [[Exactly.]] I'm not ducking, I'm saying this in public, although I know it's a lot easier to attack than to defend it. The truth is hard to defend.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u245	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Konwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He asked me to say that this is a cool, unrealistic project and that there are many other needs. Only, sir, two real projects were already in this term of office in the Sejm. Among other things, the Committee on Public Finance has a presidential project raising the tax-free amount to 8 000. zł. And this is a project, I understand, real. There was also a Civil Platform project that you rejected at first reading, raising the amount free to 8,000. PLN and compensation for local governments. You rejected this project at first reading. And it's you for 10 months, 10 months before the election... At least 12 times that year, the candidate for President Andrzej Duda and the candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło said that it would be a priority for you to raise the tax-free amount to at least 8,000. zł. The president's project. What is the fulfillment of this election promise of yours? On 30 November 2015, the Sejm has a real project, using your language - 8,000. PLN tax-free amount. 1 December 2015 shall be addressed to first reading in the Sejm. It shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance on 2 December. So? Nothing. Do you know what happened at the time? We have the third head of the public finance committee. Jasiński in Orlen, Jaworski was in PZU and left PZU. And that's what the heads of the public finance committee did, not the presidential tax-free bill. 28 February 2015 Andrzej Duda, then presidential candidate: It's time to try and act in terms of raising the tax-free amount, because today in our country even the minimum wage earner has to pay the tax. Is this the way a reliable country should work? In countries where power is honest, whoever earns the lowest salary doesn't pay the tax. These are the words of the then presidential candidate Andrzej Duda. What are you doing in this term? You're gonna raise the tax-free amount, but how are you gonna raise it, who are you picking it up for? For people who make less than 11,000. PLN per year, or 917 PLN per month. A little bit of the minimum wage that President Andrzej Duda was talking about is missing. So this is a matter of... You know, on the one hand, you can say that the project is awesome, that it's unrealistic, but if you don't realize real - it would seem - your promises, then don't be surprised that such projects will appear. Twelve times, I counted, such declarations were coming from your mouth, from the candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the candidate for President Andrzej Duda. From 1 January 2016, according to Andrzej Duda, the tax-free amount must be increased to at least 8 000 at the beginning. zł and then gradually increase it. 7 July 2015 - Free amount among PiS priorities, raising the tax-free amount to 8 000 PLN and a reduction in the retirement age. As Beata Szydlo said on 9 July: I want to keep more money in Polish wallets, hence. the idea of raising the tax-free amount to 8 000. Evil for everyone. There was no differentiation then. Yet, you know, you can be mean. Speaking of this term, when you speak, you say that the project is unrealistic, and Prime Minister Szydło says, "Don't steal, it's enough for everything." Well, maybe we need to learn something here. It's a little bit like that, you know, you can go from your own rhetoric. A real project, unreal, but it really, really lowers taxes. We are ready to work on this project, realizing it perhaps, perhaps also returning to the project of the Civic Platform, which you rejected at first reading. Let me remind you: the tax-free amount of 8,000. PLN and compensation for local authorities. Don't you want to work on the Civic Platform project? There is a draft by President Andrzej Duda in the finance committee, thanks to which, among others. He won the election almost two years ago. Many times, Prime Minister Beata Szydło spoke about this tax-free amount. So don't be surprised that such projects will appear, because as you wiped your mouth for several months before the election, the amount of tax-free $8,000. Evil, it'll be said to you later. The Civic Platform Club is in favour of further work on the bill submitted by the Kukiza Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u247	Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry that Mr Cymanski, whom I very much like and respect, who himself says that he has spent 20 years in this Parliament, committed such a faux pas and wasted 5 minutes because he has missed the projects. I'm not surprised. The Kukiz Club15 submitted two projects. One when we tried to take Members and Senators, politicians, down to the amount of PLN 3091 citizens have. You rejected this project. But this project does not concern us, politicians, if I can say so, us, Members and Senators, just raising citizens to what we have. And that was the error of the Member because you defended Parliament, the High House, the Sejm, Members and Senators for five minutes and did not talk about citizens at all. [[Good name.]] A good name, and this project concerns citizens and this is what the Member should focus on. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, there is this inequality. I hope that during this debate - perhaps the last debate, because we know that this rejection proposal will pass, so we will no longer be able to debate further, although the Member himself encouraged us to debate, but at the same time twisted the head of this project, because you will reject it - I will know the answer to the question of what citizens are worse than us. What are people who sit in a gallery worse than Members and Senators? You think there's $27,000. reasons, because when we have the amount of PLN 30 451 tax-free per year, the ordinary citizen has PLN 3091. I know that in November last year, you tried to sober your eyes up so it would look nice on TV when you said: we raised the amount to over 6,000. for the least earners. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, in this country has been going the wrong way for many years, and in this term of office in particular. We still divide Poles into first category, second, better sort, worse sort, right-wing, left-wing. It was no different in November, the law entered into force on 1 January, because we divided the Poles again. Well, we raised the least-earning group to 6,6,000. zł, but in turn people who earn more than 127 thousand. zł, they will lose the right to deduct this tax-free amount at all. [[500 PLN.]] Moreover, they will practically pay more than 500 zlotys to the fiscus. We share taxpayers. This was the first increase in the tax-free amount for some Poles in the history of the world, which was a reduction for some Poles, and for others it was an increase. So we split the taxpayers again. And this project is only about treating everyone the same way. After all, the constitution says that everyone is equal to the law. But I don't think it's tax law, since some of them, as my colleague Kulesz said, have a higher amount of free money in this country. [[And all the locals.]] And self-government. We create the law in this parliament and we can rule out a group, for example. Members and Senators. [[Those who are going on a delegation, too.]] But we're not talking about politics right now. We say, lift the people up. What should we focus on in this bill? [[It's just us...]] 'Cause I know what you're gonna say. If we raise the tax-free amount to people, after all, the state budget will lose, we will lose PLN 50 billion, because this amount is mentioned. 25 billion from the central budget and 25 billion from local governments. But Kukiz's work15 also managed and we showed you that even if we lost this 50 billion, we immediately pointed out where to find the 50 billion. In order to cover this loss in the public finance sector, we said: let us transfer the funds from the Labour Fund, which means that we will save 12 billion, we said: let's reduce the deduction from income tax contributions to the NFZ from 7.75% the basis of the dimension up to 5% of the basis of the dimension, which will result in an additional PLN 19 billion on the part of the public finance sector. [[But you have to make it up.]] Finally, the missing 19 billion from VAT and CIT sealing and the increase in the VAT base due to increased consumption. This proposal to increase the tax-free amount will positively affect the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector by increasing labour supply resulting from the reduction of the tax wedge. We politicians have a 35% tax wedge. Just a citizen - 42%. [[Unless he's a councilman.]] You also know that this project is compatible with European Union law, so we do not have to talk about it at all. Another thing. Why in countries like Germany That's 20% of the average salary, 8,000. Euro and 19.5 in Cyprus thousands. EUR per year, or 71% A salary? Poland - EUR 738, 6% the average salary. In general, working in this country is a punishment, because the more I try, the more I learn, the more I earn, the more I pay. If I develop and exceed the amount of 127,000. A year, I'll pay a bigger tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which is why I regret that you've made such a request, perhaps you'll reconsider. Let's talk. We are the law in this country, in this House, and we can change all this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the start, maybe I can say that the Modern Club doesn't mind bruteing, aligning the Members' remuneration so that it's uniform, so that Kukiz15 can stop spreading his propaganda. Secondly, I'm going to say that the Modern Club doesn't mind raising the tax-free amount. We also submitted a project in this area in the Sejm, stuck in the Committee on Public Finance. He assumed that all Poles should have an equal, high and appropriate amount to our wealth and our income tax-free amount, so that it could eliminate the lack of possibility to write back the costs resulting from the maintenance of the workplace, which we as employees bear and which we cannot write back. But the Modern Club is against what Kukiz is doing in such a primitive and despicable way, acting for the needs of social media. Mr President, you have talked about all the privileges that parliamentarians can enjoy, but you have forgotten to say that Mr Kukiz has enjoyed these privileges with a handful of them15. We have an example of Mr Andruszkiewicz, who does not own a car, and last year he deducted his fuel for 40 thousand. PLN and used hotels for almost 5 thousand. zł. I've never had pork chop in Pendolino because I don't use it, sir. We have a Member, Marshal Tyszka, who has lived in Warsaw for many years and still benefits from an apartment payment, which is granted only to Members who live outside Warsaw. [[Applause]] And we have Paweł Kukiz, whose apartment in Warsaw we speak very loudly about, and whom I often see in the Seym Hotel, and the Seym Hotel... [[The darkest under the lantern.]] ...only serves Members who do not own real estate in Warsaw, which is more or less like me. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] So if you're gonna post your speech on Facebook, put my speech underneath, which is gonna disprove your myths, that you're the ones who want to fight some kind of system. This is one model of discussion. The most curiosity, however, is the fact that you really want to do this project, if you follow your reasoning, raise the amount free to 60 902 PLN to parliamentarians. [[That's right.]] Why? Because you're raising a free amount for all citizens to... [[Yes.]] ... 30 451 zł, [[Applause]] I'm not gonna rule it out... [[That's the goal, that's the truth. And over there, by the way, we're fired.]] ...the parliamentarians, and you don't even touch the bill on the salary of a Member and a Senator at all, [[Applause]] This amount is therefore free of 30,000. It stays the way it is. Summa summarum you're not evening up, you're raising citizens to... [[They're gonna make an amendment to Mr Romansky.]] ... 30 451 PLN, and to parliamentarians up to 60 902 PLN. [[That's a scam for citizens.]] This is just a cashier's heist in the performance of the Kukiz club15. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] The last thing you want to do. You said you were pointing out a source of funding. As a parliamentarians who thinks that... [[NFZ.]] ...the free amount in Poland is far too low for citizens, I would support any project raising the tax-free amount for which you would find a source of funding. But what are you doing? You say you want to... [[NFZ, 5%.]] ...take money, reduce insurance, deduction, health insurance deduction from 7,75% Up to 5%, you just forgot to say... [[What does that mean? Robbing hospitals.]] ...what that means, exactly. You forgot to say that you're going to reduce the budget of the NFZ by 19 billion, without indicating the source of the budget's completion... [[That's right.]] So, as far as the 19 billion are concerned, you want to extend the lines to the doctors that our seniors are waiting for... [[Horrible.]] ...and sick citizens. Because you should know, Mr President, as a parliamentarian, I think sitting on the Committee on Public Finance, that the money from the health contribution is affecting the NFZ, and that the write-off is coming from a completely different place from the state budget, and by taking this contribution, you will not be able to actually straighten it out. That's not enough. You're pointing... I'm basically in favour of stopping paying multiple times, counting down, but it takes... Here you need a large project to unify these flows, not some fictional amount you find that you will only shift this impact of money from one pocket to another pocket, from one shelf to another, pretending to give something to the Poles. In fact, you're not gonna give them anything, and you're gonna take the NFZ. It's a matter of the Labour Fund. Of course, as far as these measures are concerned, whether they are well spent or badly spent, it is debatable because there are various, inefficient programmes that are financed. And here's the issue of debate. But from day to day, taking this money away from the Labour Fund would also make it impossible for us to have money to handle, I don't know, new, students' own activities programs or, for example. We wouldn't have it for the pawnshop. You say we take 19 billion from the budget, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the sealing of the system, but at the same time some of your fellow Members support every day all social programs to which money comes from the sealing of the tax system, creating and spreading maximum social expenditure in our country. So, Mr President, first of all, a little bit of hitting the chest, a little as Members and Senators to account for their own large handfuls of privileges, a little honesty towards the citizens and a little more work involved in preparing better billings. [[And a little more serious.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u251	Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a second term in the Seym, and I must say that for the first time I met with something that is not said about the project, and it is said about some clichés, appealing to the nation, it is not really known what. And so, before I proceed to the substantive assessment of this project, I would like to tell you here that I have not used the hotel for six years on behalf of the Sejm, and I have not flown a plane to the Sejm, and I do not drive Pendolino to Lublin. And therefore, this massive attack and the appeal to the nation are simply inappropriate, to say the most delicately. Now, as far as the project is concerned, it actually introduces a tax-free amount of PLN 30 451. It is a relatively high amount, but here are the arguments of the applicants that this amount is used by parliamentarians in their parliamentary diets. I note, therefore, what was already said today, that this amount applies not only to parliamentarians, because it is PLN 2280 per month, but also to diets that are available to many Poles... [[Every citizen.]] ...with different social functions. And now it is, if... We're not gonna hurt them by raising the amount of free money... [[But the regular employees, too.]] ...from tax to $30,000, but my buddy's gone overboard because it's $30,000. the tax-free amount for the Member will be doubled: on a diet of 30 000. and on remuneration also 30 thousand. In this way, you give parliamentarians a tax-free amount of over 60,000. zł. These are facts. What else do I want to say? Indeed, this is an excess amount. Projects that are in parliament, and I know, because there is also a project of the Polish People's Party taking for real the tax-free amount of 8 thousand. zł, requested, so taking into account the low level of existence... I am convinced that sooner or later we will return to this proposal, because it is already an offer of all the parliamentary clubs, including the promises of Law and Justice, and charging and exposing the great wealth of parliamentarians is, to say the least, inappropriate. Last year we adopted a very diverse, complicated tax scale. She's not simplifying the law. There are four tax thresholds. It's nice on this project because there's only two. I must say that this solution may be appealing because it actually simplifies, it is simple, transparent, only the amount is inadequate. And now what is causing huge controversy is also what you plan to cover the loss in the public finance sector of PLN 50 billion, including PLN 25 billion, is the loss of resources of local government units, so pointing out that we can do this through the National Health Fund resources, reducing resources in this fund, is, I would say, frivolous, and is even a mockery when we have these queues when there are such needs in health care. The same is true of the Labour Fund. In conclusion, it is really difficult to discuss this project in substance. I don't think the applicants cared about it, because he wasn't talking about the project, either, but he was doing some kind of round politics. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u253	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on personal income tax. The project assumes an increase to PLN 5481,18 of the amount reducing the tax in the first tax scale, corresponding to a tax-free amount of PLN 30,451 per year, and a reduction in the limit of the contribution to health insurance to be deducted from the amount of income tax payable by the taxpayer. The draft law created by Kukiz15 is designed in theory to put up with social injustice and equalise the situation with regard to income tax taxation of all taxpayers. The solutions proposed in the bill are excellent for taxpayers, but deadly for the public finance system and our state. Of course, it is my dream, but I believe that Mr Morawiecki's dream is also as much a tax-free amount as possible. Unfortunately, we're incarcerated in reality and we're looking at it rationally. It must be said out loud that the amount of PLN 30 451 proposed for all citizens is utopian. I am wholeheartedly in favour of eliminating social inequalities and smaller commitments to the least earners, but this must be a gradual and rational process. This is what the finance minister Mateusz Morawiecki proposes, which will increase the amount free in 2018 to an amount of 8 000. zł and will not raise any taxes for Poles. The proposed project lacks solutions that would compensate local governments for lower income tax revenues, there is no compensation for the National Health Fund resulting from a reduction in the amount of health insurance contributions. In my opinion, Kukiz15 has created a project that is impossible to implement, and what is more, it can cause a very serious disturbance in public finances. In the opinion of the National Bank of Poland, the level of losses incurred by the State as a result of the implementation of this parliamentary proposal will exceed 2% GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, 2%. GDP is what Poland will spend on defence in 2018. Such a large amount can also lead in Poland to a deficit of more than 3% GDP and breaches of a stabilising expenditure rule. This project may also increase the debt-to-GDP ratio, which will allow Poland to exceed the 55% threshold set in the Public Finance Act. It seems to me that there is no need for more arguments and reasons for everyone to know and understand that the project is a threat to public finances, and for the sake of the good of Poland it should not be further processed. Circle of Free and Solidarni requests that the bill be rejected and that it not be sent to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u255	Thank you very much. We move on to questions, but first I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are... [[They're listening.]] ... young students from the 2nd High School of General Education in Tarnów and the Economic and Gastronomy School Complex. We greet the young people warmly, [[Applause]] Mr Cymanski even standing up. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of you like to join the questions? You're welcome. In that case, I'm closing the list if everyone wants to sign up. You're an MP. Good. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u256	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Is the amount by which revenue will decrease to the state budget on a yearly basis in the event of the introduction of a tax-free amount of PLN 30,451 for all taxpayers of personal income tax? Is the amount by which the revenue of local government units will decrease annually in the event of an increase in the tax-free amount up to that amount where local government units participate in the distribution of the funds that affect the State budget in respect of personal income tax? How do applicants propose to compensate for the losses of local government units resulting from the implementation of the solutions described in this Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u257	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that the proposed project, which we are debating today, carries very large losses in the revenue of the state budget, because together with local government units it is 50 billion PLN. One of the proposals to cover this loss is the transfer of PLN 12 billion from the Labour Fund. I wanted to ask if the designers, the applicants of this project know that the Labour Fund is created from contributions from enterprises with a specific purpose of these funds, among others. on forms of activation of employment, on the elimination of unemployment. I agree that the unemployment rate is decreasing and there is no such demand, but there are certain preferences in this fund. So I ask the projectors how they imagine that these funds will be transferred for purposes that are not compatible with those adopted by the Labour Fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u259	Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. Is it true that this is a project that is intended to be addressed to committee work, and will therefore be open to discussion? This is something to lean on, or to certainly reject it immediately at first reading, Mr President. The second point: Is it true that, in general, the current Chamber is afraid to talk about pro-Citizen projects? Another point, I have heard from the honourable Member, is that it is about the benefits of Members of the Civil Movement, but there is one thing: You can't see the beam in your eye, and you can see the blade in our eye. Donations. One word, that's enough. [[That blade is 60,000.]] And it is not to be condemned for the work of the Messenger, for God's sake! Here's another thing. Here I heard from the MP's mouth a yearning. And I have great sympathy for you, you know that. [[Nice to meet you, too.]] You're also an excellent performer. In view of your longing for the old times, I will quote: The old life has gone far, tonight for the winter, a warm scarf. Only horses, only horses, only horses regret. Thank you. [[Speaking of which, what were those horses?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u261	Mr Sławomir Nitras, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u262	You can talk about Mr Kukiz's proposals, about their cheap populism. I'll just say, Mr Andruszkiewicz, if I haven't mistaken my name, I've read how much he spent on hotels. I have been a Member since 2005 and answer invitations, drive, meet people, spend money like this young man in a year on hotels. Gentlemen, start with each other, you have to save money. Now I'm serious about the project. Mrs Mirror caught me. I'm still a relatively young man, my constituents are people who make 2,000, 3,000, often my mother makes 2,000. And father 2,000. I wanted to ask the Minister because you are so happy to laugh, Mr PiS Minister of Finance, that Kukiz presented an irrational idea - indeed, a sick idea how to take 20 billion from health care and not make up for this loss - what you did for those people who make 2,000. zł, 3000. Evil? [[What about ……]] Did they change the amount free? Mrs. Mirror, by defending you, said Mr. Morawiecki had reduced the amount. The Morawiecki project - someone who earned 700 zlotys a month, how many people there are that earn 700, reduced by 2 zlotys. Two zlotys. What are you bragging about? This is a reduction in the amount of free money? You promised 8,000. You can talk about rational projects, and you threw our project in the basket at first reading. My question is very specific. You promised 8,000. It was unrealistic, but what you did for the people who built the state budget by making 2,000. monthly, 3,000. A month, maybe 4,000. A month? How much did you reduce their free amount? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll say zero. And you, Minister, answer me why. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u263	Mr Jacek Tomczak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at first reading, we are discussing the draft law by Mr Kukiz on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act. In the explanatory memorandum of the applicant's proposal, indicating the sources of coverage due to the possible adoption of the State budget loss law, they stated, inter alia, that the missing 19 million would come from the sealing of the VAT and CIT collection system and the increase in the VAT base linked to the increase in consumption. That sounds pretty enigmatic and very little specific. Do applicants have any calculations in this respect Or can they make it concrete? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u265	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Suchon, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, when it comes to grossing up Members' salaries, it is clear that we absolutely support that. As far as the free amount is concerned, we believe that this should be as uniform as possible. On the other hand, I have a very practical question for you. Mr Mathematics, sir. You'll get $2,000. after these provisions have been amended. If you get $2,000. PLN salary, 2 000. zł diet, and the citizen will receive 2 000. zł salary, then how much will you receive tax-free money? As much as a citizen or twice as much? Twice as much. It's ruthless. Your project concerns remuneration, which means twice you increase it, you maintain this difference. That is not enough. Members will have 60,000. the amount of tax-free. That's not fair. It's just not fair. You shouldn't have submitted such projects. [[Contrary to intent.]] The increase in consumption by PLN 19 billion. I would like you to explain why this increase in consumption is happening, because I do not see it. From this project, also because of the change of this tax-free amount, this does not result in a simple way, so that why such calculations? What about expenditure on the Labour Fund? There are resources for training, internships for doctors, nurses, midwives. What about these internships? Who's gonna pay for this? Who's gonna pay for these internships? I ask you to answer that question. What about a little health check? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The State proposes to reduce the tax write-off. In this case, how will the deficits be covered when it comes to health expenditure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u267	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u268	In defence, not even the good name of Members and Senators, but the truth about us I have a question for the Minister, because this has drawn attention - indeed it is unique - that this law we have introduced, people earning more than 127 thousand. zł deprives the parole. They're losing it. Question: "What is the percentage of taxpayers... [[And others don't. 99% doesn't gain anything.]] Of course. I'm just saying, the conclusion is very important. I'm almost done. Namely, most taxpayers account for a spouse or a child, so it takes 250,000 to lose that amount individually. Question: "Are there Members and Senators in this group?" And the second question - I will still be able - namely, the question related to the fact that there is also a certain privilege in Poland, a very interesting solution - it has already appeared in discussions on serious tax issues - that there is a exemption from social security contributions when the average national income for the previous year exceeds thirty times. I remember a time when the 13ths were here, and we as Members of the Autumn were crossing that threshold. In this group, this is probably a group of over 400,000. the best earning Poles, do senators and Members fit in? It's worth telling the public this truth because there are legends about us. I'm really sorry none of you guys have defended each other like that, because it's not that, it's not comfort, I can pay... [[But we knew the PiS would do better.]] No, but, my dear friend, so to speak, even from the Platform, let's say to ourselves, it's about the truth being known. Why do people have to look at us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For an Arab sheikh? That's not true. [[Applause]] [[But tell me 99% doesn't get anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u269	Mr. Zbigniew Konwiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was talking about it during the performance. Many times in the election campaign, PiS politicians had a tax-free amount of 8,000. zł. This was mentioned by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, then Mr Andrzej Duda's presidential candidate. Like your future prime minister, among others. she claimed, she wants to keep more money in the wallets of Poles, thus, among others. the idea of raising the tax-free amount to 8 000. zł. Just a week before the election Andrzej Duda said that in his opinion the amount free should start at 8,000. zł and then gradually grow in the years to come. Just a week before the election. The elections were held on 25 October 2015. What's changed since then? Because in November 2015, the President's proposal appears in this area and is in the Committee on Public Finance. I would like to know the government's position towards this project, which is identical to the announcements of the PiS from the election campaign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u271	Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome. [[They're gonna improve the Roman amendment on the president's proposal and it's gonna be okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the applicant: Is it true that, according to the Constitution, everyone is equal to the law? Is it true that we as politicians have 10 times the tax-free amount? Is it true that despite the changes in this bill since January this year for people who have been earning since 11,000. to 85 thousand, which is the largest group of citizens, nothing has changed and this amount remained at the level of PLN 3091? In the end, is it true that we are the law and provision that the modern Member has said that we are also raising this amount for politicians to 60,000. zł, can we change it in this House if it is necessary? After all, is it true that, according to the legislation, a Member does not have to have a car to use a kilometer? Is it possible to use... [[Ha, ha, ha. It hurts.]] ...from a borrowed vehicle, and the hysterical texts delivered by the opposition are only very populist? Finally, is it possible to suppose that a Member who does not use travels and hotels - or is it possible to think so - shows low parliamentary and social activity? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u273	Thank you. Anyone else? Everyone, I guess. [[You guys are young, and you're so cynical.]] [[Voice from the room: We learned from older colleagues.]] [[I would've even given him the hotels so he wouldn't talk that stupid.]] Thank you. Since the list of persons enrolled has been exhausted, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr.Paweł Gruza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We got the Kukiz15 project for evaluation. We made the first attempt to calculate its budgetary impact. They came out at the level of 71 billion zlotys, which... [[How many, I'm sorry?]] 71 billion PLN. I'm talking out loud, I'm just... [[Maybe more clearly. Microphones don't collect very well.]] ...these microphones are very low. Yeah, yeah. I've asked our officials to continue to deny government positions in this area. Out of respect for their work and the cost of their work and in the spirit of responsibility for public finances, I asked them not to engage their time in a project that leads to the destruction of public finances and makes no sense or dimension at this point. Of course, the tax-free amount that we currently have in the legislation is not satisfactory and it is not a realization of either dreams or political promises. Nevertheless, I would like to say that today, in the government, proposals will be made to increase this amount free to 8 000. zł and soon such proposals, together with the revision of these further tax thresholds, will be presented together with calculations. [[Minister, how much is your PIT income?]] I believe that these proposals, which are soon to be put forward by the government, are rational, are to be implemented, also in the context of the progressive sealing of the tax system, which has an effect and gives room for such privileges. Therefore, the position of at least the Ministry is such that the project is internally contradictory because it does not eliminate differences in the tax privileges of Members, Senators and Taxpayers, and is extremely destructive to public finances. We call for our comments to be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, Minister, one question. You say 70 billion and PIT is 40 billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u275	But, Mr... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: We're talking about local governments and the National Health Fund. [[Applause]] Mr Jakub Kulesza, representative of the applicants, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, you're right, I can't convince anyone in this empty room. I'm very sorry about that. [[Empty is your head, not the room.]] But I didn't expect such an attack, full of lies and misunderstandings. I would really like to appeal to you, particularly to Members of the PSL, the Modern and the Platform, to read the project again, only this time with understanding. I understand that the tax system is complicated... [[Did you hear what I said?]] ...especially taxing work, but see, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We don't want to take anything out of the fund there, NFZ. The contribution is 9% And we don't change that. See well what it says, and then comment on or refer to it, because those words that fell down here are just a lie, and maybe not a lie, but more about misunderstanding of the subject. [[He doesn't know. He's not lying.]] You said here that you've been in Parliament for 20 years. We are talking about something that is already a symbol of this Parliament, essentially a symbol of hypocrisy and unfulfilled electoral promises. That's, among other things. people like you are responsible for the fact that, for 10 years, the tax-free amount has fallen, in fact, rather than increased. As the Minister says that the project will ruin the state budget, I would like to say that such a grossly low tax-free amount for several years has led to the ruin of the household budget of many citizens. We have been accused of low-cost populism, and I also wanted to refer to it. I really prefer cheap populism to your expensive lies we've been hearing for so many years... [[But you have to answer questions.]] ...the expensive lies about how you're going to raise your tax-free amount. And the Civic Platform lied, and Law and Justice lied. Not one side or the other did it. Oh, and yet you regretted the loss in the state budget. It so happens that all our projects, which were really meant to increase expenditure in the state budget, were rejected at first reading, even if the project, the previous project, was about taxing Members' allowances. That would really increase the state budget. Why did you reject this project? I do not regret all these privileges. I didn't say that. Really, use it. I was just saying that you already have these costs reimbursed and that the Members' diet is not a reimbursement of costs, because it is other privileges that the State has. I am struck by the fact that the non-taxation of the parliamentary diet - and only the parliamentary diet, because our project assumed taxation only of the parliamentary diet, not of the local government, not of others - makes the state really have 10 times more tax-free money. It's all about honesty. Hypocritical and unfulfilled promises. This tax-free amount is going to be this... [[Do you answer Members' questions?]] I answer, but it is difficult to answer the questions of Members who did not understand the project... [[But try it.]] ...they're talking about an NFZ budget that we're not moving at all. So that I really encourage you to think more about citizens and less about your own money. We would not have submitted this project in one case: if you had actually agreed to the taxation of Members' allowances. [[This is total populism.]] Okay, I get it, there's no money in the budget, evenly, let's put together, let's have equal rights. [[Applause]] Because it's not about the money. This is about justice. There's so much talk about extraordinary castes. You are just this extraordinary caste, and today you have proved this very clearly, in this way attacking our project, and in fact attacking our argument and defending your privileges. Let's stop with the extraordinary castes. [[But that's not true.]] Let us introduce a fair parliament, increase the tax-free amount or even our tax-free amount. [[There's the Internet and you can check everything...]] Anything can be checked. [[...and expose who's right.]] It is I who invite all citizens to look at the Sejm website, read the justification of the project and read that there is nothing there about taking from the NFZ. There is only a proposal to reduce the deduction from PIT. [[What does that mean? What does that mean?]] That means the contribution to the NFZ is 9%. And it's gonna go out. Thank you very much. And I ask you to correct the Members who did not understand the project and to read it again and understand it. [[Who's gonna pay?]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, corrigendum, correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u277	Mr Suchoń as corrected? Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! [[What does a 5% reduction mean?]] Page 7 of your justification: In order to cover the loss on the part of the public finance sector, the applicant proposes to reduce the income tax deduction of the contribution paid to the NFZ from 7,75% Not 9, not 9... [[Up to five.]] ...only 7.75. You don't have basic information about... [[From the civic part.]] ...public finances. I read further: reducing the contribution base to 5% of the size base, resulting in an additional 19 billion on the part of the public finance sector. If this is not a reduction in the contribution paid, then what is it? [[You don't understand... it's the complicated tax system. I'll explain.]] [[Then explain it.]] On the NFZ? You're welcome, sir. If the reduction from 7.5, from 7.75 to 5 is not a reduction, then please... [[I'll explain it to you after the meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u279	But, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u280	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u281	Mr Cymanski. Now you are straightening Mr Nitras, please. [[Mr. Marshal, this is so important.]] I know, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u282	Thank you. I wouldn't have gotten into any kind of argument with Mr. Kulesza, who either doesn't know he's gonna hurt his grandmother and his grandfather... I mean, if your proposals were voted out, no Polish pensioner would get to the hospital. And I'm screaming here because there are limits to irresponsibleness. Irresponsible. And it's too serious to treat it that way. I understand young age, I understand temperament. I've been through it, too. I've been through it, too. But there are serious things that need to be talked about. But the fact that this young man comes in here and tells these things... In good faith. He just doesn't know certain things yet. He'll learn. It's only a matter of time before we give him a chance. [[Applause]] It's the system's fault because nothing changes. I mean, you promised people who didn't make enough money and 2,000. It's not much, we're going to lower the amount free, because they keep the budget de facto, and you haven't made a fair offer, a proposal for these people. You didn't tell me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's your fault. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, one more sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u283	Thank you. No, sir. You've already run out of time. I, of course, gave the floor in a corrective manner, and it was used to make statements. On the other hand, I will also allow myself, at the end of this discussion, to share with the High House, with you such a remark that I have also been a Member for several years and always over these years, despite very intense political disputes on the occasion of financial and budgetary laws, these discussions have been characterised by considerable material saturation. There was a lot about numbers, arguments, and there was very little demagogy. Allow me, sir, to point out that the level of demagogy in your argument has exceeded all possible sizes. I remain only in hope - and I agree with Mr Cymanski - that there will be less decaling of the nest in which you sit thanks to the votes of the Polish voters. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017 (prints Nos 1777 and 1843). I ask Mr Wojciech Wolf to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to present a report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017, print No 1777. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading on 25 July 2017. The first reading of the project took place on 27 September 2017. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, following an examination of the project at the committee's meeting, request that the High Sejm adopt draft legislation on printing No 1777 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mr. Piotr Pole to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u286	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017, prints No 1777 and 1843. The agreement we are talking about binds the institutions of the Union and the Member States and forms an integral part of the EU legal order. The subject is very important and important, because the transfer and reception of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of countries is necessary to agree, for example, on the current situation relating to immigrants or refugees. This protocol guarantees and ensures good and effective cooperation between both countries in the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal migration. The work of Poland and Ukraine on this draft protocol and the findings lasted exceptionally long, because almost 10 years. However, the most important thing is that all the ambiguities in the consultation were agreed, which resulted in the signing of the protocol in April this year. The entry into force of this protocol will rationalise and reduce the costs associated with the stay of illegal aliens in special centres. This document is expected, especially by the Border Guard authorities. The conclusion of the protocol will not result in additional costs as well as a reduction of revenue to the state budget, but will also contribute to the deepening of cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Ukraine. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u287	Thank you, sir. Mr Norbert Obricki, please take the floor. Oh, sorry, Mr Norbert Obricki made a written statement on behalf of the club. This is Mr Bartosz Jóźwik... Jozwiak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. This bill agrees to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine. The Agreement concerned shall bind the European Union and its Member States as part of the Union's legal order. It contains e.g. standardise the technical elements related to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of both countries, and its approval will ensure effective cooperation between our countries within the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal migration, which today seems to be a very important element. The protocol sets out, inter alia, the competent authorities to implement the agreement, the border crossing points at which the transit of the readmitted persons will take place, the language of the consultation and such matters. Its adoption should result in closer cooperation between the two countries in the area of legal order protection and prevention and fight against illegal migration. It is a project which is really a necessary element to comply with European Union legislation and international law, which will work between Poland and Ukraine. For these reasons, Kukiz15 declares its support for the project in question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u289	Thank you very much. And Mr Marek Owa, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present our club's position on the report of the committee on the governmental bill on ratification of the implementing protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Act authorises, agrees to the ratification of the implementing protocol by the President of the Republic of Poland. The issue of cooperation with the Ukrainian party in the area of readmission has so far been regulated in the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Ukraine on the transfer and admission of persons through the common state border, drawn up in Kiev on 24 May 1993. In view of the fact that the Protocol is an implementing act for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the Agreement, it should be considered that it takes precedence over the provisions of the 1993 Agreement. In particular, the Protocol sets out the competent authorities entrusted with the task of implementing the Agreement, the border crossing points at which the transfer and transit of readmitted persons will be carried out, and identifies the types of measures used by the parties to send requests and answers, the conditions for the return of persons under escort, the language of communication and consultation and the possibility of working meetings and consultations. The entry into force of the Protocol will not have any negative political impact on both countries, it will also contribute to deepening cooperation between Poland and Ukraine in the area of the broader protection of legal and public order, as well as to increasing the effectiveness of cooperation between the two countries in the field of preventing and combating illegal migration. The Modern Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u291	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u292	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The conclusion of this protocol will ensure effective cooperation between the two states in the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal migration. In view of the nature and scope of the Protocol, the additional provisions only concern the implementation of readmission and regulate matters which are not covered by the agreement or to which a Member State is not obliged under the agreement. Both the Polish and Ukrainian parties submitted proposals for changes and additions through diplomatic notes from 2008 to 2009. Additional negotiations and arrangements continued until 2016, resulting in the signing of the Protocol in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. The Implementing Protocol sets out the competent authorities responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement and entitled to cooperate directly. On behalf of the Republic of Poland, the commander of the Main Border Guard was authorised. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine pointed to cooperation with the Polish side of the State Migration Service of Ukraine and the administration of the State Border Service of Ukraine. The Protocol sets out the submission and processing of applications for readmission of own nationals, third-country nationals and stateless persons. The Parties have detailed and listed 11 on the Polish side and five on the Ukrainian side the competent authorities responsible for submitting and examining readmission applications in an accelerated procedure. The eight border crossing points to be used for readmission and transit are indicated in detail, reserving the possibility of possible changes to the list of border crossing points, which is to be agreed by the States Parties in any case. Art. 3 and 4 specify how to apply for readmission, as well as additional measures and documents. The content of the article deserves attention. 6 detailing the confirmation of the transfer of the person. The parties to the agreement on each specific case, including the escort of persons, will inform each individual. Art. 12 treats the official languages in direct communication between the authorities of the parties and in consultation. This means that these are Polish and Ukrainian languages. High Seym! The Polish People's Party does not object to the draft law and will vote in favour of the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u293	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u294	Thank you, Marshal. Circle of the European Union of Democrats, which I have the honour to represent in this debate, is strongly in favour of the adoption by the Sejm as soon as possible, i.e. in tomorrow's vote, of the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007. This Protocol was signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. There are three reasons why we are strong supporters of this law. Firstly, it is obvious that the Republic of Poland should be with neighbouring countries, and Ukraine is the largest, most populous, most numerous neighbour of the Republic of Poland, not counting the autonomous part of the Kaliningrad region of the Russian Federation... It is clear that we should have an agreement with our neighbours that is up-to-date, precise, accepted by both parties, which would regulate the issue of the return of citizens who have found themselves on both sides of the border in an illegal manner, whether they are nationals of the Ukrainian Republic who are illegally staying in Poland or are illegal immigrants who have entered the territory of the Republic of Ukraine and are not citizens of Ukraine or are indeed stateless persons who have also arrived illegally in Poland. Of course, it also works the other way, i.e. in relation to Polish citizens going from Poland to Ukraine in an illegal way. The second reason why we are in favour of ratifying this protocol is because the contacts between citizens are increasing and not just between the institutions and policies of both countries are getting closer. More and more Ukrainian workers, more and more Ukrainians, students, families of workers or students are staying in the territory of the Republic of Poland, so such an agreement is simply necessary to ensure that the process, which we believe is as positive as possible. In any case, the Polish economy on the work of Ukrainians gains. And there is a third reason why we believe that this protocol should be adopted. Well, in a much more secure way, this protocol provides this path of Ukraine's association with the European Union. We are de facto signing a protocol to an agreement that was concluded between Ukraine and the European Communities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The purpose of this agreement is the association of our eastern neighbour with the European Communities, and perhaps once a full membership of Ukraine in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u295	Thank you. Since there are no questions, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jack Chaputowicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The course of discussion and the position of the clubs shows that this law, as little in this House, is gaining cross-party support. The government certainly sees that there is a consensus about our country's policy towards Ukraine, our important neighbour. There were no specific questions, and therefore I will no longer take time from ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u297	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thank all parliamentary clubs for such a consistent approach when it comes to the adoption of this bill. I am convinced that this is an important bill. I am also convinced that this will serve to extend good Polish-Ukrainian relations and that this law will serve both the Polish and Ukrainian sides well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u299	Thank you. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u300	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the position of the club as regards the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, drawn up in Luxembourg on 18 June 2007, signed in Warsaw on 24 April 2017. Ukrainian citizens are the largest national group of people coming to Poland for economic, commercial and other purposes. Polish consulates in Ukraine spent almost 950 thousand last year. visas. Careful estimates are about the amount of PLN 8 billion that they earn in Poland, often doing works that Polish citizens do not want to do. In Poland, he studies more than 20,000. students from Ukraine. Since 11 June 2017, Ukrainian citizens may reside in Poland without a visa requirement, but stay may not last more than 90 days during any 180-day period. This Protocol sets out the technical elements relating to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of both countries, which are less and less in line with previous legal arrangements. The Protocol shall ensure effective cooperation between the two countries within the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal migration. According to Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Agreement, the Republic of Poland as an EU Member State shall be entitled to conclude with Ukraine an implementing protocol to the readmission agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, and the practical implementation of the Agreement shall be governed by the matters referred to in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 contract. The issue of cooperation with the Ukrainian party in the implementation of readmission has so far been regulated in the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Ukraine on the transfer and acceptance of persons through the common state border, drawn up in Kiev on 24 May 1993. The entry into force of the Protocol will have no negative political impact on relations between the two countries and will contribute to the deepening of cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Ukraine in the field of protection of the wider legal order. The PO Club will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u301	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 19 and 20 of the agenda: 19. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax (print No 1790). 20. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax (print No 1800). I ask Mr Stanisław Tyszka to present the justification for the bill contained in print 1790. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not take much time, as this is the next stage of the discussion on the withdrawal of the so-called. Tusk's tax, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, was to reduce the flat-rate cost of obtaining revenue for the creators. It is an anti-innovation tax, anti-freedom tax, which is very damaging to Poland, pushing to emigration or to the grey zone often very outstanding creators, inventors, scientists, computer scientists, architects, graphic designers, journalists, actors, artists. If the Government of Law and Justice aims to increase the innovation of the Polish economy or promote Polish culture, it should immediately withdraw this tax of Tusk. Besides, the government, that is, Law and Justice, announced that this tax would be revoked. Unfortunately, it's been two years and nothing has happened. I presented the exact same project on June 21st this year. On 22 June he was rejected at first reading by the votes of the Members of Law and Justice, but on 1 July the President of the governing party Jarosław Kaczyński appeared in Przydrye and announced that the government would implement this request. In this connection, the intention to re-submit this project was to put pressure on the behalf of the Polish creators' communities on the government to fulfil his own promise and to withdraw this anti-innovative tax. I'm not gonna bring up history anymore. It's been since 1928, communism has survived. This concept was created on the basis of the column of Tadeusz Boy-Żelenski. One can only wonder if Boy's current discriminatory taxation would have written such a column for the second time. There are often voices that this is a privilege. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a privilege. This is a regulation that results from the nature of creative work. It has a deep justification on the basis of the principle of equality before the law. A novelty in today's debate is that the Civic Platform project has also emerged. There is an element of hypocrisy in this, because the Civic Platform is responsible for introducing this tax as of 1 January 2013, but it is good that it now sprinkles its head with ashes, apologies. I've read my reasons. Please compare the reasons for the Kukiz15 project and the Civic Platform. It's just a gap when it comes to some kind of legislative quality. On the other hand, in the Civic Platform project there is such justification that we had a financial crisis, and therefore it was necessary to draw PLN 100 million out of the creators' pockets. This is total nonsense. Okay, well, I'm glad that the Platform, being in opposition, is starting to represent citizens' interests again. Now I will talk about costs, because President Jarosław Kaczyński was gracious to refer to this, he said that 100 million PLN, which we present, is not true. I would very much like to know from a representative of the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, it counted, counted, couldn't count. There are some, apparently, pushes with the Ministry of Culture, which is more likely to make such a regulation. The platform saved 200 million PLN. We were simply based on the additional revenue of the budget following the introduction of these provisions. Well, 100 million zlotys is really not a big sum. This is as much as the Treasury companies were forced to transfer to the Polish National Foundation. I really don't say it maliciously here. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Polish National Foundation was to promote the Polish brand abroad, Kukiz15 approaches Poland's promotion completely differently. Poland is to promote products of its genius Polish creators, inventors, IT engineers, artists. At this point, giving them this opportunity by not punishing them for what they do, Tusk's tax is something that can result in the promotion of Poland in the world, not the throwing away of taxpayers' money on some billboards or stupid TV clips. Oh, Law and Justice will reject this project again at first reading, and we will put it to work because it is our duty to our constituents. We hope that we will finally force the government to withdraw Tusk's tax and restore unlimited costs to the creators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u303	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to provide the justification for the bill in print 1800.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since I am not Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, I am not going to talk about the intellectual divides between the justifications of individual Members and clubs, I may not say half the things that Marshal Tyszka said here - Mr Tyszka, here in this role - even if I were him, I would not speak with such contempt about the tax of Tusk if in the government Tusk was advised by Minister Tusk and money was taken. But that's it off the record. The Civic Platform, presenting at the moment a project to return to 50% of the cost of obtaining revenue by creators and inventors, innovators, draws very simple conclusions from what we have been hearing from the current finance minister, deputy prime minister Morawiecki, for a few months now, that the budget is suffering, for moments I have the impression that there is too much money and not lack of it. So that we also look closely at the policies of such quite creative, I would say, allocation or distribution of money to different environments. In a word, we really do not see any reason to maintain longer this absolutely temporary and crisis solution that we were forced to introduce in 2012 so that it was in force since 2013. Perhaps for Mr Tyszka, the crisis was some fiction, I do not know, perhaps he did not see it, but he should know that it was a time when the Polish state and the budget of that country, and the public finances of that country were struggling to eliminate the excessive deficit procedure. The excessive deficit procedure closes the development of each society and each country. We did then, I mean we supported, but the then Ministry of Finance was indeed looking for all possibilities to increase the tax base. It wasn't a simple and easy decision. It wasn't the decision that the Civic Platform made, because she had a whim or someone to be angry with. It was a decision which, at least in the first period, cost the Civic Platform, because environments that had full right to feel safe because they had other reasons to feel safe with these governments, suddenly said: a moment. Of course, then, when this tax was reduced to half of the first tax scale - because it was obviously not a complete elimination - it worked, over time it turned out that it might not be that severe. That's why the bills are here. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance - at least when I asked - today claims that it was perhaps a hundred million zlotys. When this solution was introduced, it was hoped that it would be about PLN 200 million. It is very difficult for me to judge precisely, but there is no doubt whether it is going to be 100 million or 200 million, that it is a burden that the current budget can probably bear without any obstacles. This is at least the result of official communications from the Ministry of Finance. Other arguments... I don't have an insight into the real documentation at the moment, but judging by the policies that the Ministry of Finance and the government are doing, I have the right to assume that this is not really a damage. And if we're talking about whether it's a necessity or a privilege, then, of course, on the scale of the entire tax system, this can be considered a kind of privilege. Notabene is coming in October, so tax discussions will be on fire in the High House. It was also mentioned here about privileges and it was the Kukiz15 club that thundered at all the possible privileges that they are, but that's not the point. It's not necessarily a privilege. This is a consequence of this mode of work, of the costs that the creator bears, of the inventor I will no longer tell, and of the unsystematicity of income. It's clear. Therefore, when introducing this rule, we had the greatest resistance from the film community, because it is clear. The director doesn't make two movies a year, he doesn't even make a movie every year. He's gonna make a movie, then before he does, his income, if he's got it, he's gonna decompose for a couple of years. It was also a speech, we were thinking about a pre-war solution, where there were special accounts on which these amounts were deposited, and as if it were accounting in a different way. It was all complicated. It has been decided to do something that is still in force, and at the moment we have decided to move away from it. And to tell you the truth, when I found out that the Kukiz club 15 had submitted the project again - because I asked and encouraged notabene, I said: we report the project, it is yours, so that you report, at least it turns out that two clubs are trying as if the same - I thought the tone of today's debate would be nicer. Let's see how it ends, it starts for now, let's say, not nicely enough. But what is it that, in the end, it's about these creators, so I think that's the primary goal. There is a difference between our projects, in point 3, when we are already talking strictly about copyright and related rights. Here we are simply talking about the revenue and 50% of the cost of obtaining revenue without any sharpenings, and in the project presented first - it is after deduction of contributions. I'll tell you right away, I'll explain: the creators, and for them there's this project, they support this solution. That's why we brought it in because that's their opinion. They claim that this solution is better for them. I'm not going to get into the nuances of thinking that I know or know exactly. There'd have to be some tax-law specialists here. We rely on the opinion of the community of creators who wish for just such a solution as is proposed in print No 1800, the project of the Civic Platform Members' Club. I'm gonna say it again and I'm talking to a poorly represented law and justice club. [[There are as many of us as you from the Platform.]] There's more of us than yours, and there's less of a club. No, no, no, they're still there. [[With Mr. Marshal together.]] But that is not the point, my fellow Member. The point is, I'd rather everyone at the club hear that appeal. It was you at the beginning of this term, it was your minister of culture, also the Deputy Prime Minister, Gliński said - I have no quotes, actually a shame, but in the campaign it was said, after taking over power also - that it would be one of the first things that you will do. You were supposed to do this, so here you are - two projects on the table, I encourage you to support either or one of them, or maybe make out of two, whatever, but from 1 January 2018 you will return to 50% as regards the cost of obtaining revenue from the creator for the transfer of ownership of the invention, for the licence fee and for the exercise of rights by creators and performers. I hope that if we introduce this, there will not be any outbursts that have happened, because it was also one of the arguments for withdrawing this solution, that we will really not talk about income or income from wages, only that it will be real works contracts, authentic and that no one will double or run away from tax rules in return, because if I am working somewhere and even doing creative work, but this institution gives me the opportunity to do so and month in month I get paid, then this type of regulation is not necessary here. They are needed by musicians, composers, artists, writers, directors, freelancers, journalists who do not have a full-time job. These are creative professions, and very often in the case of these professions, jobs are more embarrassing than helping to develop. So the more they give away, the more the state should give them. Thank you and, of course, I ask you to accept these solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u305	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Barbara Bubula to speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft laws amending the Act on personal income tax, prints 1790 and 1800. The projects were submitted by the members of the Kukiz clubs respectively15 and the Civic Platform, but both concern the same case, repairing the wrong decision to take away the right to deduct 50% from the authors a few years ago the cost of obtaining revenue, regardless of the amount, of the revenue generated. This tax was called Tusk by the public opinion. It's rare for someone to go into history as the one who put on new loads in this way, so that his name is something, but you can say that after the Tusk premiere this thing has remained. Law and Justice have repeatedly advocated the restoration of this tax solution, which takes into account the specifics of artistic, creative and all such activities. Here, very often the costs of obtaining any income can be extremely high. One can say with a certain amount of metaphor that an artist or inventor pays with his entire life for works of material and intangible origin. This belongs to the specifics of such human activity. And it is known that this creative effort - this is also something to say, although we are talking about very mundane, tax issues - this is earth salt. It is very difficult to gain the basis for a decent existence for yourself and for the family, security for old age or in sickness. John Kochanowski wrote at one time: "Don't be surprised, then, that the people are crowded with gold, and the poet, vain listeners, plays behind the fence, because this is an eternal picture of the fate of the artist described by our great poet. When the risk is so great and when taking up the challenge of creative life means not a comfortable, warm job, but a leap into an unknown, well-organized state and a nation drawing on the works of a few individuals their strength of life in culture should appreciate the role of creative professions also in their tax system. The question at this point is, why are the years of the Platform's governments, Donald Tusk's governments, years of taking away this privilege from artists and scientists? It is not true that, you can say, the financial crisis is the main cause of this. That is why we need to ask ourselves why the creative spokesperson of the Platform's elites, and recognising clearly that culture is its property, only now, at the time of the rule of law and justice, there are crocodiles tearing over the tax system that harms the creators. Why not just now? Do all these actors, directors, plasticists, stage designers supporting the ever weaker hosts of total opposition not see hypocrisy and do not see any deception in the actions of their political protégés? Law and Justice take voters seriously, as reflected in another systematic and orderly fulfilment of electoral promises. We have adopted a programme to help families with children who benefit almost 4 million of the youngest citizens, and we have reduced the level of unemployment and poverty, as yet no government has, we have restored the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men. We also want to include allowances for pensioners in next year's budget, and we also build apartments in the housing system +. And all this without raising income taxes and reducing the deficit and with a record low level of unemployment. We have introduced a banking tax that has sealed the system of money flow beyond our country's borders, as well as further efforts are underway to avoid the billions of zlotys that have so far been brought out of our economy by multinationals. As I said, the actions of the Law and Justice are systematic, orderly and implemented one by one. Such a way of action is faced with increasing social support. It is good that the opposition is trying to cheer us up for faster change, but it does so when it hears the assurances from Jarosław Kaczyński this summer. So let the order and hierarchy of implementation be in line with the timetable set up and corrected by this group, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which bears the greatest responsibility for the shape of the budget and the shape of the state. [[Bravo!]] I therefore request that these two projects be rejected... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Shame. Shame, Member, shame.]] ...and the Minister who will speak in a moment will present the moment when the proposals made by you and announced by the Law and Justice will be adopted by the Sejm. [[It's so embarrassing.]] And this is going to happen - I can announce it because I spoke to the Minister - this calendar year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u307	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u308	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on draft laws amending the Personal Income Tax Act 1790 and 1800. In the first words, I would like to refer to the speech of my previous speaker, representing the governing party, because, throughout her speech, she was referring to the governments of the Civic Platform and finally did not give any reason why you would like to reject this bill right now, at first reading... [[We've got a better one.]] ...which seems absolutely illogical to us. As Mrs Katarasińska has already said, on the grounds that, when discussing our draft law, as well as the draft law of the Kukiz group15, the reason for the decision to regulate the Civic Platform was the difficult economic situation of Poland, the high budget deficit remaining at 4% PBK, while under the convergence criteria this indicator is 3% GDP. However, there is now a slightly different economic and economic situation and this is crucial. Deficit has been falling steadily since 2012, reaching 2.5% in 2015 GDP. PiS has inherited a very good economy and this very good economy needs to be exploited. If you want to make these changes, as we have already heard at the PiS Congress in Przysudze, what we have seen, what has actually happened, was announced, planned to make these changes, then what do you want to wait for? We don't understand that. There are two draft laws, and I am convinced that both the representative of the Civic Platform and the representative of the Kukiz'15 group will not mind joining these projects to discuss them in committee. We want this to come into force, and we really want to hear what is the reason why today - and I would like to point out that the year is slowly ending - these projects will be rejected. Let me just mention that there are different calculations for budget costs. According to our calculations, this is about 200 million, according to the calculations related to the Kukiz Act15 it is over 100 million. These aren't amounts you can't afford. We really see what PiS spends money on - whether it's a billboard campaign, whether it's the expenses of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister's Office for catering of 20 million zlotys, whether it's protection for the President of the Party, whether it's the security of the month in Kraków Przedmieście in the amount of 700 thousand. zł. These are the expenses you pay every day. The delay in making changes that will really make it easier for artists, creators, innovative people to spend money on so often absurd and unnecessary things just shows that you don't care about these creators, you just say that you want to help them. And I think there's an undisputed issue, and everyone agrees that it's a competition -- creators, artists, people from the innovation industry -- difficult, complicated in the tax area, and we all want to make it easier for them. So let's do it, I mean, let's do it together. We're curious when you want to come in with your project and why you don't want to accept this project so you can start making it easier for them right now. As a Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is in favour of tax liberalisation reforms and we support tax reduction, particularly of a profitable nature, and the simplification of the tax system, which is where both proposed laws are headed. Therefore, given the above, I would like to make it clear that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the projects [[♪ The bell ♪]] Set it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u309	Thank you. Mr Piotr Appeal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u310	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express some sympathy for Marta Golbik, who must defend something she has not done on her own, because she is new to the Civic Platform. [[But you don't have to.]] There is no justification and there has never been any justification for this tax change. These savings, which have caused harm to artists and creators, were absolutely so small that in no way could they affect the position or budget resilience. On the other hand, there is no justification for what PiS is doing. Why once again - and this is a terrible shame - Law and Justice despite the announcement of President Jarosław Kaczyński voting against tax reduction for artists and creators, against the normal functioning of tax life of taxpayers? That's the thing. For me, it is absolutely incomprehensible that perhaps under the cloak of introducing such a system in the future you are saying that you are rejecting the project. We're either thinking about the country, about the projects, about the rules, or we're thinking that something has to be ours, and it has to be in our own time. If you have a specific deadline, Minister, in which you wish to introduce this kind of relief, to extend this relief, then put it into this bill. There is no reason to include in the bill that it will apply, suppose, from 1 December, from 1 November, from 2 January, from any other date. Let's really not play with toys like this, it's awfully small. And the voters, and the artists will remember that for the second time you reject this, you deprive them of their right - the law which they deserve and which has been since the Second Republic. Aren't you ashamed that you're gonna push that green button for rejection again? Are you not ashamed that at first reading you reject a good project that you praise - you say you want to introduce it too? Just enter the date. If you don't think the budget can afford it from October 1st, November 1st, then enter December 1st. Let's set up a specific date, add it up, then type it into any of the laws. Let's do something for the artists. You're two years old that you've gone through, which you didn't use to bring in the natural laws for artists. So we're helping you, we're reporting a second project. Nothing? Nothing's working? Nothing's helping? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u311	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, as corrected. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I only have two words for my previous speaker because I don't need sympathy. I know the reasons for this tax, and I've always been in favour of 50% of the cost of income for artists, and I know what I'm presenting. [[That's why I feel sorry for you.]] The Marshal Tyszka behaved more decently by saying that he appreciates some changes and appreciates the ability to understand that, of course, at a given moment the group had to do it, but the fact that we are now presenting such a project is okay. [[No, no, no.]] So I really don't need expressions of compassion, and once again I stress that our entire group is behind this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u313	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I don't know where to start, because I'm damned when I hear these spells about what happened in 2013 when the Platform took the money from the artists. As director of the Polish Theatre in Wrocław, I know that when the artists were deprived of the possibility of tax write-off, it was really hot. We really lost elements of civil society back then, ladies and gentlemen. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the artists confirmed that the Platform is acting against them. That's what I thought, too. [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Fortunately, not all of us, Mr Błońska.]] Besides, this whole path of health is extremely dramatic, because at the same time the Platform granted 60 million to the Temple of Divine Providence. But more important to me is the theatre, more important are the cinemas, more important are the artists and artists, more important are the creators than the clergy, which has provided excellent funding, as we know. I wonder if, when proposing a 50% yield, you are not simply pressed by Stephen Twardoch and Andrzej Saramonowicz, who were very critical of these countries' decisions years ago. I would also like to tell you that this moment, when today we are debating money for artists, is a disgrace to the Republic of Poland, the Third Republic. This is the disgrace of the Third Republic, I'll repeat it again. Polish artists are the victims of our transformation. In many cases they are deprived of the right to pensions, grants and grants, increasingly dependent on the will of organizers or decision-makers or politicians, officials. Visual arts artists are deprived of social security, health insurance. Polish artists of the Third Republic were outlawed. Years of neglect and the treatment of culture as unnecessary needs have resulted in financial collapse of a number of institutions in which artists work or work, but also in individual dramas. Excellent artist Lech Twardowski e.g. - Excellent, showing his works, his paintings in Paris - he only pat down poverty because in one year he sells, exceeding that limit, which was set by law, and in another year he sells nothing. These are unacceptable things. Tusk's tax is something so anti-humanitarian, anti-artistic, aimed at our dignity, the dignity of the people of culture. And I would like to remind you that today we have a similar situation, only that we are dealing with a censorship office in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. It was yesterday that we learned that Minister Gliński withdrew the grant for the Festival Dialogue of 500 thousand, because the Curse was to be shown in the framework of this Festival. This is a shame, my fellow Member. It's a shame, it's unworthy of a democratic state. Prime Minister Gliński is once again breaking the constitution, once again breaking human rights, fundamental human rights. I would like to say that Polish artists are the salt of this land and they know more about reality than we, officials, Members. And understand that. Artists have always been our pride. The 100 million you've invested in a terrible foundation, an embarrassing foundation, hand it over to the artists. They represent the Republic and China and Paris and Moscow and Seoul and Tokyo. Polish artists testify about the class of Polish society, not Law and Justice, which simply robs them of money. Today is the moment when we should bring about a sponsorship bill. In France they have e.g. such a very good invention, which is that there are loans that are interest-bearing at 3% , and you can only buy works of art with this money. This is a cool solution and it's worth thinking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we really need a very important thing - a coherent system of cultural financing. And I hope it comes to that. Of course, the Modern supports the proposal of both Platform and Kukiz'15. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u315	Thank you so much for speaking. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a change in the host meeting. The next person we ask is Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me also say a few words about these parliamentary laws on amending the Income Tax Act. These two projects with the same title are basically identical. They assume to restore the flat-rate 50% cost of obtaining revenue in relation to the revenue of the creators. And as has been said, this applies to professional groups such as IT, inventors, architects, writers, actors, journalists, graphic designers and artists. These are therefore professions that are a source of innovation, and the revenue generated from such creative activities is irregular, irregular. After all, the creator, working on his work, bears both direct and indirect costs related to his work. Very often it takes a long time, and the settlement is somewhere at the end. This form of settlement - because we are talking about restoring it - has been in force since 1928 and unfortunately this was changed in 2012. It was kind of a misfire, that's what I'd call it. I was also in the Seym at the time. But, ladies and gentlemen, criticizing so much, too much, that decision, it seems to me that you seem to forget that the situation in times of crisis or exit from crisis was really very difficult. I remember that the government was very careful with the discipline of public finances, and every dollar was translated several times. In the so-called. There were no increases in the budget, no minister, no voivode received neither a raise for eight years - I am talking about facts because I lived at that time and I know what it looked like - except teachers and uniforms, only these two groups had increases. The excessive deficit rule has been strongly respected so that we do not enter into debt very strongly. So I'm saying, this very low equation is hurtful, because although I admit today after a while that the tax was wrong, it shouldn't have been, it didn't bring any revenue to the budget, but it did. And today we have such a situation that we can bring it back, as you have said here, Law and Justice do not deny it either, because this is said by Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, the financial situation is much better, so why should we keep this excessive, unfair, tax-harming tax for creators? It seems to me that it is time to simply give it up, restore this 50% flat-rate income cost, of course all the revenue generated by the creators. This return is fully justified, the financial consequences for the state budget will be lower, because two groups calculate that less than PLN 200 million, so this value is not estimated too high. Of course, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing projects to further work in Parliament. Even if the Law and Justice wants to join their project, there is nothing to prevent me from holding it a little bit, but not too long in the Committee on Public Finance, join the third project and you can debate, but I will say with some bitterness - because I have always tried to be objective in my statements in this Chamber, and I represent the whole parliamentary club, it is a common position, I think that the proof of such a position is, for example, a debate on the previous project of the Kukiza Club - that it really was a mockery of Parliament, today I am really shocked by the attitude of the Law and Justice representative, because what you have presented here, saying that this is a good proposition, but not now, because it seems to me that this is not a joke, it is a mockery of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u318	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, nothing is more proud of us, Poles, not only parliamentarians, but ordinary citizens, like the achievements of our compatriots, and these recently happen to us from time to time in sport, and that is good, and for several decades still in art. Not reaching too far with memory, I recall these touching moments when Europe, maybe the world applauded the films by Krzysztof Kieślowski, when we, Poles, were moved to see Andrzej Wajda taking Oscar for all his works, when we saw what were the reactions, even in the form of recorded reactions of the audience to such outstanding directors shown not only in Europe, not only in our civilization circle of Anglo-Saxon, European, but on distant continents, for example in China, works by Krystian Lupa, Jan Klata, Grzegorz Jarzyna or Krzysztof Warlikowski. And just as Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the creators who are close to us, mentioned before me on behalf of the club, because we both come from Wrocław, such as the painter Lech Twardowski, but also writers: Olga Tokarczuk, Jacek Dehnel or Andrzej Stasiuk. I would also mention Agnieszka Holland, which constantly retains an extraordinary position in the world of the world film, bringing pride not only to itself, but to us, Poles, Polish culture, Polish film school. So let us not look back today. There were reasons that were mentioned just now by the Member, my previous speaker, for whom cuts in 2012, 2013 were necessary and also affected people of liberal professions, including artists, including Polish artists. Today we hear from the Minister of Finance of the current government that the situation is extremely good, the budget notes surpluses and prospects for this excellent financial situation are lasting and rather will last years. In view of the above, there is no doubt that it is time to return to this good and justified - as the rapporteur, Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the nature of the creative work, the artist's work, this extraordinary or special tax credit, because despite its withdrawal, Polish culture has proved that its vital forces, its unique attractiveness and extraordinary attractiveness have not diminished. That's one thing. Secondly, we have, as we hear from government representatives, an exceptionally favourable financial situation for the budget. And thirdly, you went to the election with promises not to raise taxes and abolish some imposed. So far, not many of these promises have been fulfilled. Let me remind you: the tax-free amount, which was supposed to be 8,000. zł, has not changed significantly in the last 2 years - not in the previous 8 years, and in the last 2 years for which you are responsible. Let me remind you that the promise made in my region by the candidate for Prime Minister Ms Beata Szydło about abolishing the so-called. the KGHM fossil tax has not been respected in two years. Therefore, while on this small minimum scale keep your promise, relieve the artists, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let them function better, bring even greater success to the joy of Poles and to the pride of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan put her position in writing on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle to point 19. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the point, I will refer to Mr Mieszkowski's speech, because he once again gave us this lecture, he showed such a deity towards artists. It's just that any artist, anyone who just has a sticker: an artist, it's just... You have to kneel before him, kiss his feet and give him everything, of course. And the terrible tragedy is that Prime Minister Gliński has withdrawn the subsidies. In my opinion, artists should live from what they produce, what somebody buys. Why should Prime Minister Gliński or the government give out of my money grants for some performances that I don't even want to go to, but I think, for example. Are they insulting me? Why should my money be... This is some total Bolshevism to support... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm not talking about public television right now. I'll tell you about the TV some other time. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now I'm talking about the show. Why is my money supposed to go? Reflect, sir, because what you say here often is ridiculous. But what I'm trying to say is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u321	Mr President, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u322	Please, my fellow Member, there's no party here... Don't be biased. As for the merits of the case, ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your marshal. Yes. On the other hand, as for the substance, I think of the classic Kisiel, who said: Socialism heroically solves the problems it creates. Income tax is the problem. [[Applause]] It's an unfair, stupid tax that punishes people for their jobs, punishes people for their successes, punishes them for taking risks, postpones, so to speak, consumption, and then... What's that? The entrepreneur who invests bears the risk, takes the loans, goes into the unknown, so what? Is he worse than an artist? A shoemaker who makes good shoes is worse than an artist? Why should he be punished? There's gotta be a rule. It's gotta be our thinking. Income tax is a source of evil and should actually be abolished. In Rome, a slave... The Lord had to hold him, and yet the slave had 10%. what he worked out. And we give a ridiculous tax-free amount, tax the lowest wage. Lowest wage. We're taxing starvation pensions. It's not like you have a conscience. This country is not based on some ethical foundation. As far as income tax is concerned, the minimum remuneration should certainly be exempt from income tax. [[Applause]] We're going into some absurdity: this is what we're going to pick up, this is what we're going to pick up, this is what we're going to do, this is what we're going to do, this is what we're Of course, the idea of going back to making artists... He's not bad, but you have to remember. That everyone should have a higher tax-free amount and that everyone should have... This tax would have to be considered at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u323	Even a round of applause, Mr President, as you said he was starting with substance, you have gathered. That is the result of the above. [[I wanted to correct it.]] Correct? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u324	Mr, Mr, you know what? I feel sorry for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u325	I didn't have time to say I'd like to hear a substantive reference, too, because it was short. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There are six people on the list of Members who wish to ask a question on this point. Do any of you want to be on the list? I can't see. That's why I'm shutting her down. Questions... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Then sign up again, sir. Mr President, you are listed, but you must wait your turn. We begin with Mr Grzegorz Furgi, the Civic Platform Club. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll address Professor Bubula. Professor, your performance today... Really the best cabarets could learn that. There's no such thing as Mr. Mur or the Moral Distress Cabaret. [[Nice to meet you.]] I swear to God, how this bill would come into force and 50% of the cost of income, you would totally get it, because your entire speech... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And you'd deserve that money. Your whole speech: one band of success of the PiS government, which will happen to our fellow countrymen in a positive life. But the end of your speech comes, and you say no. That's what you should expect, because you're the ones who will tell us when this bill should come in. I am astonished to see the Minister of Finance, who is still pleased to hear that money has to be spent on artists. And you can see that gesture of non-acceptance. Minister, I'd like to see your face when Mr Morawiecki promises us nuclear submarines, the best airport. After all, you promise everything - the biggest airport, shuttles. Is that... There's billions, hundreds of billions, and there's no response. But now to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that we want to restore this tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very bad that we're playing this politically. This is where we should be together. I have one question. I miss these billing projects, and I'm going to say this from practice, a very precise catalog of professions - very precisely - so that there are no different... [[No, absolutely not.]] ...I'd say tax evasion and not packing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u327	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u328	...I know this from practice, in very different interpretations of tax offices that existed. I'd think about that very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u329	Thank you very much. The next question is Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u330	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, was impressed by the speech made by the Member, because we are all aware that these flat-rate, 50% costs of earning revenue for creators need to be introduced. From this she started, and later informed about many successes of the government and the happiness that PiS is funding to Poles. I would just like to say for the honourable Member that he has also paid a bank tax, an increase in the rate of VAT from 22% to 23%, water taxes, fuel taxes - ah, you have withdrawn from the fuel tax, the only success, of course, under the influence of the public. [[Wrong, it was a mistake.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have a question for you about the actual costs of a possible change in the flat-rate cost of obtaining revenue for the creators, because we were talking about 200 million, 100 million. Here it is really difficult to explain the government of the Civic Platform, because 100 million or 200 million really did not significantly affect the fight against overcoming the deficit of the state budget. But, Minister, if you don't know, don't tell me, because at the last act, you estimated its effects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for PLN 71 billion, when all income tax revenues are annual, that is 89 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u331	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Someone just said: Why should Prime Minister Gliński decide to award the money? I agree: Why should Prime Minister Gliński decide what is right and what is wrong? Why is Prime Minister Gliński ideologizing this sphere of culture? It's not like he's doing it. Prime Minister Gliński is from creating the right conditions for this culture to create itself. On the other hand, Prime Minister Gliński ideologizes the sphere of culture and in a moments, in order to perform in the theatre to create culture, we will need to bring a confession card. That's not the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am appalled by what I have just heard from the majority. Member, I don't think this is the place. If you evaluate the project in such a way that if it is not a project prepared and notified by the majority, it must be rejected and accepted only those which are notified by the majority, then this is not the place, ladies and gentlemen. This isn't kindergarten. If someone brings a project here, then the High House owes him proper treatment, consideration of this project and a substantive approach, not such: oh, this is not our project, then... [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] This isn't the place. Minister, a simple question: Is the draft amending rates in this area on the list of government legislative work this year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The elimination of this relief was a mistake, but the most important thing is that it is worth to finally withdraw from the error and you have to move forward. It seems that the losses in the revenue of the state budget to which the creators had to be exposed, eliminating this, while increasing the revenue to the budget, were not worth the operation. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister: Is this budget really going to collapse after this 50% relief has been brought back? Is he gonna start shaking his jobs? And what do you think, if it's gonna be a great project, but it's gonna be written by, I don't know, Platforms, Kukiza or Modern, or PSL, is it really worth rejecting? Are you really not able to lean over it and convince partners from most of the governing that it is worth talking about? It seems that the level of public debate would be much higher, the level of debate here, in the Seym, too. Maybe that'll help us put in some better solutions. Because if it's going to end like this, then I'll definitely agree with my friend Mirk - otherwise this is kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u335	Thank you very much. In addition to the speech by Mr Mirosław Suchuni: Minister, the Member requests a written reply. Now I ask you to ask Adam Oldakowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The PiS government has been running a pro-family budget from the beginning, pro-development, e.g. 500+, Living+, free medicines for seniors [[Joy in the Chamber]] and the sports program of the club, and the PO for 8 years, two terms, instead of sealing... [[Voice from the room: Nuclear power plants.]] ...close the tax system... [[Voice from the room: Submarine.]] ...started to burden the creators, wait, artists and artists. The budget did not receive as much as PLN 260 billion, and this was about PLN 100 million or more. [[Voice from the room: For eight years.]] Minister, what was Tusk and the Platform all about? [[Joy in the Chamber]] By introducing this tax, I guess he didn't correct it, he didn't make this green island that was so praised on the Platform. What was the crisis, Commissioner, as you said about the green island? And 260 billion zlotys have gone somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Room voice: Bravo, great!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u337	Thank you very much. With the answer to that question, the Minister may have a problem, because he's not the recipient. And now Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u338	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have basically the same question for applicants: Have these billing projects been consulted with the creators' environments? I would also like to learn very much from Mrs Law and Justice, the same whether the PiS has consulted the issues of the draft laws... [[You don't know the rules.]] ...with the creators' environments and whether the creators said they didn't want the Kukiz'15 project or the Civic Platform, because they would rather wait until PiS one by one realizes its next projects, 500+, [[It'll be better.]] [[I can't answer that question.]] Perhaps the Minister will answer that question. Maybe the minister's gonna figure out if that's what the creators said, that they don't want our bill designs, they want the PiS bill, because we know it's gonna be better than the other one. I still have a question for the Minister of Finance because we know that the situation is extremely good, the financial situation. What level must it reach, and when will it be so good that such projects can be accepted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They said the budget would collapse.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u339	That was the last question. Therefore, I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr.Paweł Gruza to answer these last and previous questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to return to the genesis of limiting the cost limit for creators. It was stated here that this limit was introduced due to the bad economic situation and was a consequence of macroeconomics. I would like to say that this limit has been introduced not because of the bad economic situation, but because of the poor situation of public finances. Unfortunately, this very weak situation was due to the lack of adequate government action by the Civic Platform to seal all the basic sources of budget revenue, starting with VAT, through corporate and personal income tax, ending with excise duty. Therefore, even today, the European Commission published a report in which the rise of the VAT gap, the astronomical increase observed in those years, which resulted in a reduction of this privilege for artists... Of course, the issue is kind of inadequate, because the hole resulting from the loss of VAT or CIT income is enormous compared to this kind of tax seal of reducing the privileges for artists, but I would like to say that what is so easy to say today is that there is a good budgetary situation, that is the result of a heavy legislative, control, operational effort... [[So you can afford it.]] ...new sealing ideas introduced in this term of office. Today, further elements of this sealing system are being processed in the government. There is also a procedated bill on changes in corporate and physical income tax. To answer one question: yes, the issue of Artists' Tax is included in government work and decisions on rational reform will be made in the coming days as well. It will be a complex of both sealing regulations and privileges, also in terms of increasing the amount of free, also, I hope, in terms of relief for artists. Without prejudice to the decision of the Council of Ministers in this regard, I will allow myself to conclude. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u341	Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Stanisław Tyszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very glad that thanks to Kukiz'15 we can discuss taxes today. The hypocrisy of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform is beautiful. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Of course we should be heading towards the liquidation of PIT and Kukiz'15, it calls for the only group in the Sejm. Mrs. Śledzińska-Katarasińska, I understand that you are co-responsible for this two-page justification, which can be written in 5 minutes, this is practically an entry on Facebook, where you apologize for introducing this tax, which has no justification. I really liked how your leader Donald Tusk responded by the great writer Stephen Twardoch. President Tusk, the truth, praised him for the book The King, so he expressed his hope that he did not like it, because Tusk simply stole from him, and it stole from him in a way that made absolutely no economic sense for the budget. Besides, you said there was a green island, so what was the crisis? I don't understand the justification for this bill of yours at all. We have, in principle, a full continuation of taxation policy between the Civic Platform and Law and Justice. The predecessors have temporarily increased VAT, Law and Justice temporarily keeps VAT at 23%. You have frozen the amount free for many years, Law and Justice also freezes the amount free. Every year you raised, I say to Platform, ZUS for entrepreneurs, ZUS contributions every year also raises Law and Justice. There are no differences between you in this respect. 21 tax increases. I value Mrs Golbik very much, but Mr Appeal was right... [[But I don't need it.]] I feel sorry for you too - 21 tax increases on the Civic Platform for 8 years and now you have to defend it. This is a sad thing. [[I look forward, not backwards.]] Very good. Very good. Let us all look forward and aim to reduce the tax burden that push more and more people abroad. At this point we are talking about creators, but we have a really tragic situation when it comes to Poles. 2.5 million people voted against their own country and emigrated to countries where it is easier to do business where lower contributions are paid, lower taxes. And this is the joint responsibility of the PO-PiS. Okay, and now I'm referring to individual questions. There's a slight difference between these projects. We, when we were doing the project a few months ago, had a very broad consultation with the creators' community, that was thirty-several associations of them. I do now. The Civic Platform... Indeed, the creators often said that they wanted such records, while we restore the status quo ante before 1 January 2013. At this point, you want to give them a little more... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We want more.]] ...because you're not responsible anymore, are you? That's the definition of hypocrisy. What else? Oh, Mrs Bubula, above all, because this is the most important event of this debate. [[Applause]] I really appreciate the fact that, for example, the translation of the brilliant book I recommend to everyone, the ideas have consequences for Richard M. Weaver. And now, both writing this book and translating this book... It is precisely about the issue we are talking about, the issue of taxation, which is why I would expect you to understand more about it. I understand that Law and Justice want their success. I'm not interested in whether the Kukiz'15 project, the Platform or the Law and Justice project will be adopted, but there's something a little bit of an elegant, unsympathetic about that, right, you have to have your own adopted. This could be put on the committee, work together and show a new way of working on expected laws that are good for citizens. I guess that's it. Excuse me? [[And to the minister.]] Oh, no, Minister... Minister, I just want to know, but I understand that there isn't, because I already asked this question earlier, are there any estimates at last, how much it would really cost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u343	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, you've already served me with Marshal Tyszek, because we actually consulted this project. It is true that, indeed, the creative environments were in favour of such a version. And it's hard to be surprised. If it is more beneficial to them, it is difficult for creative environments to support a less favourable version. That is as much as I can tell you. I'm not really going to get into this argument anymore. You only know, sir, it seems to me that certain things... even if you print $1,000. pages and there will be obvious obvious, it's just a waste of paper. I value Polish forests very much, so I don't think you need to paste everything and teach everything. For me, as if the reason for introducing this is so obvious that we have decided for a very concise and brief reason. It really was. focused maybe on the presentation of the circumstances that caused us to withdraw this relief. And just so you don't know how you're laughing and that there was no crisis, and that there was a green island, I'm going to say that we introduced it when we were obliged to reduce the deficit, that was the tip, 500 million, of a 500 million deficit reduction, because there really was a problem with this excessive deficit procedure. At the same time, no one is talking about it, and the Minister should know that in this law, which changed and actually made it worse for the creators, there were changes that introduced tax exemptions in relation to having children. It was a big change in the tax system. So it wasn't that we didn't know what stupidity we were doing, it was that we knew that of course there would be enormous dissatisfaction, but it seemed that there were some social rations that were more important, the general rations that were more important even than the environment so close to our heart. And that's what we've been trying to do in this project, and I'd rather we didn't talk in that spirit. On the other hand, I regret that because of the Law and Justice, the project would not reach the committee, because there would be something to work on, because one of the reasons for such a withdrawal from this relief to the full extent - I later learned with surprise that there are journalists who earn more than 7 000. PLN per month, and it has always been said that they are earning very little - it was that there was a whole system of pathology around this system. Probably not in the Tax Act, because this is not the place, but the truth is that it is the subject of sealing qualifications when it comes to the exercise of copyright and related rights, and that is the subject that I think we should think about together. Perhaps there will be an opportunity, if what the Minister said... [[Voice from the Chamber: Let's move on to the vote.]] ...will result in some bill being prepared, because I only know that all tax arrangements must be prepared by the end of October, and here the Minister says that work is going on and the government can gather and decide. So I don't think this relief has been introduced since 1 January 2018. And if we started together like this, at least then we would be able to discuss it further. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u345	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u346	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The contested bill abolishes the limit of PLN 42 764 for the application of 50% the cost of obtaining revenue in relation to the revenue of the creators. Since 2013, creative environments have been paying higher tax costs, among others. for the transfer of ownership of the utility design, industrial design, trade mark or decorative design, as well as copyright and related rights by performers' artists. A group of people covered by this tax are often people who bring many innovations, recognizable in Poland and around the world. In the current legal state, the real rate of PIT for creators on income up to PLN 85 528 per year is 9% , while revenues above this amount are subject to an effective PIT rate of 32%. Such taxation is discriminatory and actually makes the creators partially pay tax on the amount of income rather than income. The amendment proposed in the project is intended to improve the situation of creators and to encourage them to carry out this type of activity. I agree that such a model of change can help to improve the situation of many professionals or scientists. The idea of the project itself to support innovation in Poland is very close to me. Such assumptions are based on the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who repeatedly said that the state must support innovation and the innovative economy. However, it should be stressed that although the project supports development and research activities in Poland by reducing taxes, it does not safeguard other interests of the country. The compensation for the loss of PIT tax to local governments and central budget is very laconic. I am afraid that the entry into force of this project is impossible due to the budget deficit and the budget available to the Minister of Finance. Perhaps the project after the correction and the proposal of solutions for obtaining revenue by local authorities from another source will be possible to adopt. The Free and Solidarni Circle on this bill will cast a holding vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u347	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1790 and 1800, respectively, at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. [[Can't we do it now? What is the proposal to make?]] No, I'm afraid not. It is already announced that the vote on these proposals will take place in the voting block, and you will allow... [[Voice from the room: What about opposition?]] No, I'm afraid there's no rule-of-law objection at this point either. Allow me to read the Marshal's message. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the resolution of the Senate on the Act establishing the Day of Combating and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. This report is print 1857. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order (Print No 1751). I ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure as an applicant to present to you print 1751, including a draft law amending the Tax Order, prepared by the Modern Club. The proposal for this revision of the Tax Order is quite simple, and the main objective is to shorten the time limit for reimbursement of the various taxes paid by citizens and, above all, the PIT tax, for which citizens today must wait up to 90 days. We propose that this deadline be shortened to 30 days. We believe that there is no justification for a longer period in the tax system. The current construction of the tax system and the organisation of the tax administration do not really provide incentives for officials and authorities to settle taxes efficiently, including faster reimbursement of the overpaid tax to citizens. The legally accepted tax refund dates come, strangely, from 20 years ago, when offices and officials did not really have support in the form of modern technology and special software. In the vast majority of cases, they had to settle by hand, and so they needed more time. Taxpayers were therefore obliged to wait quite long for the refund of the excess tax and introduced this 90-day deadline. Today, in our view, there is no longer any reason for the government to finance the liquidity of the state at the expense of taxpayers' liquidity, in fact at the expense of citizens' liquidity. Waiting for the refund of overpaid tax also affects taxpayers of excise duty or special hydrocarbon tax, single-member companies of the Treasury and state enterprises, but above all, as I said, every ordinary citizen who is cleared under PIT tax and by the end of April each year is obliged to submit a tax return to the tax office. The head of the tax office, as I said, today has 90 days, counting from the date on which the taxpayer makes this return, which gives us such a deadline that if we have time to make a declaration by the end of April, the tax office has time to pay us the tax refund by the end of July. According to our amendment, every taxpayer would have to be reimbursed by the end of May. Oddly enough, the same, one can say, an additional deadline applies in the case of errors made by the tax office as taxpayers, i.e. if it turns out that we have been waiting for 60 days, the tax office will take into the hand our declaration of annual settlement of the tax on individuals and it will turn out that we have made a mistake there, then a call from the tax office comes to us to explain the error, and the tax office will run again a 90-day deadline for the refund of this tax, which together in the most abstract situations gives the tax office 180 days for the refund of this tax. According to Polish law, the calculation of income tax advances results in the automatic existence of tax overpayments for PIT taxpayers in most cases. For a taxable person who displays only income from a contract of employment in his tax return and does not benefit from any additional tax credit, the amount of that refund shall normally be equal to the amount free of tax, unless the employer takes this amount into account in the meantime in the current accounts. However, if not, this is the amount of up to PLN 1188 in 2017, in previous years it was PLN 556 and 2 gr for each taxpayer. Another situation is that taxpayers with children are expected to pay more refunds. Those benefiting from family relief are more than 4.5 million taxpayers. They get higher amounts of return depending on how many children they have. And they also have to wait 90 days for these refunds, and in extreme cases, as I said, they can wait up to 180 days. Tax reduction solutions, such as tax-free amounts or tax reliefs, aim at reducing the real tax burden and leaving the majority of their really earned wages in the hands of citizens. In practice, then, the later the taxpayer receives a refund of this money, the less benefit for him from this relief, because in the meantime, for example. we may have inflation, which part of the money due to the citizen eats, and in fact the tax office does not pay or charge any interest for this extended period or charge any additional interest. If the taxpayer had paid that money, for example. in a bank account, he would have had a chance to work off inflation and receive interest from the accumulated capital in that account. Like I said, tax reimbursement rules are already 20 years old. Since then, since 1997, significant progress has been made in the computerization of offices, we feel it on a daily basis. Moreover, more and more taxpayers settle PIT tax electronically. In 2015, more than 30% of taxpayers benefited from electronic billing, and this number - it needs to be stressed here - is growing from year to year. The work of the authorities on this basis should therefore be more and more efficient, and the handling of simple, basic citizens' affairs more and more quickly. It can therefore be clearly concluded that this 90-day refund period is not justified. This electronic accounting makes it very easy already completely by reducing to a minimum the duties of the tax office in the context of the tax settlement, in principle limiting them to the verification of the data contained there, entered into the electronic system by the taxpayer. Overpayment of the tax is, as I said, also in the case of other taxpayers, corporate tax, excise duty, so-called. a special hydrocarbon tax. These taxable persons pay tax advances which are often determined on the basis of the profit of the previous year. As you know, year to year can be different - there are fat years, lean years. In the following year, profits may be lower. As a result, companies also sometimes have an excess in the tax paid and such a long period of time for reimbursement also affects their liquidity. There is also a high likelihood of an overpayment in the case of State Treasury companies and state-owned enterprises which are obliged to make monthly advances against profit payments. In a situation where the company does not make a profit of the amount resulting from the advance, there is automatically an excess payment and the extension of the repayment time may, as I said, have a negative impact on the liquidity of the company concerned. In conclusion, this unnecessary delay in passing on tax refunds due to citizens is no longer justified. The computerisation of tax offices over the years has been of great importance - at least it should be important - for the speed of service of citizens and the 90-day deadline for reimbursement of PIT to citizens 20 years ago, but also to other taxpayers I have been talking about should no longer apply. This is the money of our citizens. A citizen who has a chargeable tax to pay must pay it usually within a few days of making a declaration, and the State, using its advantage, without deciding on a partnering style of service for citizens in offices, imposes a very long deadline for reimbursement as unjustified. So much for me. Of course, if there are any questions from you, I would be happy to answer them all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act Tax Order Print No. 1751. The applicants argue that the current construction of the tax system and the organisation of the tax administration does not provide incentives for officials to settle taxes efficiently, including the prompt repayment of the tax overpaid. The statutory deadline is usually 90 days. However, the applicants themselves indicate that the proposed project does not have any legal, economic or financial implications for state finances. Applicants only point to social impacts. They point to the benefit of taxpayers concerning their tax reductions and reductions. After all, this benefit will not change as a result of the statutory change of the time limit for the overpaid tax, it will remain at the same level. There will be no change in percentage or quota relief. Applicants assume that the project will improve the assessment of the functioning of tax offices, and indirectly and across the country, in the eyes of taxpayers and increase confidence in state institutions. In my view, there is a threat of the opposite. Shortening the deadline may cause problems for tax institutions with effective, reliable and efficient implementation of overpaid tax returns. Will this, as a result, increase trust in tax authorities? The applicants themselves indicate that tax returns can be verified much faster at the moment, so taxpayers should have received a refund of the excess tax in advance. This is indeed the case. This applies primarily to the PIT declaration. My observations show that if declarations are made efficiently and sufficiently early, the time limit for the recovery of the excess tax is shorter and in many cases significantly shorter than 90 days. The statutory deadline is a temporary security in cases of doubt and avalanche influx of applications. It is clear that, despite the ongoing information technology, the human factor is the decisive element of organ work. The 90-day payback deadline is reasonable and safe due to the effectiveness of the work and the reliability of the analysis. The Law and Justice Club does not see the need to shorten it to 30 days. In view of the above, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I ask for the rejection in full in the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Tax Order in print No. 1751. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u351	Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Tax Order Act, print No. 1751. The idea of today's parliamentary bill on Tax Order is to improve the functioning of tax authorities in terms of deadlines for taxpayers to receive excess tax payments. To this end, a change has been proposed to reduce the period for refund of the surplus to the taxable person by the head of the tax office up to 30 days from the remaining 90 days in the current legal act. Currently, offices are bound by a 90-day deadline. At that time, the Office is required to transfer any excess tax to the taxable person. Unfortunately, every mistake or error in tax returns arising from the office's fault or the taxpayer's fault extends the refund period by another 90 days. In short, a new 90-day deadline begins from the time of correction to error detection. This also extends the time limit for the taxable person to receive reimbursement or relief. In an era of progressive digitalisation that improves the functioning of tax offices and significantly affects the speed, efficiency and efficiency of their activities, this solution is justified. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of transferring the project to further legislative work, although I already know, I have to say that this is not going to happen because seymology is inexorable. We support the project submitted by the Modern. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u353	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz 15 Club, Mr Blazej Pard. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is indeed a microproject, two sentences, but the project seems right. If there are good ideas, I encourage you. More courage, a little more ambitious ideas would be useful. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You also have two tasks.]] That is why I am saying that I also encourage more of these ideas. Shortening the waiting period from 90 to 30 days seems to be the right thing to do. I also talked about it a year and a half ago. How is it that we have supercomputers, we have data mining, we have databases, we have electronics everywhere, and procedures usually last the same as always? What about technological progress? Where is he in the offices? We've got him in companies, we've got him in a lot of other places. What about the offices? Therefore, this provision should be amended to show the good will of the government, our goodwill towards citizens, that we want the money that belongs to Poles to return to them as soon as possible. Marshal, I would like to make a motion to proceed immediately to the vote after the discussion has been concluded. We will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u355	About what?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u356	It's about rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u357	No, this proposal cannot be voted on today. There will be a vote in the voting block. That's not gonna happen. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u358	Thank you. [[Do you know the rules? You have to read the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u359	Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u360	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A large number of Governmental and Parliamentary Majorities! Every country has its own tax system. In some countries tax is paid once a year, in other countries tax advances are paid. Poland is also such a country. [[Most of the government has left the room.]] Yeah, most of the government deserted. I would like to say here that no country has its own money, except perhaps the Gulf countries, which have huge natural resources. All the money that the Polish government has at its disposal is the taxpayer's money, that is the money that is taken from our pockets, from the pockets of entrepreneurs, from all Poles. What are we getting at? Once a man's made these advances, he'll have to wait until 90 days later, and if he's out there in a small way, he'll be 90 again. We believe that this is extremely unfair because if a taxpayer gets a decision, it often has to execute a tax decision in several days, in a few days or for example. until a month, while the state has 90 days, yes, of course. Ladies and gentlemen! It may have had its reasons at one time, because this is an ordination 20 years ago. 20 years ago, there wasn't even Internet. There was no Internet access in the offices. No wonder everything had to be done in paperwork in general. Now, when about 50% taxpayers are billed electronically, and it seems that there is no problem that the transfer might as well be made electronically and returned to the taxpayer as soon as possible. It is a pity that Mr PiS is not here, who said that he does not see necessity, of course, because they never see it. They only see necessity when they have to make money or jump on stools, right? Only then can they see. [[Applause]] Then they see necessity, of course. But not now, of course not, we don't see, we don't need, why, it doesn't make any sense. No, no, no, it's not pointless, because it's the money of every Pole. Each of us will cease to be a Member sooner or later and will have to go back to normal, standard work, and then he will also pay those advances on income tax, and then he will need that money more quickly. He's gonna need it quicker and so on. within these 30 days after settlement, i.e. at the end of January or at the end of February, when we can settle. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very simple project, a simple change that will make taxpayers feel better. This is also important in such a context that it seems that trust in the state should be built, a desire to cooperate with that country should be built. And if the state is so permanently borrowing from us, taking away our money, it has a income tax which, in general, in my opinion, is a very unfair tax, because it is a tax that charges the work, and this is probably the worst tax that can be, it should at least pay back as quickly as possible what is not due to it. These taxes are still horrendously high in Poland, and so they are horrendously unfair, and so they discourage a huge number of Poles to work. So we've got a 30% gray area, so we're in these lower low ranges, if that's what this is about. So at least we should go to reason with the people who overpaid the tax and return it faster. It's nothing. Of course, this will not have budgetary implications, but it may reduce special accounting creativity. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the government mostly boasts of the technical budget surplus. It's just because she didn't realize the expenses, she didn't make the refunds somewhere, but she's bragging about it, and at the end there's going to be a deficit. This is our money, this is the money of all taxpayers, so we strongly recommend working on this project in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u361	Thank you very much. I will also refer to Mr Blaze Parda's request. The agenda has been adopted by the Sejm and the vote is scheduled for tomorrow. Therefore, in the voting block we will vote on the proposal for law and justice, and your last sentence on this vote is a form of support for the proposal submitted by the Modern. Now I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party, to present the position of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order Act, print No. 1751. As all the previous speakers have said, this parliamentary project introduces the principle of shortening the refund time of the excess tax by the tax authority from 90 to 30 days. This proposal is a change as rational as possible. The current tax refund date, which is up to 90 days, is too long. Besides, it was adopted more than 20 years ago, and during these 20 years of course there have been major technological changes, we have electronic systems for billing, special software and the Internet. This allows for faster tax clearance by employees of tax authorities. Therefore, the proposal by Members to reduce the settlement time of the overpaid tax to 30 days is fully justified and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u363	Thank you very much. Six people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, begins with a question. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question: Does the Ministry of Finance have the data, how much was the average waiting time for the refund of the overpaid tax in 2016 and in these few months of 2017? Another question: Is it true that the resources currently held by the tax authorities, including dedicated IT systems, will enable the purpose of the amendment to be achieved, namely efficient tax settlement, including the refund of the excess tax within a time limit of 90 to 30 days? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u366	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it may seem in the interests of the tax authorities that there are longer periods for reimbursement that are important, but this is not necessarily the case from the citizen's point of view. On the other hand, the return, in particular personal income tax, has already reached a very ancient 90-day history, in principle the very introduction of the Personal Income Tax Act, which is the beginning of the 1990s. Doesn't the Minister think it's finally time to change that? In the Tax Order Act in many cases, in many taxes there is a 30-day payback deadline. This is a change, which consists solely in aligning the date of return in personal income tax, i.e. the so-called. PIT, just for 30 days. But I also have a question for the Minister, because maybe this will only be a legalization of the existing state of affairs. How long do refunds take place? If within 30 days, I think there is therefore no problem to clarify these changes to the Tax Order. And another question to the Minister, taking the opportunity. That's why we're making such partial changes, because we're looking forward to a comprehensive change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tax Order, a comprehensive amendment of this law announced by the PiS government for 2 years. So far there have been no results of these activities of the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u368	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the applicant. In the beginning, I will ask two questions, which I will immediately allow me to answer. Does this project have any negative budgetary implications? And here's the answer: no. Does this project give a better financial position to the taxpayer? And here's the answer: yes. Tell me, from your point of view, why does the government immediately reject this? Tell me why. Why are they so anti-human, anti-human for a taxpayer? Tell me, because I really don't get it anymore. They're always for them. How can you be on them? I think they should watch a movie, I'm on it, it would really help them in their lives. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Like total opposition.]] Let's be like this. Let's be for the taxpayer, for Poland, for everyone. Really a little more optimism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u369	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u370	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the tax system needs to be simplified, and deadlines and procedures need to be shortened so that they are as tax-friendly as possible, as friendly as possible to citizens and citizens. It's the same with this bill. I would like to ask you that this is a question of VAT, but I would still like to ask the applicant, this question is also addressed to the government majority, also to the Ministry of Finance: could the government have previously returned money to VAT taxpayers? These measures, which were to be repaid in January 2017, were returned in December 2016. May I? Yes, you can. So this is a more rhetorical question. This is the return to this main bill that we are debating today. I mean, if it is possible, and the government has shown that it can shorten the pay-back time for taxpayers, I therefore call on the government majority to adopt this bill and to shorten this procedure so that it is not 90 days and 30 days. I cordially ask this on behalf of Polish taxpayers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u371	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask the last question in this queue. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u372	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I am proud to be standing here as one of the modern Members, because this is the first tax law that is so positive to the expectations of taxpayers. There wasn't a bill like that. There was no such law in this Seym. [[It was, Kukiz'15.]] Neither the government nor the Sejm agreed in such a way, in such a simple and effective way that taxpayers had previously received the money paid under tax obligations. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that the State does not finance its needs precisely by holding funds, money that should return to taxpayers. Taxpayers should use them. This also applies to VAT, but in terms of PIT it is a very important project. So, as I appeal to the government side here, I appeal to the PiS club, so that it is not customary to reject this project simply because it is an opposition project, that it is a modern project, but it has adopted this good solution, together with us through the legislative process, so that the Sejm will adopt the first tax law that goes against the taxpayer. Minister! I have a request that you also mention, here, what is the scale of returns, at which average time these phrases are made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it'll be comprehensive information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u373	Thank you very much. Although I have said that the question by Mr Mirosław Suchon will be the last question, he made it in time before we finished the questioning part, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. So, please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u374	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, it's a shame there's no member of the Law and Justice to present the position of the club because I haven't heard such a psychic speech in a long time. Because if someone says that the fact that an entrepreneur will have his money for two months and he doesn't have to take credit isn't good for him, then I just, I don't know... It's an abeccadle. [[Applause]] Just from elementary school when it comes to math. On the other hand, I can honestly say that I am surprised that the Law and Justice question the validity of the changes proposed by the Modern, because, as I remember correctly, one of the main messages that were after the end of 2016, was the praising of the Law and Justice, as they did wonderfully, that in December they gave back overpaid VAT earlier, that it was a huge success of Law and Justice, that after eight years before VAT was returned. I'm asking you where today is this statement that this is the right solution to give people money so they can spend and make their own money. If it was such a success, why are you defending yourselves right now from doing it permanently? You have to be consistent in certain messages. And the question to the Minister is, are there any negative signs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the earlier recovery of the aid, which took place in December 2016? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u375	Thank you very much. I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak for an answer to the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u376	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, High Izbo! Of course, at the beginning, I would like to present to the High House the position of the government in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order, print No 1751. The government's position negatively assessed the solutions proposed in the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order, amending the article. 77 § 1 point 5 and § 2 of the Act of 29 August 1997 on the reduction from 3 months to 30 days of the refund of the excess tax paid over taxes due, i.e. in income tax, arising from the date of the submission of the tax return, in a special hydrocarbon tax, arising from the date of the submission of the annual declaration, in excise duty, arising from the date of the submission of the excise duty declaration, in payments from profits due from single-member companies of the Treasury and state-owned enterprises, arising from the date of the submission of the declaration for the financial year, and the date on which the excess payment of the tax resulting from the correction of the declaration made by the tax authority pursuant to Article was made. 274 § 1 point 1 of the Tax Order and by the taxpayer, as well as arrangements for the application to pending cases under the draft transitional provision. It was also proposed that the deadline for the refund of the excess tax should remain unchanged, i.e. up to 3 months, and in any case where the tax office, following an analysis of the amount indicated for reimbursement, finds that there are no reasonable grounds for stopping the refund, should make such reimbursement without undue delay. I will present the motives of this position. Currently filed statements or statements with amounts shown to be returned require a number of actions: introduction of data into the system, risk analysis and assessment, frequent checking or tax control activities. A significant proportion of refunds are made immediately, e.g. in the case of PIT-28, i.e. the basic tax return, more than 70% were made reimbursements up to 29 days from the date of submission of the statement or declaration in respect of the total reimbursements thereof. Despite the development of IT in tax offices and the progressive increase in the level of public e-government in Poland still a large number of taxpayers use the paper form of settlement. In connection with the reform of the tax administration, tax officials have been burdened with new tasks, and this task would be the next task that would burden them much more. Shortening the deadline for reimbursement from 3 months to 30 days could therefore lead to a risk of delays and irregularities in handling statements or statements with amounts shown to be refunded and thus a negative assessment of the functioning of tax offices and indirectly of the whole state, resulting in the loss of taxpayers' trust. High Izbo! In view of the arguments put forward in the proposal, a negative position was expressed on the draft law discussed today. I hope that in this government position there was also an answer to most of the questions that have been raised here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u377	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to speak with the representative of the applicants, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It's too bad you're not here from Law and Justice, who spoke on behalf of the club. I don't think you understood what I was talking about, because I made it clear and I emphasized it for a reason, perhaps twice, that the rules on which we refund PIT to citizens came from 20 years ago and since then there has been a huge computerization of tax offices. On the other hand, taxpayers who make declarations electronically more often and basically reduce their work to a minimum, which remains on the tax office's side. But in order to illustrate this to you more, because maybe you don't have that knowledge, I'll remind you just how much progress this is. Today, the tax official receives a declaration from the taxpayer. If it is received electronically, it shall verify it and forward it to the settlement if everything is OK. And this is all the work he has to do right now. If he gets it in manual form, then you have to type it into the computer by template, but these declarations are getting less and less. But what did it look like back then? Let me remind you, Minister, that once every taxpayer had something like a credit card. And there was this huge archive at every tax office where every taxpayer had this credit card. It was just paper archived in a briefcase in a big closet. Every employee of the tax office, the taxpayer's accountant, had to go down to the archive, search for the name of the taxpayer in the alphabet, his current account card, go back to his desk, enter the current data there, hand-count everything on the calculator, and then hand-deliver these accounts - in a large bag, to the next department that was involved in the execution of the transfers. Few of this, in the second section in which payment settlements are made, has also been made huge progress, which is that today you do a click in the banking system, and once you had to pull out the billing card of a given taxpayer, introduce, submit data, go to the next billing archive, submit changes there, count it manually on the calculator and - not much of it - take this settlement in the KIR system to the bank in a special bag. And the bank transferred it to the next bank. Today, in fact, this settlement process has narrowed down to us. That was 20 years ago, the IRS didn't have computers. And you're saying that today the tax authorities need exactly the same amount of time as they need to settle the taxpayers fairly, what then? You mock the Polish state, mock the Polish citizens. It is the duty of the State to ensure the efficient and rapid use of citizens in offices. If you can't do it, you can't do it in the 21st century, using modern technology, don't do it. However, what Bartłomiej Stawarski said from Law and Justice is even more a mockery of the citizens... [[Voice from the hall: Stawiarski.]] ...who said he didn't see any benefit in this project for the citizens. I am extremely surprised, because it means that the Member acknowledges that for a four-person family with two children, which receives a pro-family relief of PLN 2224 and to the poor family that benefits from the tax-free amount, so this refund increases by almost 100%. It doesn't matter if she gets that money in September or at the end of May. This is the money for which poor families can take a decent holiday, buy school trips for children in September. It's huge money for some families. You think the big thing was that you gave 500 plus, and you say $4,000. tax refund after 3 months or after a month does it not matter to Polish families? I'll leave it to you without comment. Mr Blazej Parda said it was a simple project, a short project. Yes, sir, but this is an extremely important project for citizens, as I am talking about here, because Polish families, if they make a declaration by the end of April, will receive money by the end of May. This is the perfect time to set them up for a family vacation, for example. by the Polish sea or in the Tatra Mountains. One of the Members asked why the government rejects such a project, whether or not it generates costs for the state budget. It does not give rise to too much cost for the state budget except that it does not allow the liquidity of the state to be financed from the money of its citizens and to benefit from it, I do not know that the State is erasing the money for the deposits for which the money should be collected by citizens, because this is their money. In other cases, there are no additional costs. I don't get it at all. It's just that the government says that the opposition is total, and I'm going to say, this government is total. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Tax Order Act (Print No. 1836). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u380	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a government bill amending the Tax Order Act, print no. 1836. The government's amendment to the provisions of the Tax Order implies adding to the existing catalogue open as evidence in tax proceedings also documents collected during the analysis activities of the National Tax Administration. The new rules will help to eliminate possible doubts and eliminate taxpayers' denial of the use by tax authorities of documents collected in the framework of analytical activities. The draft law also provides for the exclusion of the application of tax secrecy provisions in respect of cases where the taxable person carrying out an economic activity is made available to the counterparty by means of information on the fulfilment of certain tax obligations by the taxpayer, e.g. concerning the failure or submission by the taxable person of declarations or other documents to which he was required under the provisions of the tax laws. The proposed law also provides for the provision of such information by indicating that the tax authority, at the request of the taxpayer's counterparty, will issue certificates of information on the taxpayer's tax situation, excluding the provisions on tax secrecy, including information on the taxpayer's failure to lodge a declaration despite the expiry of the time limit laid down for its submission. The proposed amendments will help protect taxpayers from the consequences of the dishonesty of their counterparties, aim at creating a procedure for a fair assessment of counterparties and enable the taxpayer to obtain information on the tax situation of the counterparty. High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I request that work be undertaken on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u381	Thank you very much, Minister. The Court of First Instance found that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Courtroom vote?]] I'm opening a discussion... [[But not the court, your marshal, the Sejm.]] Did I say that? It's a matter of habit. Excuse me, everyone, Members and Members. Indeed, the Seym. [[It's a bomb to me.]] Well, sometimes there are laps, but I hope you'll excuse me this time. It's just a matter of habit. But maybe sometimes it's good to be court-martialed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So the Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. But that only indicates that, despite the late season, you are listening carefully to all the messages. [[Voice from the room: We are vigilant.]] I'm opening a discussion. And on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please take the floor of the Member... [[The defendant.]] ... Piotr Kościński. [[Huggy.]] Huggy. But this is due to the fact that I have not particularly written letters. Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club, will speak on behalf of this club. You're welcome, sir. Your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u382	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to support, of course, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club this draft amendment to the Tax Order Act, the government draft law contained in print no. 1836. It is generally a project that protects taxpayers from the consequences of the unfair activities of their counterparties by allowing the taxpayer carrying out an economic activity to provide the taxpayer with information on the taxpayer's tax situation. This is very important - we give honest entrepreneurs a tool that will enable them to, for example. to reduce the risk of unintentional participation in the tax carousel, so that we can protect them against all the consequences of unintentional participation in such a criminal, you can say, activity. The amendment proposes the addition of § Article 3 293 Act providing for the exclusion of the application of tax secrecy provisions from the provision of information by the taxable person carrying out an economic activity concerning the non-submission or submission by the taxable person of declarations or other documents to which he was required under the laws of tax law, not to include or take into account by the taxable person in a composite declaration or other documents to which he was obliged under the laws of tax law, and on the taxpayer's arrears or non-obligation in taxes resulting from declarations or other documents submitted under tax laws. This, you might say, small, but very necessary change, whose main objective, as I said, is to protect taxpayers from the consequences of the dishonesty of their contractors. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce a way of making this information available by indicating that the tax authority will issue certificates on the information indicated at the request of the taxpayer's counterparty. The revision of the Tax Order is also intended to eliminate the possible doubts and denial by certain taxpayers of the use by tax authorities of documents collected in the framework of analytical activities. The project was added to the article. 181 open catalogue record that the documents collected in the course of analytical activities of the National Tax Administration are also evidence in tax proceedings. It is important that this change does not affect the ongoing proceedings, since under the current rules, anything that may contribute to the clarification of the case should be allowed as evidence and not illegal. The government proposes that the rules enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. In view of the subject matter of the project and the benefits for taxpayers, we support the amendment within that time limit. The proposed law will have a positive impact on the activities of honest entrepreneurs. The introduction of the possibility to check the tax situation of the counterparty will contribute to the creation of business certainty and will serve to eliminate unfair entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u383	Thank you very much. And once again, Mr Piotr Uściński spoke on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. And now on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Janusz Silchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u384	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The project deals with two issues. The first is to eliminate any doubts as to whether the analytical material of the tax authorities drawn up prior to the initiation of tax checks or tax proceedings can be evidence in these proceedings. In fact, the proposal contained in this proposal is a neutral provision clarifying the current rules on evidence in tax control or tax proceedings. Indeed, some judgments despite the wording of the article. 180 Tax Order (as evidence, anything that may contribute to the clarification of the case and not to the legality of the case) and Article should be allowed. 181 raised reasonable doubts, perhaps to some extent, because of the fact that Article. 181 we have the wording in particular. That's why there were doubts. In our view, therefore, it is probably possible to supplement these provisions in order to avoid such interpretations. On the other hand, the access of taxpayers' counterparties to information from tax authorities concerning the submission of declarations, the accuracy of these declarations or other documents and tax arrears, I can say that I have very serious doubts. This idea of accessing counterparties to information about the taxpayer is not new, he, by the way, has been repeatedly submitted, came mainly in this case the big four and the big consulting companies. This is to some extent fulfilling, it seems, their expectations, because certainly the change of regulations in this respect is the water on the mill of these companies precisely because it will allow them to obtain additional income. These companies are actually preparing the right products for entrepreneurs. As for the idea itself, I have doubts also because this formula will be able to use economic intelligence offices operating not only for Polish companies, but also for foreign competition, even for interviews of other countries. This could lead to a leak of sensitive information, especially those in the article. 293 § 3 point 2. And this is, in my opinion, a thing that can, however, weaken the activities of some Polish entrepreneurs. In my opinion, such information should be made available on a reciprocal basis and with the agreement of the taxpayer. If the taxpayer is honest, there is no backlog, then the data itself will probably be willing to make it available. But what still bothers me is that these regulations, these proposals, do not solve the basic issue, that is, access to data before the conclusion of the contract, and that is when the information is most needed, not when invoices or signed civil law contracts are already issued. I also have doubts about the administration's costs, because I imagine these certificates might be a little bit. I wonder, by the way, how you have assessed the needs in this area, how many additional employees will need to be hired. We will not be against these solutions, but I believe that, especially in this respect, we should make some changes to the data provided by the counterparty. Let me repeat: the taxpayer's agreement to provide information to the counterparty, possibly the possibility for the taxpayer to block it, or for example. Special Services at a time when some unauthorized entities with an evil intention towards our companies will want to obtain such data, or finally the possibility of obtaining data before the conclusion of the contract, because the essence of safeguarding the interests of entrepreneurs comes down to it. We're all in favour of investigating this project. I'm counting on the Minister to take these remarks to heart. The PiS Club, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's not gonna say "no" for principle, as usual, is he? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u385	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Grzegorz Długo when it comes to Kukiz'15. [[He might come back, but we'll see.]] We'll see, we'll wait. On the other hand, we move on. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u386	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern position on amendments to the Tax Order Act, print no. 1836. The draft contains an amendment to the article. 181 Tax Order by extending an example catalogue of evidence to documents collected during the analysis activities of the National Tax Administration. As the speech was here, it is indeed only an example catalogue, so I do not know why the possibility of allowing evidence from documents of the National Tax Administration is being tested here. But if this is to be used for a more complete and effective conduct of tax proceedings, there is nothing wrong with that. Another amendment - Art. 293 § 3 of the Act. Here, in turn, we change the scope of the tax confidentiality by excluding information from its scope, among others. information on the non-submission or submission by the taxable person of documents, including, inter alia, a declaration, information on the non-recognition or treatment by the taxable person of the activities to which he was obliged under tax laws and, a further point, information on the arrears or non-payment of taxes. This information is to be obtained by taxpayers on the basis of certificates. Of course, this certificate shall be issued immediately, not later than 7 days. This results from other provisions. However, the certificate is a document that confirms a given fact or condition. I would ask the Minister - perhaps now or during the sitting of the Sejm Committee - to explain in what form and in how practical manner you are able to confirm the fact that the taxable person has taken or has not taken into account the activities to which he was obliged under tax laws, which is to be issued in the form of a certificate within 7 days. In tax proceedings, as far as this provision is concerned, in my view, it is simply feasible to issue this in the form of a certificate. But, of course, we appreciate the fact that you want to improve the ability to conduct business in a more predictable way, which is why the Modern Posel Club will request that this bill be sent to work in the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u387	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska made her speech on behalf of the Polish People's Party in writing. And I will now ask Mr Ireneus to gain an opportunity to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Tax Order Act, print No. 1836. The draft law proposes to extend the catalogue of evidence which can be used in tax proceedings by amending the provision of the article. 181 Tax Order. According to the new wording of the evidence in tax proceedings, the documents collected by the National Tax Administration in the course of the analytical activities carried out will also be available. This amendment will eliminate doubts as to the legality of the evidence obtained and will prevent taxpayers from denying the use by tax authorities of documents collected in the framework of those analytical activities. Moreover, the scope of fiscal secrecy is also to be amended, Article. 293 The tax administration, in the part concerning the exclusion of its application as regards the making available to the taxpayer's counterparty of information on the non-submission by the taxable person of declarations or other documents to which taxable persons are required under the provisions of the tax laws and the fact that the taxable person is not included in the declaration or other documents to which he was obliged or that the taxable person does not pay the tax resulting from the declarations or other documents submitted by the taxable persons. The introduction of this amendment will create a mechanism to protect taxpayers from the consequences of unfair counterparties by warning them in the event of transactions likely to give rise to suspicion or notification of irregularities found. This is very important, especially for small and micro-enterprises, because such companies are particularly vulnerable to the risk of cooperation with unfair counterparties. Often, one transaction with an unfair counterparty is enough to put a small company without significant financial reserves in difficulty by losing liquidity or failing. The contested bill will also benefit the state budget. I believe that the aim of the concept of the proposed amendments was also to reduce fraud and fraud in the field of VAT on goods and services and income tax, including in particular carousel fraud. Honest entrepreneurs in their own interests will not cooperate with fraudsters and will be able to defend themselves against manipulating such activities. The proposed changes will directly contribute to improving the safety of economic turnover by eliminating unfair operators from the market and increasing the cash flow to the State budget. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will be in favour of a procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u389	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz15 club, Mr Blażej Pard will perform in place of Mr Grzegorz Długi. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, maybe it's short because I've only just read the project, but from what I understand, the government wants every entrepreneur today to be such a small tax office and collect. All documents for all companies, all their contractors. I understand that the IRS is probably not dealing with this issue, but it turns out that every entrepreneur now - wanting to protect himself and be sure that then he will not be accused by the IRS that he has not done something - he will go to the IRS to draw out all the declarations he has ever made to make sure that this company exists and that he pays taxes. There'll probably be even more paralysis in the tax offices, about speeding up tax payments. Once again, there will be no speech and information systems at this point will also not be able to function. Here, too, the interesting question was how the tax office, thanks to the declaration which has these three parties, will know whether the taxpayer paid the invoice of another taxpayer, because we do not include all the NIPs of our contractors, unless it is an intra-Community exchange of goods. So there are many question marks here. I understand the need for sealing and we support it as much as possible, but let's not create any solutions that will not actually do their job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u391	Thank you very much. Two people entered the list of people who wanted to ask a question at this point. Would any of you like to ask another question at this point? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. You are starting Katarzyna Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question: Will the amendment of the Tax Order help honest entrepreneurs to protect themselves from unintentional participation in the tax carousel? If so, how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u393	Thank you very much. And the second question, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, is the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u394	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are expanding here this catalogue of documents, which may constitute evidence, with documents concerning the analytical activities of the National Tax Administration. I previously asked Minister Banasi if you already have analytical tools for the verification of a single control file. At the time, the minister replied that you did not yet have such tools. I would therefore like to ask what analytical documents the National Tax Administration is talking about. Second question. When are you going to finish your work and maybe you just finished it with an analytical program that allows you to verify and analyze uniform control files? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u395	Thank you very much. And I invite Minister Piotr Walczak to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u396	Dear Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I will answer the question, if I may, first, Madam. When I meet with entrepreneurs, I often encounter cases where the subject has been involved in the VAT carousel and unfortunately has to bear the legal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the tool, this amendment - relatively small, but the amendment - Tax Order will give an opportunity, I stress, not a mandatory obligation, but the possibility that, for example, when. there will be a new counterparty which, for one reason or another, will appear to this entity not entirely credible, this entity will be able to obtain reliable information from tax authorities under the law. Therefore, in my opinion, it is particularly small companies that cannot use an economic intelligence service, tax advice, that will have a simple tool to verify their counterparties in order to avoid the kind of cases that have unfortunately occurred before. In answer to the Member's question: yes, the National Tax Administration has several analytical tools. We, as far as JPK is concerned, are analyzing this. Here's what I'm going to say: because these are commercial tools, I can't name these analyzers here, but it just so happens that we have several different kinds of tools that do it independently. Also when it comes to so-called. Data foundation, there is a possibility to validate JPK in this respect. I hope that's exhausting information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u397	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Tax Order Act, print no. 1836. The bill examined introduces two amendments to the Tax Order Act. One is the provision allowing additional documents in tax proceedings. The entry in the Act of the Open Catalogue is added that the documents collected in the course of the analysis of the National Tax Administration are also evidence in tax proceedings. In view of the article. 180 § 1 of the Act stating that, as evidence, anything which may contribute to the clarification of the case should be allowed, and is not contrary to the law, the provision proposed in the amendment of the Act raises doubts and is incomprehensible. The question is whether the designers want to be considered as a document on some kind of analysis. This should be considered too far-reaching a qualification of the document. The second amendment proposed in the proposal is to exclude the application of the tax confidentiality rules as regards the provision of information on tax returns or other documents submitted by the taxpayer to the counterparty by the taxpayer on the accuracy of those declarations, on the taxpayer's arrears or non-payment in taxes resulting from declarations or other documents submitted under tax laws. Therefore, at the request of the counterparty, the tax authority is required to issue a certificate containing the necessary information. The entity entitled to apply for a certificate may be anyone who is a counterparty to a taxable person established in the business, and the counterparty to the taxpayer may be all entities that are party to a financial transaction which is intended to exchange goods or services. The purpose of this amendment is to protect taxpayers from unfair counterparties, to conduct a procedure for a fair assessment of counterparties and to obtain information on the tax situation. In conclusion, it should be noted that the proposed amendment to the Act, giving the opportunity to verify the tax situation of the counterparty, can contribute to the creation of business certainty and the elimination of unfair entrepreneurs. The Parliamentary Club PSL is in favour of directing the project to further work in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u399	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Tax Order, contained in print No. 1836, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. As the Minister of the Interior and the administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak is not yet in the room - a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 52 hrs. 18 min 59]] I ask you to take your seats because the Minister has arrived. As a result, I will resume the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the minister responsible for internal affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that minister and some other laws (print No 1835). I ask the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! The Sejm has accelerated the proceedings, so I apologize for having kept you waiting for a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u401	We waited, Minister, there's no problem. You're welcome. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the State a draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. This law will also amend the title and become a law on special forms of supervision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs as from the date of entry into force. High Seym! The new title of the Act fully reflects the intentions we had in our work on this project. The services must act in a transparent manner and the minister must have real and not theoretical supervision over them. This is extremely important, this is the essence of this proposal that I am making to the High House. The draft law is primarily a realistic standard of civil oversight of uniformed public order services. In the current state of law, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, despite formal sovereignty over the Police, the Border Guard, the Government Protection Office or the State Fire Department, has in practice significantly limited possibilities for fully autonomous and direct examination of signals of negative phenomena in these services or of undesirable behaviours of their officers. The laws in force governing the activities of services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs only define the scope and form of supervision exercised by the Minister in selected areas of their operation. These provisions do not create all the supervisory tasks and responsibilities that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is required to provide because of the competences and tasks entrusted to him. It is therefore necessary to develop solutions to ensure that supervisory functions can be actually carried out by obtaining up-to-date and structured knowledge of supervised services and candidates for particularly responsible positions, as well as a smooth information flow system and legal instruments allowing the Minister to react quickly and appropriately to specific information and events. The need for mechanisms to strengthen the existing instruments of supervision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration also results from the use by supervised services of statutory powers which provide for the possibility of significant interference in civil rights and freedoms, as well as from the performance of tasks liable to cause corruption. One of the most important areas under the supervision of the Minister will therefore be compliance with the standards of operation of the Police, Border Guard, the Government Protection Office and the State Fire Department in connection with the need to ensure respect for civil rights and freedoms and the principles of professional ethics of these formations. The proposed solution eliminates the existing dysfunction by providing the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with instruments for real supervisory impact, as well as preventing irregularities in areas that have not so far been subject to such measures, including, inter alia, those of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. as regards the implementation of operational and exploratory activities, investigations and disciplinary proceedings, or the recognition and detection of prosecutions of public crimes and tax offences committed by police officers, Border Guard and Government Protection Office and firefighters of the State Fire Department, and the prevention of such offences. This is extremely important, the point is to highlight these competences only with regard to officers and employees of subordinate services, so that there are no misunderstandings, because I have already heard other statements from some of you. That's narrowing it down to the officers only. I stress this once again very strongly. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The supervisory activities provided for in the proposed legislation will be carried out through a new supervisory authority, directly subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, i.e. the inspector of internal surveillance, who will carry out his tasks with the help of the Office of Internal Supervision, which is an organisational cell isolated for this purpose from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. The Internal Surveillance Office will therefore not constitute a new service. It's very important, too. The main tasks of the internal surveillance inspector will be to assist the Minister in enforcement activities in accordance with the law and ethics rules, to verify candidates for certain posts, to appoint for higher degrees, in connection with the intended secondment to serve or perform tasks outside the country for a period of more than 14 days, to award, at the request of the Minister, to award, at the request of the Minister, to disclose and analyse irregularities arising in connection with the investigation and disciplinary proceedings carried out, to examine information relating to infringements of the law by supervised entities, to analyse and evaluate operational and inspection activities carried out in the Police and Border Guard, to the extent that this does not prejudice the powers of the prosecutor and the court, to the recognition and detection of offences committed by police officers, the Border Guard, the Office for the Protection of the Government and firefighters of the State Fire Department, and to the personnel employed in these areas, to the extent that this does not affect the powers of the prosecution and the tax authorities, which requires the authorities to exercise their powers to carry out such functions, to ensure that they are competent to carry out administrative agents and to carry out administrative duties in the performance of officials. The specific nature of the tasks of the internal supervisory inspector determines the separation of this function from the body to which it is subject, namely the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. At the same time, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the Minister's supervision and to enable him to take the necessary action immediately, the inspector of internal surveillance will be required to provide information and material obtained as a result of the performance of tasks which may be of major importance for the supervision exercised by the Minister. In turn, the Minister will be able to familiarise himself with the results of the operational and exploratory activities, as well as other activities carried out by the inspector of internal surveillance, and at any time to request information and material from him on the performance of the tasks carried out by the Office. I would also like to stress that the functioning of the Internal Surveillance Office in the field of operational and exploratory activities will be subject to identical formal requirements and control mechanisms, as in the case of services with such powers, including judicial review. This solution therefore meets the Polish constitutional standard requiring independent authorities to provide control and supervisory instruments. The primary area in which operational and research activities will be carried out will be crimes committed by service officers supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs, which seriously undermine public confidence in the institutions of the State. Operational control was also allowed in other cases, e.g. suspected involvement of officers in organised crime groups. On the other hand, the aim will be to detect and prevent offences committed by officials and servants under the authority of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the internal surveillance officer and his alternates, Members of the Office will be seconded to carry out the tasks of Police and Border Guard officers, i.e. 35 inspectors of the Office, and they will be assisted by seconded officials of the Government Protection Office and firefighters of the State Fire Department, i.e. 5 experts of the Office, and employed staff, 8 employees. The essence of the proposed solution is based on the knowledge acquired by seconded police officers, Border Guard and Government Protection Office and firefighters of the State Fire Department in the internal functioning of the Home Service, which is intended to facilitate the achievement of the objectives set before the inspector of internal surveillance. In view of the need to ensure an adequate level of preparation and personnel standards, high formal criteria have been set before candidates for internal surveillance posts and their alternates. Equally high requirements have been placed before inspectors and experts of the Internal Surveillance Office, whose activities, due to the specific tasks of the Office, apart from the highest level of professionalism, must also give the guarantee of indisputability and reliability. Inspectors and experts of the Office will therefore not be able, inter alia, to do so. undertake, as a general rule, additional economic activities and be members of a political party, and membership of national, foreign or international organisations or associations will require the written consent of the inspector of internal surveillance. They will also be required to notify the inspector of the planned foreign departure outside the European Union. Inspectors and experts of the Office will also follow the model of the home services to make statements on their assets. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law also takes into account the need for a maximum reduction in the financial consequences of the Office's operation for the state budget. This purpose is served, among others. resignation from the maintenance of an extensive staff structure to fill the personal status of the cell with officers seconded to carry out tasks as police and border guards inspectors and experts from the Office for Government Protection and the State Fire Guard. The draft law also provides for amendments to pragmatic laws in the field of rules on the deployment of police officers, Border Guard officers and the Government Protection Office and firefighters of the State Fire Department. These amendments aim at ordering the rules on secondments and making them rationally harmonised, inter alia. the definition of a unitary service for all the services of the circle of entities to which secondment may take place. In addition, regulations which are essential for the rights and obligations of officials are transferred from the implementing acts to the statutory level. The laws of pragmatic services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs also include the obligation to cooperate with the Office of Internal Surveillance in carrying out its tasks. The proposed legislation fills the existing gap, which is the lack of cells performing similar tasks at the Government Protection Office and the State Fire Department. This lack is due to the limited statutory competence of both services, which do not provide for the powers to undertake the operational and exploratory activities necessary in the process of the disclosure of irregularities, including offences which may occur in the series of those formations. The proposed rules assume that existing internal affairs cells, namely the Office of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters and the Office of the Border Guard's Internal Affairs, will be organisationally separated from the main command structures and become independent organisational units. In the case of the Police, an internal service will be isolated, which is a necessary procedure, taking into account the specificities of the operation of the Police Unit, the need to create a separate training model, separate supervisory mechanisms, as well as to ensure independence from other organisational structures as a guarantee of reliability and objectivity. The heads of new units will be replaced by chiefs appointed by the Minister for Home Affairs. The nature of the tasks of the new units will remain unchanged. The proposed organisational solution will undoubtedly increase the efficiency of the existing police and border guards' organisational units responsible for preventing and detecting crimes committed by police officers or Border Guards respectively. The new formula for the operation of the BSW, i.e. the Office for the Interior of the Police and the Office for the Home Affairs of the Border Guard, will also provide greater autonomy for the internal service in carrying out its tasks, which should, as a result, also have a positive impact on its effectiveness. The Police Office and the Border Guard Office's internal affairs officers will at the same time gain the status of authorities, and thus similar powers as with the Central Police Bureau of Investigation and the Police Provincial Commandants with regard to operational control, secretly controlled shipment, purchase of controlled data, obtaining data. Until now, office privileges as organizational cells of the main commands have been implemented through the main commandants. Regulations, written consents and requests in this respect will be communicated to the Home Office of the Police and the Home Office of the Border Guard for information by the inspector of internal surveillance. Financial and logistical support of newly created organisational units, i.e. The Police Office and the Border Guard Office will be conducted by the Police Headquarters and the Border Guard Headquarters respectively, which means that the separation of new organisational units and their operation should not cause additional costs. At the same time, the scope of supervision exercised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will be extended to supervise the implementation by the Office of Internal Affairs of the Police and the Office of Home Affairs of the Border Guard for the recognition and detection of and prevention of criminal offences committed by police officers and Border Guards and by public prosecutions and tax offences. In addition, the Chiefs of the Police Office and the Border Guard's Internal Affairs Office will be required to provide the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with information and material which may be relevant for the exercise of this supervision without delay. In turn, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will at any time be able to request information and material from the Chiefs of the Office of Home Affairs of the Police and the Office of Home Affairs of the Border Guard. The Chiefs of the Police Office and the Office of the Interior will also present annually, by 31 January, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, information on the activities of the Police Office and the Border Guard Office. High Izbo! In conclusion, I reiterate that the solutions proposed in the proposal presented to the High House, on the one hand, implement the supervision exercised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs over subordinate services, and, on the other hand, allow for effective and objective verification of all information about irregularities and functioning, as well as the immediate taking of appropriate supervisory action. In the longer term, however, they will create a positive model of an officer whose highest ethical standards should be the basis for public confidence in state institutions. Upon the entry into force of the proposed solutions, an increase in activity should also be assumed. whistleblowers and others interested in eliminating negative phenomena from public service activities, looking for opportunities to investigate reported cases by an independent body. [[Signals.]] Yeah, signalers. [[You mean snitch.]] You're the one with the dictionary. Signals. In the west of Europe, this is a very important function that allows us to actually eliminate abuse. As I understand it, your statements show, you are not interested in eliminating abuse, and you are therefore doing what you are doing. They will not have to fear the consequences, for example. by superiors in the services in case of reporting irregularities, and on the other hand, verification and evaluation of information will be carried out by an entity external to the services. I would like to stress once again that this is the first systemic approach for many years to the question of supervision by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Public Order Services, which also guarantees a practical tool for the Minister of Supervision of subordinate services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Marta Kubiak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u402	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 presents to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and employees of offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws, print No. 1835, with draft implementing acts. High Izbo! The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has submitted a draft law aimed at improving and implementing the effective supervision of subordinate institutions and services. The Minister's supervision will be carried out by means of an internal surveillance inspector whose activities will be in support of the Minister in the exercise of supervision. The inspector will carry out his tasks with the help of the Office of Internal Surveillance. In the current state of law, the problem is the lack of rules that would create all the supervisory tasks and responsibilities that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is required to ensure because of the competences and tasks entrusted to him. It is necessary to establish mechanisms to strengthen the existing instruments of the Minister over supervised services which exercise such statutory powers as provide for the possibility of interference in the rights and freedoms of citizens and perform tasks which may cause specific corruption risks. These risks oblige us to develop solutions that will strengthen the minister's real supervisory impact. The Minister should be able to diagnose the situation, identify negative phenomena and events and prevent them from occurring through appropriate instruments. It is extremely important to guarantee the Minister's powers to disclose and monitor conduct that violates the principles of professional ethics in order to guarantee the highest standards of operation of supervised services. In order to achieve full objectivity, civil services should be subject to supervision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, who, on the basis of the information obtained, will be able to assess not only the individual facts but also in the event of repeated irregularities, implement corrective or systemic solutions. It should also be possible for the civilian supervisory authority to disclose and analyse irregularities arising in connection with the investigation and disciplinary proceedings carried out in the Police, Border Guard, Government Protection Office and the State Fire Department. According to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 8 August 1996 on the Council of Ministers, the Minister directs, supervises and controls the activities of subordinate bodies, offices and bodies. The problem is that the provisions cited above do not provide instruments that would allow for a real diagnosis of the situation in supervised entities and would also allow for a fully effective countering of negative phenomena. These instruments exist, but they remain only at the disposal of certain central government bodies under the authority of the Minister. These instruments are owned by police chiefs and border guards. The tasks of these bodies shall be carried out by means of internal affairs offices. The problem is that the Minister has mostly information processed by the said authorities without the possibility of autonomous and direct action. The essence of this project is to give the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration powers comparable to those of the bodies under his authority. The current legal status with supervisory instruments includes the Police and Border Guard, leaving the Government Protection Office and the State Fire Department out of control. The proposed project creates the possibility for the newly established cell directly subordinate to the Minister, but does not provide for such an obligation, so the Office of Internal Supervision would deal with specific issues which undermine public confidence in the institutions of the State. With regard to the aforementioned internal affairs offices, the headquarters of the Police and Border Guard, they will become organisational units called internal affairs offices of the Police and Border Guard, but the nature of the tasks of the new units will remain unchanged. It is worth noting the problem of the current legal situation, where the minister supervising the service can only receive processed materials. The proposed bill eliminates the risk of subjectivising the selection and assessment of the information provided. For the Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] I recommend that law and justice adopt the bill and direct it to further work in the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u403	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club - Mr Marek Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is an attempt on the independence of uniformed services and another step in their politicisation. Minister Błaszczak, trying to expand his powers, reaches for solutions similar to those used in the Polish People's Republic. Since General Kiszczak, no minister has had such power over uniformed services as Minister Błaszczak is trying to give himself today. If the real purpose of this reform was to change the way uniformed services are supervised, you would probably stop at the separation of the Office of Home Affairs in the Police and Border Guard. And we could probably support that, and we could talk about how these regulations could include other services as well. That would be a real non-political strengthening of control over what is happening in uniform services. But instead of using such a simple solution, you have led to some dualism - on the one hand, you separate the Office of Internal Affairs in the Police and Border Guard structures, but on the other hand you create a political overlay, i.e. the Office of Internal Surveillance in the Ministry of Administration and Internal Affairs. As a result, police officers and other officers will actually be controlled twice: and through these offices, and through the office, which will be directly subject to the Minister. In my view, the real purpose of this project is to create an Internal Surveillance Office directly subordinate to the Minister, because this office will enable the Minister to intervene in the management of uniformed services. I would like to remind you that in 1990 a European standard was introduced in Poland, according to which the Minister exercises civil oversight of uniformed services, and that politically independent chiefs are responsible for the management of services, they are the superiors of officers. Today's law destroys these standards and returns to solutions from the period of the Polish People's Republic, where it was the minister who could directly interfere with the actions of militias and other services, which were then part of the Ministry of Home Affairs. According to the draft prepared by the government under the Ministry, i.e. the politician, the Office of Internal Supervision will gain powers e.g. to verify candidates for executive positions in uniform services, verify candidates for promotions, and even verify candidates for distinctions and decorations. These new procedures and other control procedures will cover 200,000. persons, because they will be officers and police officers, and Border Guards, and the State Fire Department, and the BOR, but also civil servants employed in these institutions. And this is a situation in which the Minister cares about the chief commanders, because today the pragmatic laws decide on which positions you can decide to appoint specific people, while through these verification mechanisms you will in fact gain an unlimited opportunity to interfere in staff policy in subordinate uniform services, because the office under your authority will simply be able to give a negative opinion and then such a chief commander will have to try to succeed and finally propose a candidate who is acceptable to you. Which is also our very serious charge, is that the Office of Internal Surveillance will gain powers that are actually customary for special services, i.e. the right to conduct operational and cognitive activities, i.e. to remind you - the use of wiretapping, correspondence checks, but this is also the right to obtain telecommunications and internet data, the right to conduct provocation, the right to use documents to hide identity. The Minister noted that these activities, new operational and cognitive activities and other forms of control would include 200,000. Officers. But that is not true, because they will often include their families, their spouses, their loved ones, who also use mobile phones, using other things. Finally, they will embrace all those people who are calling police officers, all the loved ones, all those who are in contact with them. And here's the cherry on the cake. The Minister grants himself the right to review all the activities carried out by the Office of the Interior, including the results of the operational and exploratory activities. It means that the results of these activities - so, as I understand it, in fact, protocols and transcripts from conversations - you will simply receive them on your desk. And this is a breach in the way of supervision of the implementation of surgical and cognitive activities, which today operates in Poland. Minister Ziobro has similar powers, but I will remind you that Minister Ziobro is the Attorney General. You, Minister, are not the Attorney General, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not allowed to do that kind of thing. This is a dangerous tool. Similar powers in the Ministry of Home Affairs, i.e. departments operating operations, this is the period of the Polish People's Republic. Back then, there were departments that were monitoring the opposition, surveillance the Church. These departments were operating, which is what the Office of Internal Supervision will be able to do today after the entry into force of this law. Mrs. Marshal! The Civic Platform requests that this bill be rejected. We believe that this law does not allow for the achievement of the objectives referred to by the Minister and the secret goal that the Minister will pursue is to further politicise the services and further intimidate the officers in the subordinate services. We can't agree to that, which is why we're filing a motion to reject the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u405	Thank you, sir. And I invite you to the speaker of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, who will perform on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding printing no. 1835, to the government draft law amending the Act on certain powers of employees of the office serving the minister responsible for. internal and officials and staff of the offices supervised by that minister and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the MMA is not an ordinary ministry, it is an MMSiA group, actually on the main page, where, alongside police, Border Guard, fire department, there are other issues that are very important to the security of the state, such as the Civil Defense of the Country, but also, ladies and gentlemen, the Centre for Personalization of the MMSWiA Documents, there is evidence, there are passports, and there is the Office for Foreigners. In other words, the MSWiA group is an important place, but the question is whether this group needs its special service today. Minister, here I would discuss whether this is service or not, but this institution you are proposing has exactly the tools of operation of the special forces. Moreover, if you were to examine the bill so thoroughly and compare it with your existing structure today, the Department of Public Order is already dealing with anti-corruption programs today, the Department of Security in the Ministry of Home Affairs also oversees these security and security issues, the Department of Control and Supervision also, and the Office of Personnel, Training and Organization deals with personnel issues in the Border Guard, in the Fire Department, in the BOR, in the Police, also on promotion issues, etc. In other words, it's not exactly that the Minister can't do anything that the Minister doesn't have any tools. The minister can, the minister has the tools. I have a different feeling. I have the impression that this bill shows one dramatic element: that things are bad in the police force and that things are bad in the Border Guard. Because after reading this print, police chiefs and border guards should resign and internal affairs offices should be disbanded. It follows from this conclusion that the procedures that should work, ladies and gentlemen, because today these offices are there, are these institutions, are not working. This is the conclusion that, unfortunately, it is wrong that these procedures are not being implemented. The separation of these offices from the Police and Border Guard structures is undoubtedly the right direction for this autonomy to be strong and greater. I agree here, it's important, it's necessary. On the other hand, we cannot create such a situation that the chiefs of the Police and Border Guard become blind and deaf, do not know what they have or who they work with, and at the same time the chief of the Home Office will be the first, in fact he will rule the Police and Border Guard, not the chief of the Police or the chief of the Border Station, because the Minister will first ask the chief of the Home Office and will have more confidence in him than the chief of the Home Office. Such a highly illegible, inconsistent hierarchy and reckless design will make the right thing for us to have qualitatively better in the police, and in the border internship, where we have a blur, disappear. We are going into manual control, and unfortunately, at this point, the Minister becomes as if he had been sentenced to political action and will be used for strict political purposes. This is unnecessary, it is wrong, therefore I think that today the Kukiz club15 cannot support this project in this version, which does not change the fact that we believe that the strengthening of offices must be carried out, like the CBI, so that these structures operate and are right to exist, while seriously making a systemic change not only in the MSWiA, but also in the Police and Border Guard. Unfortunately, at this stage, Kukiz15 does not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u407	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the office supervised by the Minister and certain other laws. Minister! Law and Justice have accustomed us to the fact that very often they make silly, stupid, stupid laws. Unfortunately, this bill is no longer on this scale. The project serves to provide the Minister with tools for manual police control, Border Guard, Government Protection Office and even the State Fire Department through an internal surveillance inspector. I have a question for you if you've lost I already trust those people who are running the Internal Affairs Bureau right now. Apparently, yes, apparently you have a problem again, as with the chief of police, that what you choose doesn't suit you and you need to change quickly. Then say, I don't trust these people, I'm slowing down, and I'm cleaning up. The inspector of internal surveillance will depend only on the minister, the minister will appoint him and cancel him at practically any time. In practice, it means politicising the police, because the minister will have such a huge tool for putting pressure on police officers, let's not hide it. The supervision will be subject to operations such as the conduct of surgical and exploratory activities and the verification of candidates for posts. This is a puriazum, because if this is how irregularities are to be searched, what does the choice and selection of candidates for irregularities have? You presume, I don't know, that the contest is wrong because you already suspect that there might be something wrong, that it will be the internal surveillance inspector who will judge and verify candidates for positions. The same is true of disciplinary proceedings, data collection and processing, and of all matters typically internal, as services deal with irregularities within them. In each service under the head of the MMSIA, there are cells responsible for combating irregularities related to the operation of the service. Home Office of the Police, Home Office of the Border Guard and individual, private cell phone at the Government Security Bureau. There is therefore no need to duplicate control powers. The crimes committed by officers are dealt with by internal cells and by the general justice system. Under this law, the Police and Border Guard Offices will be separated and their directors will be replaced by the Minister. The Minister may authorise the provision of classified information to these services. Inspectors of the Internal Security Office, which is a mobile under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will have very wide powers to eavesdrop, record, secure documents, access to bank data, to mail, to telephones. They can also use false IDs. This will introduce an atmosphere of total intimidation, paranoia, since anyone can be a spy of the Minister. The office and the inspector, as I have pointed out, are subject only to the Minister. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the act aims to strengthen the position of the so-called. Signalists, that's why I referred to it. Something else is the whistleblower who, in accordance with the applicable procedures, reports irregularities to his superior and, if those irregularities concern the superior, reports them to the justice system. And you want him to report directly to you without the service and this channel of subordinates, that's what it looks like. I would like to draw attention to one more thing that is quite important. Once again, you're cheating. You're cheating, you're changing the bill because the bill that was evaluated and which was the basis for the evaluation of this action contained completely different powers of the Minister. There was a collegial oversight of that inspector. You can see that you were afraid, the more that even the very mild version of the bill has been subjected to total criticism; little of that, yet you have strengthened it. Therefore, Minister, the question to you is: Why do you need another special service in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we in such a danger that every minister of this government will have his service? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u409	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u410	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! Poland and Poles deserve services, which should not only be the basis of order and internal order, but above all a friend of citizens of their own state. However, in order to achieve this objective, the so-called. The security and public order services of the uniform must not remain outside the direct constitutional control of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. At the beginning of the current term of office of the Sejm, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration announced the strengthening and concreteisation of supervisory instruments in relation to the security and public order services under his supervision. The events of recent months have shown in a clear way how inefficient the Office of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters, the Office of Control of the Police Headquarters and the Department of Control and Supervision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration are in their control activities. These authorities are most often extinguished by fire, and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs has only the knowledge that the Chief of Police or other services will provide to him. The Minister is often surprised by the findings of a prosecutor's investigation conducted in the case or against specific police officers, Border Guards or the Government Protection Office. This clearly demonstrates the lack of supervision by the Minister in terms of the possibility of identifying, detecting and early prevention of intentional offences prosecuted by public prosecutions and tax offences committed by so-called officers. U.S. uniforms. We strongly hope that, after 20 months of rule by law and justice, we, parliamentarians, and society, as well as a large part of the so-called officers. We will see a real, new, short regulation on the real and real supervision of the minister's subordinate services, but we are deeply disappointed with the project submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If the Minister's heart was really concerned, he would like to have knowledge in this matter, then it would be necessary to build on the existing Office of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters, the Office of Control and the Department of Control and Supervision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration one dynamic authority. I.A. and give him control and inspection powers, but only to officers. In the headquarters of the voivodship police and in the headquarters of the Capital Police, delegations of such an office should be created. When analyzing the bill, a number of fundamental questions should be raised. Why would a minister want to see into the arrangements for operational and research activities? Why should the future head of the Internal Affairs Office be burdened with personnel matters? Why should the same authority have the power to appoint or not appoint officers, attention, from the post of chief of chief? What does that have to do with fighting crime and pathology? What's really going on here? Such actions, Minister, will only lead to a complete politicisation of the uniform service, which our consent is not and will never be. The bill does not solve real problems, increases employment and additional costs. Taking all this into account, the Polish People's Party cannot support such a legal bubble and be ashamed of the uniform services for recklessly noding any irrational amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u411	Thank you, sir. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. As the applicants point out, the aim of this project is to strengthen the efficiency and effectiveness of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration for the supervision of uniformed services: Police, Government Protection Office, State Fire Guard and Border Guard. It explicitly sets out the scope of the supervision and indicates that support for the Minister is to be given to the newly appointed authority, the inspector of internal supervision, and that this task is to be supported by the Office of Internal Supervision set up in the structures of the MMSWiA. According to the provisions of the project, the internal supervision officer will be responsible, inter alia. enforcement of appropriate standards for the work of uniformed services, including the disclosure of irregularities in respect of their respect for human rights and freedoms and of the citizen. In addition, his tasks include the verification of officials who are candidates for decoration, the appointment for a higher degree or for higher positions, as well as the detection of fraud, but above all prevention of any acts in the service and committed by employees of abuse services. Reading the daily press and browsing information web sites, I have no doubt that the proposed regulations are needed. It is not difficult to come across further incidents in uniform services, abuses, as in the case of the tragic interrogation of Igor Stachowiak already raised by the High Sejm, tragic because of both the death of this interrogation and the slowness to explain this tragedy. We cannot allow any more such misfortunes not only in families, but also - through permanent destruction of the conviction of integrity, the rule of law and the morality of uniformed services - throughout the Polish state. It is necessary to adopt such regulations as will allow for the effective prevention of the crossing of competences by officials and will combat existing pathologies in the services. This is the only way we can rebuild citizens' confidence in you and their sense of security. The solutions contained in the proposed law have a chance to meet their requirements. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u413	Thank you, Member. Six persons entered on the list of Members who joined the task of the question. Anyone else want to join us? I can't see. We therefore begin with Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u414	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you have just said from the speaker that the Internal Surveillance Office will not be a new service, but, according to the opinion drawn up by Professor Mirosław Stec, President of the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers, the draft opinion provides for a wide range of powers for the Internal Surveillance Office, a significant part of which involves interference in the sphere of freedom and constitutional protection, and the proposed scope and nature of the activity brings this entity closer in many respects to the classic security and public order services, which will not change the assurance of the designer that the office is only an organisational cell in the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The draft of this law has been negatively assessed by the social side, all trade unions of uniformed services. I have the following questions: Is it true, as the social side points out, that the solutions proposed in this law are an expression of the Minister's lack of confidence in the services currently in place and the mechanisms developed to control and supervise them? Why do you want to manually control uniforms? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u415	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Act of 8 August 1996 on the Council of Ministers makes it clear that the Minister directs, supervises and controls the work of his subordinate authorities, offices and bodies. However, this article does not allow me to properly diagnose the situation in supervised entities. Minister, I have a question: Is it true that, for the moment, the Ministry has mostly processed information, without the possibility of autonomous and direct action? What will be the scope of the internal surveillance inspector's duties, and how will this affect the effectiveness of the Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u417	Thank you, Member. And another question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I see Minister Zieliński, the Minister has come out of the shadows. Welcome. [[What's all this malice?]] Minister, I have a question. When I read this project, I'm scared, to be honest. This is another law that you grant yourself with such unlimited authority over services and basically unlimited information about ongoing proceedings. Although the declared purpose of the law is to ensure more effective supervision of services, the proposed rules equip the internal supervision inspector with extremely broad powers. For example, in accordance with the new Article. 1c of the amended act would be entitled, first, to verify police officers, Border Guards, BOR and PSP firefighters, as well as employees in these services, namely in the specific article mentioned therein, secondly, to familiarize themselves with the results of the operations carried out by the Police and Border Guard and to obtain information on the results of the activities carried out by the internal surveillance inspector. It also follows from the justification of the project that the proposed solutions confer exclusive powers on the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, i.e. powers comparable to those at the disposal of its subordinate authorities. And, in general, the trick used to access all surgical and cognitive information will be very simple. in accordance with this Act. To see if the officer was ethical, the Minister would simply ask for access to all this information from the proceedings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with surgical and cognitive activities and then access to them. It's obviously shocking. Minister, is it true that this is such a way to circumvent the principles of a democratic rule of law, to gain access to information, in violation of fundamental human rights that are in force in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: It is not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u419	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. Minister, there will be time for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the modern, referring to my previous speech, is for rejecting this project at first reading. The whole project has already been severely criticised here. Indeed, it is shocking that the Minister is trying to have even more power and manually steer the service so on a good matter, and yet he is calling his own. Minister, one question: Is it true that the public consultation was subject to another project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u421	Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u422	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! From what we have heard, what the Minister is saying, it appears that there will be seconded officers from the various departments for internal surveillance, which means there will be no politicians here if you would like to see this. [[But the minister is a politician, the minister is all...]] But, sir, I would like to say this: at the committee meeting, you scream all the time, you demand the head of the minister for the fact that there was an incident involving police officers that should not have happened. The Minister receives information, as we have heard, processed, because the Chief Chief comes in, explaining himself, the Minister can only listen to what the Chief Chief says. Maybe it's time for this oversight to be bigger, so that the Minister can have firsthand information about how it really was. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Wouldn't it be, Minister, that you're going to have this surveillance much, much bigger now, and you'll be able to answer some of the questions asked by the opposition yourself? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u423	Thank you, sir. The last question at this point in the Sejm will be asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Modern Messenger! It seems to me that it would be a lot easier and quicker if you recorded your speech, because whenever you enter the platform, whatever the bill is, you say that she is stupid, deadly, unethical, you sometimes use such terms that it is an act of meanness. Therefore, sir, in answer to your question, your statements are as you say about the laws... [[What kind of censorship is that?]] [[Knight!]] We'll be talking about the knight in a minute. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing uniformed services. There can't be calls like we think. These are things that are subject to certain procedures, is an order, there are matters to be done. The appointments of such persons do not take place on such a principle that e.g. We're calling a tenement referee. We're just calling a uniform. On the other hand, to the Member of the PSL - sir, you are talking about the fact that it will be a political service. Come on, show me the police policy. He used to be like this. I don't know if you remember, he was Chief Chief... [[The inspector pointed to the warden.]] ...was chief of police, and then where did he run from, what election letters? Perhaps the honourable Member would remind me. [[He resigned. There's a difference.]] There were politicians back then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u425	And the question, sir? Because it was time for questions. [[And the corrigendum?]] No, I'm not giving the floor to correct it. [[For the review, the Member has been appointed.]] Minister, I ask you to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In these questions there are many ideas that you create, which have nothing to do with reality, and a lot of slogans. We hear about it every day at your press conferences. Here I address the total opposition: yes, we have heard about this many times, it shows that you are very far away from reality. The Home Secretary won't manage the services, he'll only have the tools to supervise them. You have criticized me many times, you have made various accusations to me in cases where, after this law has entered into force, I will have the tools to investigate them as the Minister of the Interior. The powers won't increase by a millimeter. Today, this is the competence of the Office of Internal Affairs of the Police, today it is the competence of the Office of Internal Affairs of the Border Guard. The only thing that's gonna change is that the Home Secretary is gonna have oversight of, uh, Colloquially speaking, the Police Department. You said that you think it's wrong, that you're going to check candidates from higher chiefs, but that's the right thing to do, that's the control, that's the supervision. Wardens and other officers who make decisions that include executive functions should be people of good repute, should be people who are not caught up in crime, in various strange relationships. This model, this system, gives the Home Minister such an instrument, such a tool as is described in this law. Today, the Minister of the Interior, and not since today, not since yesterday, appoints chiefs of the voivodship police, asks for distinctions, for distinctions, for awards in specific, individual cases, and the minister's supervisory capabilities are small, they are very small. You said there was such a good situation that a police officer complaining about police structures could complain effectively. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. What world do you live in? I understand that in parliament, especially in the state of total opposition, you can tell things, uncircumcised stories, nonsense. Parliament is here to tell stories, although there is a limit to ridicule... [[Exactly.]] ...when you're talking about a police officer complaining about police structures can do this effectively. You cross that line, you just cross it. Public consultation. We listen to voices in public consultations, and we draw conclusions. We are therefore presenting the project to Parliament, and you are assessing this project and then, I hope, this project will become the law in force in Poland, because this law, these regulations, provide an effective tool for supervising the services of the Home Affairs Minister, and thus allow such actions to be effective in eliminating the pathologies that occur in all departments. Pathology needs to be combated, pathology needs to be eliminated, pathologists cannot be indulged, and your statements show that you would be willing to indulge pathologists, even when you were in charge, it was. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u427	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks (Print No. 1837). I ask the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a draft law adopted at the Council of Ministers, a law on the financing of educational tasks. This is a project, ladies and gentlemen, which has been developed for many months by a team set up in November Ub. (a) at the Minister of Education, which consisted of experts from the Ministry of Education, representatives of local governments and trade unions. At the same time, it was the result of meetings of experts from the Ministry of Education with local experts who are involved in the financing of education, as well as research by the Institute of Educational Research and reports by the Supreme Audit Chamber. I do not hide that this law was intended to have a much wider scope and there were much deeper changes planned, namely that we wanted education subsidies to look completely different. The one who is illegible, unjust, archaic, hard to count. First of all, we wanted to make this educational subsidy dependent on the branch, not only on the students, but at the request of the local government, we put this off, we completed a stage and we will be going back to the end of November to further analyze just such treatment of the educational subsidy, so that in 2019 we can propose solutions to which the local government, trade unions and the Ministry of Education will agree. Therefore, please, that we have made such a decision, we have also agreed with Parliament that at the end of our term we will part with the Law on the Education System, so we are consistently drawing out individual elements so that laws are made dedicated to very specific components which are in the education system. Hence, we have limited ourselves to what local governments have been waiting for for for many years, i.e. to seal, organize grants. In the Act we have four grants: a textbook grant, a pre-school grant, a scholarship grant, as we call it, and, of course, a grant for non-public institutions or public bodies run by other bodies than local authorities. As far as the textbook grant is concerned, of course this is The effect of the fact that local governments, principals, teachers complain that she is very bureaucratic and very necessary, because all children from the first grade of primary school to the last converted junior high schools receive textbooks for free. It's a large amount in the grant, a large amount in the budget. But such bureaucracy did not allow flexibility in the selection of individual textbooks. At the same time, many organizations and associations emphasized that this might be an excuse to suspect teachers that they support some lobbying of individual publications, especially when it turned out that they were choosing from some publishing house, e.g. The math textbook, they actually choose the whole package because it was more convenient to settle. Therefore, at the request of local governments, we have made such records that say that here is the amount for the school, the principal has this amount in any way. Where you have to pay more for textbooks, you will pay, where you can negotiate and lower the price, you will be able to do so. He's gonna settle the whole grant. At the same time, we have changed that 1% will be allocated to the settlement of this grant. not from the amount spent, but from the grant. I think it's also interesting for the directors, because they actually have a lot of work to do with the grant settlement. Another one, ladies and gentlemen, is a preschool grant. Here was a big problem, there were many misunderstandings between municipalities, the municipalities discussed who was to pay a grant or pay a grant for a kindergarten which was located in one municipality, and the host body or body that decided on the network was another municipality. We're organizing the situation, i.e. This grant will not depend on the location of the facility, but on the operator and the registrant. As far as scholarship grants are concerned, I think it is a great shame for all of us to see it when some municipalities returned social scholarships to the state budget. The reason was brutally simple, namely the fact that in each municipality, regardless of the income of that municipality, participation of 20% had to take place in order to pay a social scholarship. This led to the fact that many municipalities were simply not involved. It's a pity for the money, it's a pity for children who simply deserve these scholarships. We have therefore decided - also at the request of local authorities - that this grant will depend on the wealth of the municipality. Where the municipality is poorer, the state has a specific algorithm shown in the explanatory memorandum and in the law, it will be able to propose a proportionally smaller contribution. I think it's for the good of the children and also for our comfort that we won't be ashamed to admit that, among other things. Such grants return to the state budget. As regards grants for non-public or public establishments run by entities other than the local government, please, there are a lot of changes. They are all fulfilling the needs of local government officials, from such very troublesome ones, which caused many conflicts, including court proceedings. We give up the definition of a kind of school, because nobody really knew what the type of school meant, and the grants were charged in different ways. At the moment, we only depend on subsidies, but, of course, increased by a certain indicator. Those schools, ladies and gentlemen, are also running out of garbage contracts. The teacher will be employed in accordance with the Labour Code. It is difficult to propose the Teacher's Charter, because trade unionists have also called for such solutions, but we cannot lead to such a situation that only for this reason the local government resigns from school, so that teachers earn only a minimum wage, having a 40-hour week's work. We find that in the 21st century it is simply unacceptable, in addition in the years that are coming to us, the years of the employee and not the employers. At the same time, we clearly say to those who run or are other authorities for schools, kindergartens, as well as for the police forms that they are in the educational information system, i.e. they will only be accounted for by those who, by 30 September, will simply give honestly in the system how many students they have, how many teachers they employ. Besides, we also give a lot of freedom to local authorities, who will finally be able to control at different times how this grant is implemented, especially - as you well know - in preschool schools for adults or in preschool institutions, where it turns out that on 30 September there are a very large number of listeners or kindergarteners, and in May, for example. there was no grad school exam or professional exam. We therefore make it clear that we will share these grants. The first tranche will be when they register in the educational information system, where there will be information on how they attend - especially in the school for adults - listeners; it must be at least 50%. And then we're addicting donations to payouts. This cannot be the case, ma'am, that we spend over PLN 9 billion on vocational training from education subsidies and from various other places and give up this responsibility. However, we maintain quality, make sure that it ends with an exam and entry into the labour market. At the same time, what the local government picked up: here too we did it. Namely, in the case of kindergarten and in the case of police forms for adults, a grant can only be taken once, i.e. for one listener and one child. There were a lot of situations where one child was the basis for counting grants for three or four entities. It's the same in the case of adult police schools. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a summary of these provisions relating to the grant. With regard to the elements of the Teacher Card that were there, those provisions that are in the Act are, of course, the result of compromise, because perhaps for the first time we worked in such a team, where the local government also met with unionists. Therefore, we had to deal with different kinds of views. We've also completed a phase. It's not like we've finished this band's work. It was a moment when further discussions were already connected, among others. with another counting of the educational grant, and it was decided that this stage was over, we can translate it into a bill. I remind you, on April 30th, a 1.5-hour press conference took place at the Ministry of Education, where we meticulously reported on the work of this team. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I think that from this speaker - and I will repeat this every step of the way, because the words of the untruth are already living their own lives - the disturbing teachers are told that there is no Teacher's Charter. Please read the minutes of the meetings of the teams on which, of course, local government officials have always raised this issue that they would like to resign from the Teacher's Charter. I am an advocate of the Teacher Card and I am just explaining to the local government how important it is. But, of course, we have accepted that much needs to be changed in this card - as much as we have been able to discuss it and meet halfway. I think the changes are very good. Let's start with the fact that injustice ends with hiring educators, psychologists, speech counselors and tutors. First of all, we have a fixed penny, i.e. 22 hours working with a child, because I remind you how decimated the information was about the fact that the teacher in one school has a salary of 35 hours, and in the other - just 22. It's unfair, and let's not get addicted or let's just let it go, let's say it's 22 hours. At the same time - because this is what we will be proposing to you in 2018, so that the bill will appear in 2019 - we are with many studies and pilots on inclusive education. Therefore, we do not imagine that, when touching the Teacher's Charter, working on the Teacher's Charter, we should not take care of the teacher's supporting teacher explicitly and unambiguously. It can't be a case person, it can't be an assistant who's employed in a different dimension than a teaching teacher. Assistant teacher, ladies and gentlemen... In a system where we have to patiently learn inclusive education, teach children inclusive education, teach teachers inclusive education, this will be one of the basic forms of professional training for teachers: inclusive education. We had to clearly define a supporting teacher. His penis is, ladies and gentlemen, 20 hours. At the same time, we recognised, also with the agreement of unionists and local government officials, that the director and vice-director would not have any overtime. Because the function of the school is a very responsible function - from education, upbringing, to security - the director and vice-director are to be at the disposal of parents, students and teachers. Therefore, their salary will be as much as this results. From what they teach. That'll be the maximum number. E.g. The polonist will be able to have five hours, this will be his penny. Overtime, ladies and gentlemen, is for teachers. I remember when I was vice principal and the teacher was sick, I was filling in for the teacher, not typing it as a replacement. or as overtime. I think we should go back to that form of responsibility for the director and vice principal. The discussion was also, ladies and gentlemen, among others. It's about therapeutic classes. I remind you, there's an opening here again: 60 minutes, 45 minutes. No, 45 minutes for each of these forms. It's about justice, and it's about putting together a plan, and it's about letting the director really be free to choose this kind of work. I forgot to say - as I am on the matter of directors - that when it comes to non-public institutions, the law regulates the so-called case. chimneys, i.e. The director won't be able to make any kind of money. Unfortunately, it was very often the case that the head of a non-public facility had been earning for 20,000. PLN up to 50,000. zł. Yeah, that's very specific. Now it's going to be two and a half times what's in the system. It's public money. In the case of grants, we have the right to look at it in this way and to discipline it in such a way, when local governments with public money subsidize this type of facility. At the same time, we have finally dealt with the issue of child care, ladies and gentlemen, because, as you well know, the lack of clarity of the rules has resulted in two days of child care up to the age of 14 changing into 48 hours and teachers choosing any hours, completely disorganizing school work. It's just two days and it's over. It has to be defined in such a way, there is no longer any possibility of interpretation. Of course, we have also led you to this situation - and this is enshrined in the Teacher's Charter - that we are lowering the salary depending on how the working time of the disabled teacher is reduced. That's inclusive education, too. We give up slowly with the assistant teacher, this formula unfortunately did not work. The directors just had trouble getting an assistant to hire. We want to have every profession of every teacher named in our chart. At the same time, we have done something that employers and school heads are very much counting on where we are worried about the need to prepare additional jobs. Let me remind you that when we converted, we took care of 10,000. within 2 years. In the case of vocational school, we are faced with a situation where we have trouble finding a teacher. Hence the idea of starting a corps of professionals. The parole officers are about to begin recruiting. They are simply retired teachers of vocational schools who will support schools and employers, but at the same time in the Teacher's Charter we release, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the necessity of the labour market, salaries of the teacher of the profession. He will be able to earn any money - note - in the moment outside of the card we will introduce such regulations, according to which the employer will be able to contribute to his salary in order to support a teacher who educates in the profession needed in a particular industry. We also took care of the so-called. a Polish teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, the education system includes schools not only in Poland, but also around the world. For many years, teachers who taught in Polish schools abroad have actually been unable to pursue a career promotion because they could not achieve this magical half-time job. At the moment, these are people who do both, three times not only their job, but also their mission, who are responsible for education and identity building. Each of these teachers, regardless of the number of hours, will be able to advance professionally. It is also the case that the teacher who travels abroad teaches at school, actually doing outstanding things in the education of Polish children abroad, comes to the country and goes back to school and to the system as an intern teacher. This is absolutely unacceptable, Polish environments have been very keen on this. At the same time, we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about making changes in terms of professional promotion. This is actually the hardest part. In this regard, there is a very serious report from the Supreme Audit Chamber and there are very serious studies of the Educational Research Institute. Therefore, the most important changes, ladies and gentlemen, are these. We must bear this in mind, gentlemen, that young people will not be coming into the education system for long. We just have more than demographics. Therefore, when we talk about teacher education - we are talking about it because we are about to propose regulations for teacher training and a whole scheme for teacher training - we say: right now, expensive universities, concentrate on teacher training. We need in the system - and by 2019 we will do this - professional advisors, methodological advisors, educators to ensure safety at school, because every second school is a educator. We need to improve inclusive education and work on the basis of projects, because in public space, ladies and gentlemen, we lack what we have done on the basis of the programme. 20% the basics of each subject and each subject must be implemented on the basis of the project, because this is a need not only arising from the revolution 4.0 but also from normal interaction and co-ownership of the task entrusted. Therefore, we have decided, ladies and gentlemen, that we will make our own decisions in the education system about the trainee's teacher after a period of one year and nine months. It seems that the nine-month period is too short to test the skills. We're not talking about math, whether someone's a great mathematician or someone's a great physicist or a polonist. This is a secondary issue. The basic issue is how you do it, especially since the next generation comes to school, which we're not talking about at the moment. No, ladies and gentlemen, there's another generation coming to school every year, another group of children that we have to teach to operate among children with special needs. Just so we're clear, a child with special needs too. Therefore, we are talking about 1 year and 9 months and the exam, which will be attended not only by the director but also by the representative of the host body - the host body can decide that it will be a very specific person who can even hire to check the competence of the teacher - the teacher's representative and the representative from the list of experts. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be helping each other, because these are outstanding experts who work on a career promotion. Besides, it's also a simple calculation, like guarding public money. They're gonna be asked if they're gonna have to take this exam. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen, that also confirmed the research. Unfortunately, recent years have corrupted the professional improvement of teachers. I mean, in the sense that everyone thinks they can teach a teacher. As a result, most of the training did not meet the needs of either the school or the teacher. It's been a lot of different times, and we have a lot of knowledge about it. We have taken the first step already in the Education Law - all institutions that want to teach teachers must come for accreditation, they are 2 years old. And we're actually very careful about that. We encourage the Ministry of Science to show which universities will be leading when it comes to teaching and improving teachers. At the same time, we will propose, by paying the teacher, various forms of improvement, which I already mentioned when I mentioned that we need very specific training at a very high level. Therefore, I would ask you to also show this quality and watch the quality at school, in the education system, we said: 500+. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, of course I have been amazed at the popularity of this solution in the last few weeks, especially since the trade unions who invented it spoke about it. I mean, we did it in a band we've been working on since November, and I told you about it on April 30th at a press conference. What is this 500+? Ladies and gentlemen, because there was no agreement to look for some formula for an additional degree of promotion so as not to be bureaucratic again - I think we should work together, probably not today, to look at this bureaucracy at a career promotion - we thought it was worth motivating the teacher with a monthly supplement to his salary provided that we met very specific criteria. I think the unions at some committee meeting claimed that the draft regulation was not an annex to the bill. It is not because it will be updated, it is not new, therefore there will be normal statutory consultations, foreseen, we will speak. And I encourage you to have a good discussion, so that these are tangible, hard criteria, so that they don't disappear and really motivate the teacher. I hope that teachers will receive 500 zlotys per month for retirement, but unfortunately we say that we will verify it. I mean, he's not permanent. After another 3 years with this supplement, if the quality is not kept, this level will not be maintained... And we're gonna make sure all this happens at school. Doctorates in any field, sometimes hobbistically treated by a teacher, are of no interest to us at all. Only PhDs that are related to the environment, to the school, to education, to the field that the teacher is involved in. Of course, in this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have extended our professional promotion and introduced an evaluation of our work. This is the result of the Supreme Board of Control report, the absolute pressure of parents. At the same time, we also showed that we are trying to catch the most talented, those who care about quality. Professional promotion can always be reduced to up to 9 years. It's in the Teacher's Charter. The normal rhythm has been described, but there are reasons, there are reasons, there are criteria that show in which situations this promotion can be shortened. I'm sure there's a lot of discussion ahead of us. I only took a short summary, but I think I touched the most important elements, important for the teacher, for the parents, for the local government. I hope that, as we have the positive opinion of the committee of the common government and the local government after the work in committee, so after the work in Parliament, where I hope for a good, substantive work, we will be happy to vote on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u429	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm will listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to refer in a few minutes to a very important bill which the government has prepared and which the Minister has just presented. As a former self-government officer, I can say responsibly that the government's draft law on the financing of educational tasks, including changes in the way education is financed, is a document for which various educational actors, including local government units, have been waiting for 20 years. It is not possible to refer to many of the entries that are included in the Law edited in 147 articles, but it is worth highlighting some important changes. In the case of public schools, special education expenditure shall be excluded from administrative appropriations. This appropriation will be used to finance the special needs of disabled pupils. This is a response to the request made by school heads, local governments. I am convinced that this will greatly simplify the proper settlements, which everyone is calling for. In the WW. The draft law on the financing of educational tasks proposed a number of changes concerning the calculation of pre-school grants, grants for textbooks and grants granted from the budgets of local governments to pre-school education institutions, schools and educational institutions. Solutions have also been proposed regarding the financing of social assistance benefits. The project seals and organizes the education financing system. The grant from the state budget for the implementation of pre-school education will be calculated according to the host and registration body, not according to the location of the pre-school. The issue of the calculation of pre-school development grants has been raised several times by local authorities. The Act responds to further demands of school heads and local governments. Changes in the clearance and use of targeted grants have been proposed, so-called. a textbook grant. A very important element is the departure from the concept of a type of school in the calculation of grants for schools. The biggest problems of interpretation of local governments were the lack of a definition of the type of school, so instead of relying on school subsidies on the type of school, it was proposed to refer to the amount provided for in the education subsidy. Such a design will significantly simplify the system for determining the amount of grants, and eliminate the emerging uncertainties and discrepancies in the grant system. A definition of an increasing indicator will be introduced. This is necessary in the case of subsidised public schools to increase accordingly the amount for the pupil allocated to the education subsidy for the local government unit. The finalisation of social assistance benefits is another element introduced in this law. This is a very important change, because the amount of the scholarship to the student will no longer depend on the wealth of his community. So far, the amount of social aid was dependent on the contribution of the municipalities. The municipalities did not have the same percentage contribution as the wealthy ones. The introduction of a provision reducing own contribution for poorer municipalities will increase the possibility of granting scholarships and school benefits in these municipalities. It is difficult not to refer to the changes that appear in the Teachers' Law itself. Here the bill refers to the promotion of teachers. These are very expectations of change. There's a new addition for the outstanding work. I think it is extremely motivating, leading to the fact that the quality of this work will be very high. Of all these entries, I would like to emphasise something that is very important. The point is that teachers, whether they work in public schools or not, will be employed under a contract of employment. To conclude my statement, I would like to stress that Law and Justice will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much, Minister, for all the great work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Really, as I said at the beginning, we waited 20 years for this bill as self-government. You should have waited for Minister Zalewska to have the courage to undertake such difficult work. Minister, bravo! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u431	Thank you very much, Member, thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I will not do such a great card, although I would like to say that in fact some of the records you are proposing are in order. Chapeau bass, we're very happy about that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you. I hope it will be easier for everyone to interpret the written rules clearly. It's been a long time since it's been done. I'm so glad you guys did this. [[Voice from the hall: We have a good minister.]] Because in five minutes I can't tell you all the things you've come up with here, I'm gonna focus on two. The first thing is what really bothers us. First of all, how do you think that extending your career promotion from 10 to 15 years while maintaining the same criteria will affect the fact that teachers will be better, smarter, better at working, etc.? The first thing that comes to mind is that this extension of the promotion is saving money that teachers need to be paid at the various levels of promotion. And that's the first thing. The second thing that I really don't like here is that the state is still curating, so you give another competence to the man whom the Minister personally designates: when examining teachers, at these particular levels, with this assessment of work. Still a parole officer, someone who's gonna be appointed by the ministry on that list... [[Who's gonna do this?]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] ...someone who will be appointed as this examiner will have an impact on how this teacher will be promoted. This is insanely disturbing because you've done one thing so far: you've politicized the software base, e.g. in history, typing into your soul what you're playing. Now you're gonna judge the teacher like this: which one of these teachers is good, he's gonna work and he's gonna get your 500+, and who's not good, he's not gonna get 500+. And that's 500 plus it looks like if I'm reading it right, it's a dream, because it's so far down that it's too bad to say. But in 2020 this is your 500+ this is 95 PLN, in 2021 500+ is 206 PLN, and only in 2022 it could be 500 PLN, but - attention - for selected teachers. So the question is, what's the key, how is this going to happen, that a qualified teacher deserves to get 500 zlotys, or he doesn't deserve it. Depending on the probation officer's assessment of his work, we are absolutely very concerned. [[Who's gonna judge? Platform?]] [[The principal of the school.]] The whole bill looks like you're trying to find the money for the rise promised by the Minister in the same pot that you're still mixing, because you don't add much to the budget bill when it comes to education subsidies. In the meantime, if the Minister wanted to implement the 5% increase you had already announced in the next year, you would need about PLN 2 billion, and you did not add that PLN 2 billion. So I understand you're gonna delay this raise. She's already been promised since April 1st, ZNP reports to us that there's been a rumor that since May 1st, it's gonna come out over 2.5% together. That raise, not 5%, and that's disturbing. But there's another moment that bothers me immensely. There is a provision in this law that says that you are trying to arrange, in quotes, a system, stop paying teachers for a month and pay for a month. And that actually sounds logical. Why not, right? It's okay. Only that you are planning this country for 2019, from 1 January. The wording is precisely that the date of payment of the remuneration components, which before the date of entry into force of this Act were paid in advance to the teacher, shall be postponed to a later date each month, but the period from the date of payment of the previous remuneration paid in advance may not be longer than 34 days. So if we figure you're going to start moving that salary every 34 days, 10 months after 34 days, we're going to have 340 days of one year... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: You have not read.]] I read it, I read it very thoroughly. Therefore, it follows from this calculation, Minister, that in 2019 you will pay the teachers 11 salaries instead of 12. If that's not the case, I'm asking you kindly to explain it to us here, because for the time being, the records show that it's going to be absolutely 11 salaries. So from January to December, you'll make up for time so that last December you'll pay for December, which is basically logical, only now where's the 12th salary? If that's not the case, I'm asking for an explanation. I think it would have to be clarified, because it's miswritten. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if that's what I'm saying, we have, ladies and gentlemen, a law on the funding of educational tasks by teachers, because you're gonna hit them with one salary in 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, bullshit, bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u433	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u434	Dear Marshal, Minister! Me with a notebook, like school. The first three of my comments, Minister, maybe not to you. If we get a project that has almost 400 pages on Tuesday as a print and we process it on Thursday, that's it. It's just not serious. I know there's been all kinds of work, but we need to get to know the project. There is no BAS opinion, it is also very negative for me, and the negative opinion of the Legislative Council at the Council of Ministers. This opinion also relates to the fact that this project essentially mixes two things - apart from financing, there are still others. promotion - and, for example, there is no comprehensive regulation on subsidies, here the professor points out an investment grant. But in order for it not to be so bad, there are very positive things. The pre-school grant, announced of course and finally won, is indeed very good. Counted according to... [[Oh, dear, it's been since 2013.]] But according to the host body, it's a big change. Textbook grant - I obviously disagree, because sometimes it's used... [[Oh, my gosh, it's been...]] It is, it is, but, ladies and gentlemen, the textbook grant is socialist to me at all, but it's already, frankly, civilized in some way. But, but. But finally, I'm going to ask the Minister this question: can they finally buy school textbooks or parents' advice, or can they not? Because the opinion of many lawyers shows that it violates § 228 Penal Code. This is a normal economic activity and has so far been a ban. I understand something's changed. Besides, it gives rise to huge corruption, we all know how to buy directors, how all companies buy directors with grants. Granting from the budgets of self-government educational institutions, pre-schools, schools and educational institutions - indeed, the departure from the concept of various schools is very positive. Very positive is the increasing rate, it really realises the expenditure incurred by local government units. Next, a positive amount is, of course, the base amount. Finally, it is very positive to check that non-public schools on the basis of their presence have paid subsidies, only that is also a cause for abuse, because 50%... I suspect it'll be tampered with in some way. Very good solution, dependence of grants on the passability of the exam, a brilliant solution. What else? Of course, scholarships are positive. And here's what shouldn't have happened, and I'm moving on to what shouldn't have happened according to the Legislative Board on this project. Of course, I would move towards the elimination of the Teacher's Charter. I am a freeman and it must finally be said that the Teacher Card is not a document needed. I will go further, of course, Minister, I hope that someday, someday, we will see time that the education voucher will be introduced. Yeah, it's an education gift. I hope I'm gonna see it coming. Very positive mandatory assessments regarding the work of teachers, of course, with the extension of the promotion path. The promotion of teachers is complete fiction, please have no doubts. If you are teachers, you know perfectly well that this is a complete fiction, production of documents, just as Polish universities produce so-called. The shelves, that's how teachers create documents, paradocuments that you just throw in the trash. Indeed, this selection board is concerned because here it is: the pedagogical supervisor, the host body, the MEN expert, and I don't see parents, there is no such factor. My parents should judge teachers, too. I think it's pretty reasonable that parents' advice should be. I know you're all defending yourselves, teachers defending each other with their hands and legs so they don't get judged by their parents, and that would be a great verifier. [[What?]] Good, positive creation of finally one network of hours for teachers - very well, taking hours away from school heads - positive, holiday - positive, because indeed there have been situations quite strange. What else? It is worrying, again as a freeman, that the state is on another such path, Minister, that you include the Charter of a Non-Public School Teacher... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No, the Labour Code.]] Of course. This, on the other hand, causes us to enter into civil law agreements, and I believe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's wrong to call civil law contracts that are in the Civil Code. But we have to remember that. Of course, we are asking for a subcommittee and we will be happy to work with the Minister, because I am just working well with the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u435	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, I agree with the previous speakers that there is no doubt that a law is needed, because it cleans up, because it first of all closes the existing rules in one project in this regard. I regret to say that it was not possible at the last minute to submit a bill to the agenda to examine its records and the expected effects of the proposed solutions. Unfortunately, the daily practice of writing law on the knee is already scandalous. Presenting important laws just before the Sejm is not only disrespect for Members, but disrespect for the law and in this case - the importance of education, and therefore disregard for thousands of local governments, parents, teachers and students. The new rules on the settlement and use of textbook grants will give more freedom to heads of educational institutions in the process of providing pupils with textbooks, educational materials or training materials. In addition, they will make it easier for them to settle funding from grants. The proposed solutions for linking career promotion to the teacher's assessment of the teacher's work and making his speed dependent on the quality of the teacher's work will enable the award of outstanding teachers. The introduction of the applicable deadline for assessing the teacher's work has been linked to the career promotion path. The teacher's work will be judged mandatory after the end of the internship related to the next degree of promotion. In addition, from 2 to 3 years, the period of work required to start the traineeship will be extended to the degree of teacher appointed and from 1 to 4 years - the period of work required to start the traineeship to the degree of qualified teacher. These changes will lead to an extension of the teacher's career promotion path from 10 to 15 years. The Act also provides for the possibility of shortening it, which will depend on the assessment of work at a certain level. It's a good thing that there are motivational tools in place for teachers who have some experience. However, I do not see support in this project for well-promised teachers who unfortunately do not have this experience, and this is not an incentive for them to do so. The attractiveness of the 3% base amount is debatable because it is counted on the basis of remuneration rather than on the whole. In addition, this amount versus inflation is no longer so attractive. In view of the planned increases, while the lack of financial support from the local government, these 3% In fact, the supplement scans all motivational allowances for teachers. When this relates to the perspective of the next 5 years, it gives us a dozen percent and we have doubts about whether this will be implemented, because the local governments of this educational law unfortunately have been nailed down, and in this case I really think they might not be able to lift it. Both the dimension and the timing of the use of these leave by teachers working in management positions at school have been defined in the area of rest and health insurance. As in universities, the need to give the teacher a leave of absence for the treatment of health will be determined by a doctor of occupational medicine, not as before - a doctor of first contact, which I think is right. During the consultation, a number of comments were submitted which were not taken into account in the draft submitted. This applies e.g. employment of teachers in non-public schools with a very diverse number of teaching hours in the field of subjects. This issue requires further work due to the specificities of these facilities. I would like to point out that the Sejm Analysis Office did not have enough time to examine the law in depth, so we were not able to understand the consequences of the proposed solutions, and not just for local governments. The draft law proposes a good direction for changes to the Teacher's Charter, but these are too small changes. The Teacher's Charter is a solution that does not work today and requires profound changes. To sum up, the Education Finance Act is expected, it is needed, but introduced in such a hurry may contain many mistakes. Therefore, the modern announcements of amendments during the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u437	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u438	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position regarding the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks, print no. 1837. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Minister, there have been many praises. I'm going to call it a thing -- it's turning around with a Vistula bat. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] In short, we can define what PiS is doing today in the space of Polish education. Ladies and gentlemen, you've started with a deformity of education. You've eliminated junior high, and I'll remind you in a little bit... [[It's already been done.]] ...which your colleagues created. PSL was against middle school at the time, and today the middle school is going straight, and you're making a fuss again. Now you're starting to mess with finance... [[Voice from the room: But this is not the speech.]] ...and as it turns out, it's also messing with people's minds. [[With a stick.]] Minister! We seal and organize the education funding system - you say with a smile on your face. We are also reducing bureaucracy by creating a single document in which all legislation relating to educational finances will be included. Beautiful - you'd like to say, only no one believes you anymore. You're cutting red tape, spending millions to change stamps and plates. [[3%.]] Have you counted, my dear minister, how much does all this cost? Mr Kalet, I ask you very much to remain calm, you will have the opportunity. The diagnosis that the system is bad is a valid diagnosis. [[I'm not gonna get that chance again.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u439	Yeah, I'm joining the MP's request. If Mr Kalet could...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u440	Diagnosis that the system is bad is a valid diagnosis, which doesn't change the fact that you can't see a good... [[Now that you're a marshal...]] ...prescriptions to improve the situation. But it's not your fault either. You guys just aren't cut out for it. [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] Eight years -- that's all you've had to prepare for government. So? Nothing. You've wasted your time, and you can see it now. You're talking about money, and you're acting like you're getting water with a thrush. [[Have you read the bill?]] Yes. Yes, sir. No, 140 pages absolutely not, because a little late, ladies and gentlemen, you are presenting this project. Let me rephrase the question... [[With understanding?]] ...how much your good changes in Polish education cost. How many teachers will lose their jobs? [[That's not the speech.]] And today, ladies and gentlemen, you are trying to bullshit teachers and parents in the form of vague promises. You say 500+ for the teacher. However, you do not add that if already, in 2022 and not for all teachers, only for your own. Because it turns out that in order to receive a special allowance for qualified teachers, you will have to meet the strict conditions: have the title of a qualified teacher and get a distinctive grade of work. [[It's about quality in education.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Principals...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u441	Yes. I'll join you again. Excuse me, sir. I'll extend your time. I ask Members of the Law and Justice to allow you to present your position to the club. I think that's the minimum decency... [[But I'm good now.]] ...in view of the volume of the project and when it was notified.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u442	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Voice from the room: Let him respond to the project.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just responding. Here it turns out that in order to receive a special allowance for qualified teachers, you will have to meet the strict conditions: have the title of a qualified teacher and get a distinctive grade of work. Directors are to verify teacher assessments every 3 years. [[Not principals.]] Yeah, assessment, political evaluation, possibly. Moreover, the criteria that the teacher has to meet - let's add that there are more than 40 - do not have a general scoring system, which means that the same criteria in one school can give the teacher one point and another, for example. Five. This is ridiculous. But the worst thing about all of this is that the children, the students, will suffer the most on your shifts. Sorry that the PiS government with Minister Jurgel first took the children's milk and fruit from schools, and now it's taking something more important: the comfort of education. Finally, why, if you have, as you say, good intentions, do you not want to take up the subject of the proposal of the Polish People's Party? Apple. Thank you, Mr. Peter. [[Joy in the Chamber]] More water, please. A warm meal for each student, at least one hour per day English [[♪ The bell ♪]] and reducing the number of pupils in classes to 20 - this is a really good change, Minister. As you can see, you don't care about one like this. And at the end of the question to the Minister. If your education reform is so great, why aren't there more than 300 schools in Małopolska so far? Thank you very much. [[He ran us over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u443	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. [[One and a half. I've got an hour and a half ready.]] No, one minute. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor. Please don't exceed the question time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Education is one of the most important things for the Government of Law and Justice. We have carried out a reform which, contrary to the so-called black-and-white vision. total opposition did not lead to any disaster or fire of teachers. [[Don't get hysterical.]] The proposed law organises and details expenditure on the financing of educational tasks. There's a lot of that, so I'm just gonna pay attention to a few. Clarifying the way in which local self-government units provide support to artistic schools, institutions run by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Until now, there was no legal basis for spending by the local government. Changes in the amount of the municipality's own contribution to the provision of material aid. This contribution poses a problem for poor municipalities so that they do not use the entire amount of the grant for material aid. The project depends on the amount of the municipality's own contribution on its financial position. The proposed mechanism for granting grants to finance material aid grants will increase the possibility of granting scholarships and school benefits in poor and medium-sized municipalities, and it should be stressed that this will not be at the expense of municipalities [[♪ The bell ♪]] wealthy people whose situation doesn't change. Will the proposed changes have a positive impact on the functioning of the education system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u445	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u446	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you told us a lot during the so-called. education reform that everything will be okay. You assured us that it would be a great success of Law and Justice, that no teacher would lose his job, that there would be no reduction in the number of jobs, that everything would be great when it comes to schools. Today, at the meeting of the Education Committee, on which you were not, unfortunately, I told you how it looks in practice, how difficult situations are for parents, for children, for teachers. Now you assure us that there will be increases for teachers. But you forget to tell me how much, what percentage of this basic amount of the state in the foggy future you want to spend on these increases. Because if it is 3% of the base amount in 2020, it will be only 95 PLN per job. After that... That's what Minister Augustine was talking about. But there's one thing I want to say. Minister, are you really able to provide teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That it wouldn't be to the detriment of them, when politically their promotion and the fact that they would be able to get these funds will be judged by the education curator? Because I just don't believe it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u447	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For almost two years, we as Members of the Law and Justice have become accustomed to the fact that the better it is in Poland, the worse it is for you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Oh...]] That's worse for you. And this situation sometimes just takes your mind off things. [[You.]] Minister, I have a question. Is it true that under the new law, the financing of material benefits will no longer depend on the wealth of the municipality and after the law, the chances of obtaining a scholarship will be uniform for all pupils regardless of the level of finance in the municipality concerned? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u449	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u450	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, my question concerns Art. 76, which added point 10a concerning the recruitment of teachers on the basis of a coded employment contract. I think that's what the minister said about full-time. On the other hand, non-public schools in the by-the-eye system employ teachers for a contract or as part of their business activity today due to a small number of hours. The reason is obvious, there is no such range of hours, that is also the expectation of teachers, because for them it is often an additional job. A similar situation occurs in the primary school for adults. This, of course, leads to curiosities. Therefore, I would very much ask you to answer specific questions: How do I hire teachers who spend 20 hours in the semester, that is 0.025 jobs? For what part of the job, for which period to hire a teacher who will teach only one class in a given semester, [[♪ The bell ♪]] One item in the number of 20 hours, but only for two months? Is the Ministry planning, preparing a revision of the rules in this area so that, on an exceptional basis, when such cases occur, teachers can be hired to a different extent? This, of course, is related to the opening of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u451	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u452	...for the possibility of learning for adults.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u453	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u454	I would very much ask for a written reply, because I understand now that there might be trouble. Thank you very much. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: None.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u455	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The environment is very negatively affected by the non-public education provision on the change in subsidies from local authorities to adult schools. The existence of such schools is socially essential. The proposed records shall make the receipt of part of the grant to schools in which the school or study obligation is not complied with subject to the examination given by the pupils. This is a prom exam or proof of professional qualifications. That means that part of the grant will be paid only after the examination equals the amount provided for such a pupil in the educational part of the general subsidy, provided that the person conducting the school document the opinion of the examination. The unequal treatment of public and non-public schools is unfair. Public schools receive grants regardless of their examinations. Reasons for this low-skill record [[♪ The bell ♪]] in these schools, it should not change the way they are financed, but look for other ways to improve the performance of teaching and improve the efficiency of examinations, for example by introducing supervision. Minister, is there any chance of changing this record? Thank you very much. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Please propose solutions in committee.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u458	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government draft law on the financing of educational tasks is a document for which various entities have been waiting for years to carry out educational tasks, including local government units. I am pleased that new measures have also been proposed to finance social material assistance services. Minister, whether these new solutions give opportunities to schools, especially small towns in rural areas, and whether they give better access to cash benefits, mainly scholarships [[♪ The bell ♪]] for children with less-replaced families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have to admit, in my town, everyone... actually in the local government was very pleased when they found out that the Minister wanted to seal up a leak of huge money in private schools, those in which the school obligation is not fulfilled. So far, it has been the case that in police schools, listeners were enrolled massly for the first year, then hearing about them was lost, and the owner was getting a lot of money. My city often carried out checks, wanted to seal it, but unfortunately it didn't have any effect. I'm very happy for you and the locals from my town that the Minister has taken the lead on this. I wanted to ask if, as far as the proposed solutions are concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indeed, local governments will be calm now that this money will not run away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u461	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed changes are certainly going in the right direction. This includes: those records which specify the weekly mandatory time limits for teachers, speech counselors, psychologists or career advisors. So far there have been paradoxical situations when in one city educators employed in schools run by various authorities: either the county or the municipality, they worked in one 20 hours, and in the other 30 hours, which caused understandable dissatisfaction to those who worked longer. I have a question about another group of teachers conducting educational activities, employed in practical training centres. They raise the following question: they feel victimized because they work 22 hours, and their working time is 55 minutes. Whether the changes made will align their situation with the situation of teachers of vocational subjects with 18 lesson hours, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But 45 minutes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the financing of educational tasks concerns, in addition to ordering up-to-date solutions for introducing new, so much needed, expected and fair. Minister! I want to thank you very much for continuing a good change in Polish school. Thank you very much. At the same time, I ask the question whether it is true that the law responds to the demands of directors, local government officials, among others. on the revision of the accounting for the use of the targeted grant, so-called It's a textbook. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u465	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u466	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! One of the good and expected by teachers of the solutions proposed in the draft law is the important regulation: standardizing the mandatory weekly hours of classes for teachers, speech counselors, psychologists, professional advisors and pedagogical therapists working in schools. So far these specialists they implemented various hourly salaries in different municipalities according to the resolutions adopted there. Minister! What agreement ended negotiations with local governments and trade unions on the salary of specialists working in psychology and pedagogical clinics? Thank you again for introducing this solution. It is an expression of respect for teachers and specialists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u467	Thank you. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Paraphrasing the famous opinion of the Prime Minister, I will say: for 8 years the government of the PO-PSL coalition has systematically received an increase in salaries. The PiS, of course, also promises an increase in salaries... [[Yes, yes, Minister.]] ...but let's think about how. For the first fire, of course, you will eliminate the privileges of teachers, then you will extend the promotion time, thousands of teachers will be fired from schools, and then you will be given some kind of raise. Not like this, Minister, a Polish school is being built. First you've destroyed a well-functioning education system, now you're turning teachers into students who accumulate their achievements for years to achieve another degree of promotion. You are stripping this professional group of its rights and dignity. Minister! It's not a method for a good school in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] The teacher is an authority and guide for young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u469	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that today's draft law on the financing of educational tasks is the best proof that Law and Justice are listening to the social voice. Many of the solutions emerged during the debates, have been demands for many years submitted to the Ministry of Education. Minister! I am particularly close to vocational training. In 2019 we will have to mobilise the system to adopt a larger population of students. Thank you very much for the compensation solution for the specialists that the school needs, who are in the economy and ready to work for education. Today there were also questions from employers whether there would be changes in the qualification requirements for this group of specialists' practitioners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u471	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A typical way for you to implement the law on the financing of educational tasks, except that in this law on the financing of educational tasks, two articles concern educational subsidies, and the rest are grants and the most important thing... [[I mean, it's funding.]] ...a change of the Teacher's Card. Why is the Minister lying from the Parliamentary Speaker saying that these changes are agreed with the trade unions since, yesterday, at the meeting of the Education Committee, the trade unions protested against these statements, clearly demanding that this passage be removed from the bill? Minister, you have to have the courage to say that the project is that you want to change this card against trade unions. And I wanted to tell you that this is not the first time that the government has met with trade unions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the first time, the government met with the trade unions in 2008 or 2009, when I was Secretary of State and invited them to this meeting. [[So what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u473	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u474	And when I was Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u475	Madame, that is no longer a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u476	...we held a joint press conference...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u477	Time's up. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u478	...on changes to the Teacher's Charter. [[Applause]] [[And you didn't bring any in. You've been talking for four years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u479	Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor. [[The Minister is lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am so lucky to always speak for Mrs Shumilas and I have to calm down a little bit. Thank you very much to the Minister and the entire team for this bill, because it was really expected and by the local government, and also by teachers. There's a lot of changes there that just sort things out and simplify a lot of things. A very important change concerns teachers. I meet with teachers, many of them work in schools run by local government, they are employed according to the principles of the Teacher's Charter. It is different for another large group of teachers. This is not because of their fault, because local governments, through poor funding of education under the governments of their predecessors, simply eliminated institutions or changed the structure of education and there teachers were simply forced to work under the Labour Code. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Will self-employed teachers or self-employed teachers also apply to employment contracts in private schools?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u481	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The long-term process of liquidation of schools in Warsaw and Mazowsze by local authorities certainly did not make it easier for them to carry out the reform. Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify the criteria for the payment of the incentive allowance. Will the existing rules be respected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u483	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u484	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think that when teachers read this law carefully, they won't be as thrilled as you are here. When they read well what raises they're going to get and what they're going to get out of, they're going to see that the Minister, without a penny more in the education grant, wants to make these raises, and first he promises 5%. , then shifts it over time, it will no longer be 5% from January 1 as announced publicly. But this isn't the first time you've said publicly that you won't fire teachers, that you won't close schools, etc., we're used to it. However, when teachers actually get what they're about to get, and especially severe for them will be 2019 when they're extinguished... [[They're gonna get it, they're gonna get it.]] ...the high school and the last group of teachers then, the biggest, will be fired, and when they realize that in 2019 those raises they're about to get aren't that big and in addition you're gonna hit them with one salary from 2019, and in addition, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, they're gonna know they're gonna get those raises, that's your so-called one. 500 plus, only those who you think deserve it... It's just the segregation of teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u485	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u486	Don't count on enthusiasm here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u487	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me start with the question: Were the proposed provisions concerning the change in the professional promotion of teachers, the Minister, dictated solely by the concern for better preparation, especially here I will deal with the teacher with the next degree of professional promotion, the trainee teacher? The professional development procedure for teachers does not fulfil its role. She was supposed to promote the best educators, and in the meantime, they will be promoted automatically. This is a motion, ladies and gentlemen, from the Supreme Auditorium's report. The current government and the minister listen to the voices of those who have valuable clues... [[Especially teachers.]] ...confirming and remembering that the profession of teacher is a profession public confidence [[♪ The bell ♪]] and should be given special care by the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's why you cheat teachers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u489	Thank you. Mr Lech Szbek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister from the Platform's shadow office has expressed her concern three times over two days. as regards the fate of the salary increase for teachers, claiming that it is not covered because the amount of the education part of the general subsidy increases to a small extent. Indeed, in the draft budget, the amount of subsidies increases to a relatively small extent, but is it true, Minister, that there is a special reserve No 81, in which there is more than PLN 1 billion just to cover the consequences... [[That's what we know, we know.]] ...a raise? And shouldn't it be appropriate for the Minister in the shadows' office to... [[You're gonna need $2 billion for a raise.]] ...he studied more carefully the draft budget bill? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You need $2 billion for a raise like this, and you're already cheating for a few thousand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u491	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, the question to the Minister: Where did it come from that trade unions had not spoken to local governments before? As I understand it, this bill shows that there are areas where they can communicate. Why weren't these kinds of conversations for the predecessors and what it was? Is it working today? [[That's not true.]] The second element - it is clearly said to free teachers' wages. Will there also be any changes in qualifications? Here, on the one hand, there are employers' hopes and, on the other hand, concerns about what qualifications these people should have, whether they will be completely exempt e.g. from the obligation of some kind of pedagogical preparation. I think it's worth the doubt here. And the last piece. Initially, the law was intended to cover a much broader scope, including education subsidies and teacher remuneration. What shows that today this law covers only this narrow scope? Is that just because there was no agreement between the two sides of the dialogue? When we can possibly expect the rest of it [[♪ The bell ♪]] These educational assignments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u493	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u494	Thank you, Marshal. Question to the Minister: Are you providing support for local governments? Because there's no information in the project. If so, what is it? Don't you think that, in the absence of adequate financial security, the local government can run away from the teachers' incentive allowance? One more thing. The school principal can only fire teachers in May, and there is no release of staff movement. Will the Ministry seek to market the principles of the teacher's work fairly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u495	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u496	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of non-public schools appeared in the questions of my previous speakers, while I would like to ask... Because, in fact, the problem of non-public schools with the powers of public schools for adults, mainly in the by-the-eye system, appears to be the provision of Chapter 11 of Article. 76. Specificity of running a school in the by-the-eye system, i.e. Saturdays and Sundays every 2 weeks exclude, for the vast majority of teachers, the possibility of employment on the basis of a contract of employment because they cannot meet the conditions of such an agreement because they cannot provide work on a continuous basis. For what part of the job, Minister, and for how long to hire a teacher who will lead in a given semester in one group one subject in the number of 20 hours? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u497	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for meeting me, for talking to me. Indeed, most of the speeches touched the substance. I think we're still gonna discuss it on the committees. But of course there are some manipulations, inaccuracies that need to be explained, because our meeting is being recorded, and in addition it will probably be listened to. What many people from the total opposition tells - that something is not kept, that it is some vision that it is not assured - is a lie. [[Like the fact that teachers aren't fired.]] First of all, everything was designed, included in the bill. There's a justification, there's a so-called. OSR, which means we're counting the financial consequences. In addition, tomorrow we will have a draft budget bill, which we will also be working on. We'll be able to give you extra money to raise teachers. I also want to remind you that we have more than demographics. Especially those who have taught math must, on such a very simple example... Maybe I can explain it again. If we have a family that consists of such a basic number of children, two children, and a family that has eight children and has the same amount to spend, then the amount spent on one child is different in a family with two children and in a family with five or eight children. This is the case when it comes to demographics and educational subsidies. I remind you, we share an educational donation. If we divide the educational subsidy, then the number of children is in the denominator. If the denominator decreases, the amount and the number increases. Mathematics at primary level. [[The denominator continued to decrease and the amount increased. First time...]] Now, as to what one of your messengers was talking about, let me remind you that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u499	Mrs Shumilas, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u500	...we've talked here about how there's been a raise for eight years. The last one was, I remind you... [[But that was 50% in total, Member.]] ...in 2012, when it was just introduced... [[50%!]] ...card hours - free slave hours for teachers - and local governments had to pay this increase in subsidies. They even discussed going to the Constitutional Court. [[14 billion more in eight years.]] About... It's a result of a career promotion. You know why Mr. Handke resigned. As far as all these increases and allowances are concerned, I would like to remind you: 5% raises since April 1st... [[It's supposed to be from January.]] ...for 3 years - 15% . This will be included in the budget bill. [[Give me what we gave. Give me the same amount in the first four years.]] At the same time until 2022 - 16% For a diplomat actually the best, outstanding, and it has nothing to do with scandalous words about segregation. It's motivation and it's maintaining quality. [[Who's gonna judge that?]] I want the former Minister to remind you that when it comes to professional promotion, there's always been a probation officer there. It hasn't changed. That's what the Teacher's Card looks like. So we're not introducing a parole officer. As far as salary and salary from the bottom are concerned, the teaching profession is the only profession where this salary is paid from the top, not from the bottom, and overtime is paid differently. It's a big problem for the school principal. This is above all a problem for local government officials, because the financial year is governed by completely different laws. So, let me ask you very precisely - that I will present a schedule because we cannot, please, allow a lie, that someone will pay someone a salary. January 3rd, Tuesday... Thursday - i.e. 33 days from the date of payment of the previous salary, 5 February, Tuesday - 33 days, we are talking about 2019, 8 March, Friday - 31 days, 10 April, Wednesday - 33 days. I remind you... But that's what I'm gonna say at the end. 13 May, Monday - 33 days, 14 June, Friday - 32 days, 17 July, Wednesday - 33 days, 19 August, Monday - 33 days, 20 September, Friday - 32 days, 24 October, Thursday - 34 days, 27 November, Wednesday - 34 days, 31 December, Tuesday - 34 days. 12 salaries. Attention, 13 paid by the end of March, in accordance with the Act. Please note that in July you paid your leave. If we don't get along with the article. 30a and 30b between trade unions and local government, it will still be called. Fourteen, teachers don't like it, that's equalization. I think I've done a very precise calculation. [[And how much will they get in 2018?]] In 2018, as you have noticed, this is the same. Minister, calm down. It was a question, ma'am, that it was written on the knee, but this was said by the Member who was late. I've been very clear that we've been working as a team since November. Not at a press conference, not at a one-night stand. Since November we have been working systematically in a team with local governments, trade unions, experts from the Ministry of Education. Together, we have decided that it will be a team that will work at least until 2019, certainly during this term of office, so that the next stages of these expected changes can take place as a result of the discussion. Therefore, this law is common. Absolutely, Commissioner, it is not written on its knees, like any law written for my term of office in the Ministry of Education. Each one is disbanded, planned and counted. [[Especially the Law of Education.]] At the same time, you are asking about the promising new teachers, showing this combination of 16% for a diplomat. I would like to remind you that all other allowances, including the incentive allowance, remain unchanged, so it is possible to motivate this young teacher as much as possible. Although I am surprised at your concern, because you are opposed to the Teacher's Charter. I would like to remind you that during the election campaign you made this state clear, on National Education Day. I won't forget it because it happened in my beloved Świdnica, in my district. There's no security on the local government. Yeah, it's actually a word that's repeated without specifics. Firstly, this grant law perfectly secures the finances of local governments, because it does not allow uncontrolled leakage of them. It's a seal. They'll get a lot of money out of it. We'll check with them after the bill comes into force, what profit it's going to be. I would like to remind you that in connection with the transformations it will be almost PLN 1.5 billion for a six-year-old who is studying in kindergarten. This is an educational subsidy for municipalities that are not towns on the rights of the county. [[But you didn't increase the subsidy. Self-governments got the same amount.]] Therefore, for those municipalities which are not on the rights of the county, this is an additional yearbook which will compensate them for the converted junior high school. [[Manipulation.]] However, in those on the rights of the county it is forever an additional year. PLN 418 million for the valorization of teachers' salaries for 3 years, over PLN 900 million directly into additional branches, for additional posts. [[It's all in the same amount.]] I would like to remind you that within two years of the transformation, there will be 10,000. new jobs. The numbers are absolute. The recipe is unambiguous. That's what the money's for. I also remind you that there are extra hours. One additional hour in the education system is 1,100 jobs. I think you are aware of the division of roles in terms of funding between government and state budget, i.e. education subsidy. So it is written in the law that the local government, thanks to the fact that it has a share in taxes, among others. in the PIT tax, and it is very large, it is to perform a specific task that it performs. In addition to conducting education policy, it is taking care of all investments, school equipment, warm water in the tap. Therefore, I think that we and our parents should work together to make these schools look like they should look in the 21st century. [[That's why they're learning to change.]] But of course, ladies and gentlemen, because we want to finance and support local governments, I would like to remind you that a law on broadband Internet was adopted at the Council of Ministers meeting. It's a huge expense for local governments. By 2019, every educational institution will have broadband Internet over 100 mega. So far, because you probably don't know that, that's 20%. schools, after a lot of spending on digital school. That's one thing. Secondly, because I am very proud of this law, just like Minister Streżyńska, the whole government made sure that it was in this shape. The school will be equipped in the sense that the Internet will be distributed there. We will not tell local governments and schools: we have provided you with broadband Internet and therefore please do so yourself. Besides, for 10 years in all schools, the Internet, ladies and gentlemen, will be free. I also remind you that we have launched almost PLN 300 million on the so-called. active plate. This is very popular because we cannot talk about the skills of a teacher using IT technologies if he simply doesn't have the equipment. Media boards, ladies and gentlemen, will be in each class within two years, despite the fact that the equipment is a duty of the local government. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, for 17 years building middle school 25% He's got natural offices. Therefore, we invited Copernicus Science Centre, which is currently designing such universal natural offices, not to mention that it is a duty of self-government. As of January 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) - Maybe since February or March - we will launch a government program announced also at a press conference called the Laboratory. At the same time, I would like to tell you that every member of the government, among others, is very concerned about this. Minister for Sport. 2/3 of the money that is spent on sports infrastructure is money invested in school. I don't know if you're aware, but in the 21st century, only 60% of schools have gymnasiums. More than 400 investments started in the last two years. Therefore, we are also talking about financing together with local governments. The local government wasn't ready for any further change. They said it would be the next stage. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a few statements from the PSL representative here, and I have a little feeling that there is another law, but I hope that we will be working in committees and we will already refer to individual records. On the other hand, the representative of PSL, ladies and gentlemen, raises issues such as English, warm meals, small classes. First of all, the small classes are here. The law of education and transformation led to the fact that we have small classes. We don't have it at the level of general education high school yet, but this is the result of the accumulation of yearbooks and counting student subsidies, not the department. It is also a matter of our talks, but also of funding that will mobilize local government officials in large cities to stop teaching in high school until hours. 18 and so the class doesn't count 40 people. On the other hand, as far as primary schools are concerned and secondary education is being transformed, there are 19 people on average. These are small classes. So it's already been realized, it's being realized. Therefore, among others. We've banned class reunification. It's a warm meal, isn't it? Since 2018/2019 we will be working together with you on system solutions. English is first class... [[We did.]] So I don't understand how you didn't notice what was in the system. Here we talked about disqualifying adult, non-public and public schools. No, the same rules apply in public schools as in non-public schools. As regards allowances for the best qualified teachers, in addition to these 16% all other allowances shall remain. Parents' advice is always consulted when assessing teachers. The teacher doesn't judge the probation officer, the principal does, and I'm just quoting from the regulations. As far as the Labour Code is concerned, we will insist here, because the Labour Code in non-public establishments or run by other bodies or by other entities is, please, above all, a benefit for the employee. Let us really start respecting the employee, especially the teacher. First of all, he's entitled to a vacation. This country, without reacting to the demographics, led to the fact that 100,000. There are no teachers in one school. [[It's a lie.]] This is the data from the educational information system. So, as far as the benefits to the employee are concerned, ladies and gentlemen... [[What $100,000? Where did you get this?]] Mr. Marshal, I ask you to discipline... [[Don't miss the truth, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u501	Okay, Minister, one second. If I may, I would very much ask Mr Shumilas and Mr Augustine not to shout. That doesn't bring anything to the discussion... [[Great.]] ...instead of saying so, it shows the citizens that the Sejm does not deserve how much citizens spend on it. [[We ask the Minister to tell the truth.]] [[The voice from the hall: Kara, there is no other way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u502	Thank you very much to the marshal. So let me remind you of the benefits for an employee under the Labour Code, i.e. entitlement to holiday leave, to social benefits, to pension contributions, to sickness insurance contributions, to accident insurance contributions, to improvement, to the Minister's prize and to promotion. Employment under the employment contract guarantees the safety of children and young people, because both the Teacher Charter Act, the Education System Act and the Education Law oblige teachers and non-teachers employed to conduct classes - here quote - they have not been convicted of a criminal offence or tax offence and are not subject to criminal proceedings in a case of intentional criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecution or disciplinary action. In addition, they are required to have full legal capacity and to exercise public rights, not to be convicted of a final judgment or to be legally punished by disciplinary punishment. These are just quotes from the bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on interesting discussions in committees, and I hope that there will be an exchange of experience, hard facts and numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u503	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks. The aim of the proposed law is to create a coherent set of rules on the financing of educational tasks. In the current legislation, we have often encountered interpretation problems and many ambiguities. I find the need to amend the rules undisputed. The bill provides for the introduction of e.g. clear rules on the calculation of grants from the state budget for the financing of pre-school education tasks for local government units and simplification of the way grants are cleared, as well as changes in the financing of free textbooks, educational materials and training. In addition, part of the grants in adult schools are planned to be dependent on passing exams and vocational examinations. The grant is to be paid for the actual number of pupils. If a student uses two different schools of preschool education or adult education, only one of these schools will receive a grant. It is important to change the financing of material social benefits, to make the contribution of the municipality in this respect dependent on its financial condition - municipalities with low income ratios, would have to add 5% , and municipalities with an average income ratio of 10% instead of the current 20%. The reduction of the aid from the municipalities' own resources will increase access to this form of support and is therefore worthy of support. In view of demographic and economic changes, the regulations in force in the Act of 26 January 1982 are obsolete and do not conform to present times. I think it is right to update the rules that will respond to the challenges that teachers face now. The draft law provides for, among others, changes in teachers' leave, promotion and evaluation of their work, working time, as well as changes in salaries. With regard to changes in the career promotion path, it should be stressed that extending the promotion time from 10 years to 15 will improve the competences of teachers. In my opinion, it is also a good solution proposed by the projectors to replace the interview with an intern with an examination carried out by an examination panel, which will consist of persons from outside the primary school environment, e.g. representatives of pedagogical supervisors. The introduction of a new salary allowance for outstanding work in my opinion will undoubtedly affect teachers who have achieved the highest professional degree and, most importantly, will raise the level of teaching. Introduced by the proposed mandatory law, cyclical evaluation of the teacher's work in my opinion will be reflected in the quality of the work rendered. It will also have a positive impact on cost rationalisation. I realize, of course, that not all changes are perfect and certainly not everyone will respond. However, we cannot tolerate old, bad solutions. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u505	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks, contained in print No 1837, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 42 hrs. 21 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on bailiffs and executions (Prints 1840 and 1846). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the law amending the law on bailiffs and executions. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 27 September 2017, decided to recommend the adoption of all three amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u507	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Waldemar Buda again from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the law on bailiffs and executions. The amendments tabled by the Senate are more precise, you can say. These are three amendments. One of them sets a time limit by which the bailiff should call... in which the debtor can voluntarily empty the premises and therefore not pay the fee associated with the eviction and bailiff's proceedings. It shall also be indicated that, in the case of voluntary eviction at least 3 days before the planned eviction, the fee will be reduced to 1/10 and the technical basis for the settlement of the bailiff from previously collected fees with the creditor and the debtor, where the fee is charged on the basis of the old rules but after 22 October 2015, i.e. after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Law and Justice Club supports the Senate's amendments and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u509	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the Senate resolution on the Act amending the law on judicial bailiffs and executions. After considering the law adopted by the Sejm, the Senate introduced three amendments to its text. In Amendment 1, the Senate clarified that the time limit set by the bailiff to the debtor for voluntary performance of the obligation may not be less than 14 days. This amendment is correct, as cases mainly involve evictions, which require time for their execution, and the debtor must have that time guaranteed. It is also necessary to agree with the amendment concerning the setting of a lower fee in the event of the debtor's voluntary performance of the obligation after the specified deadline, but not later than 3 days before the planned execution. In the third amendment, the Senate proposed solutions to simplify settlements in the event of the creditor's payment of a fixed fee in line with the current rules. In conclusion, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the amendments made by the Senate and will vote in favour of them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u511	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. The Kukiz Club15 does not comment on the Senate amendments. Of course we accept them, we vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u513	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk presented his position in writing. There are no Members to vote. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the Senate committee on the bill amending the law on bailiffs and executions. This project is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 on the rate of the flat emptying fee. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that one of the provisions of the 1997 Act is non-constitutional in so far as it does not provide for a separate fixed fee for the removal of the dwelling from the property and persons in a situation where the debtor, after being called by the bailiff, has voluntarily fulfilled his obligation within the prescribed time limit. Having regard to the abovementioned ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the authors of the draft proposal propose to introduce a temporary fee to the institution against the fee payable for the execution of non-monetary benefits and the execution of the provision for the provision to provide collateral for non-monetary claims and to amend the wording of those provisions which relate to the amount of fees incurred in connection with the execution of the collection of property, the introduction of property and the removal of movable property from it, the introduction of the manager to the management board of the property or of the undertaking and the introduction of the caretaker into the supervision of the property, the emptying of the premises of the property or persons or, finally, the introduction of the creditor into possession in other cases than those mentioned above. After the amendment, unlike today, the initiation of the enforcement of non-monetary benefits will not be subject to payment by the creditor of the full fixed fee, but to a provisional fee of 10%. average monthly salary. At the same time, the final fixed fees charged for the enforcement of non-monetary benefits are to be reduced to 20% average monthly salary for execution of pick-up (currently 50% - Art. 50 U.K.S.E.) and execution of the introduction of real estate and removal of movable property, the introduction of the manager to the management of the real estate or the undertaking, or the introduction of the caretaker into the supervision of the property and the removal of the premises from the property or persons (today it is 40% ) and up to 15% respectively in other cases where it is necessary to bring the creditor into possession. Thus, the fees described are intended to make applicants more adequate in the context of the current socio-economic situation. In doing so, it was proposed that the fees due should be reduced up to 1/25 of the average monthly salary or that the obligation to cover them in full should the debtor decide to carry out the obligation voluntarily (depending on whether he will do so after the bailiff has called on him to comply with the implementing title or before he has been served with such a call). In such a situation, the bailiff will be required to repay the appropriate amount to the creditor. A number of amendments have recently been tabled to the Senate project. The House took the view that a lower charge on the debtor (in fact, a 10% interim charge) the average monthly salary) shall be reasonable provided that the obligation established by the implementing title is fulfilled no later than 3 days before the planned execution. It is worth mentioning that a provision similar to that referred to here, which constitutes the matter of Amendment 2, can be found in Article. 38 of the proposed bill on bail-out costs, Parliamentary printing No. 1581. It is further specified on the basis of the following article. 49b. 3 that the time limit which the bailiff assigns to the debtor for the voluntary performance of the obligation may not be less than 14 days. The introduction of such a reservation should prevent the practice of establishing several days' time limits, i.e. unrealistic, while the mere execution of bailiffs usually plan after a period of several months. Another of the amendments proposed by the Senate aims at simplifying the accounts in the event of the creditor's payment of the fixed fee in accordance with the current rules. In the view of the Senate, where by 22 October 2015 (date of notification of the judgment of 13 October 2015), a final decision on the costs of execution was not implemented and within the time limit laid down in Article. 2 (2) 5 The law will be requested to determine these costs taking into account the availability of the article. 49b. 3, the bailiff should return to the creditor the difference between the fixed fee paid by him and the fee payable under the new rules and, if the debtor has already returned the equivalent of the fixed fee or part of it to the creditor, the relevant settlement should take place with the debtor. High Izbo, this project, along with the Senate's amendments, deserves support. Today, the need to redefine the issue of bail-in fees is evident. The project responds to social expectations in this area. In our view, Senator Lydia Staroń's efforts supported by the two Houses of Parliament should find a realization so that there is less social controversy in our country with bailiffs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u515	Unless Mr Buda still wants to speak? Thank you, sir. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement (Prints No. 1841 and 1860). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the Act amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Act on Public Procurement, decided to introduce one amendment to its text, which provides for an increase of the number of posts for professional soldiers to 150 thousand. The Senate found that the entire Armed Forces had increased to 200,000. soldiers will be required to increase the number of professional soldiers, which may result in a limit of 130 000 accepted by the Sejm. He'll be too short. In order to prevent and guarantee the right flexibility, this limit was raised to 150,000 in the Senate. professional soldiers. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The National Defence Commission considered the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Technical Modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Law on Public Procurement at the meeting on 27 September. The Committee on National Defence recommends the adoption of the Senate amendment by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u517	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u518	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly, because, in principle, my speech was consummated by the rapporteur's speech. The Law and Justice Club fully supports this amendment. There is nothing more valuable, nothing more important than the security of our country, which must be reflected also in the fact that they must increase their military expenditures, must increase the number of troops, good troops. We are going in the right direction, and this amendment is also moving in this direction. Therefore, I have nothing left to recommend, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, the adoption of this amendment, which is an amendment of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u519	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment introduced by the Senate Law and Justice withdraws from its decision taken two weeks ago, as a result of which you reduced the number of the Armed Forces. This decision you made two weeks ago only lasted this test of time. You could say better late than never. But it's not good. It's not good because you've been waiting... [[It's very good.]] Yes, two weeks ago, you voted in favour of reducing the armed forces' numbers, today you vote in favour of increasing the armed forces' numbers. If such emotional stability is shown by the government, then thank you for such a government. [[You're welcome.]] I mean, that's the picture of this parliamentary majority. There is nothing to laugh at, Mr President, because you voted two weeks ago in favour of reducing numbers, and today you are withdrawing from this vote. You could say this: four times we told you not to reduce the numbers of the Armed Forces. You did it. And you know why? Do you know why they've been reducing this number of Armed Forces? That's because there wasn't a bumago from the Ministry of National Defense, not to reduce it. The whole parliamentary majority, all Members of this party, do not have their own opinion on this subject if they do not have paper from the Ministry of National Defence. That's the picture of this government majority. [[Applause]] [[You'll support the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u521	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we can discuss this right amendment with such a wide range of people. Mr President, there is nothing to be nervous about. They've made up their mind, and they've made up their mind, so everything's okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u523	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Cyranski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment proposed by the Senate guaranteeing an increase in the number of professional soldiers to 150 000. is a proof of the lack of competence and the unscathedness of the Ministry of National Defence. At the previous meeting of the Sejm in this speaker, Minister Kownacki argued to us that the project was well-designed and in the current financial situation we cannot afford 150,000 in practice. professional soldiers, because it will slow down in a real way the modernization of the Polish army, and the expenses that were to be spent on it, will - I quote - be consumed by salaries. The Senate accepted in its justification that the limit of 130 thousand was adopted by the Sejm. is too low and we need more professional soldiers, that is, more personal expenditure. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence, the Minister was no longer so firm and appreciated the work of the Senate, thus undermining, in my opinion, his previous position. So there's a lot of contradiction here. Since, as Minister Kownacki says, before the publication of the project, the permissible number of professional soldiers was discussed and the decision was made that there was no means to maintain more than 130,000, I understand that the Senate, by proposing, and the resort supporting the amended amendment, consciously say goodbye to modernization and despite the increase in expenditure, block the real development of the army. Referring once again to the Minister's statement: in any case, we will not reach the maximum personal limit in real terms. So we can conclude that this is just a paper reform. And now some numbers. At the beginning of the month, the head of the MON at the arms fair in my family's Kielce declared that by 2030 we would allocate 550 billion to modernization of the army. Assuming a very optimistic option for GDP growth and taking into account the project growth of the MON budget, its total budget by 2030 will be around 760 billion. During the same period, we will spend approximately 350 billion on personal benefits and expenses, without taking into account the costs of the Territorial Defence Army in this calculation. So we're going to run out of hundreds of billions of dollars for modernization plans. Let us not focus on the quantitative production of the army, because in the current reality of the battlefield it makes no sense. We need to increase property expenditure, acquire new technologies, increase research and development. I consider this type of expenditure necessary and cost-effective. In this segment, we should focus on increasing funding, as I have repeated many times. Both the lack of determination and consequences regarding the size of the Polish army, as well as the light-handed calculations of the means for modernising the army show us the chaos currently prevailing in the Ministry of National Defence. In my opinion, the Polish Armed Group should return to the management of the Minister of Finance, because I think he can handle the accounts better. Otherwise there will be no development of the Polish arms industry, and money, as Minister Kownacki rightly pointed out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll be eaten. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u525	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda put his position in writing. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have decided to refer to the words, especially one of the parliamentarians, who had just acted on this speaker, because you say, Mr President, it is not true. We weren't planning on reducing the size of the Polish army, and you know it. The number of Polish army was increased to 200,000. And I'd also like us to discuss security and defence issues... I was hoping for a moment that it would be like this. [[That's enough.]] Now we're gonna be substantive. We are not offended, we are not using arguments that are ad personam, we are talking about how to improve the security of the Polish state. Mr President, you are talking about the emotional stability of the members of the governing party. I don't know what you're thinking, but I'd be happy to have a substantive argument from the Parliamentary Speaker. There's a discussion. You've been expecting her, you've told me many times: I expect this substantive conversation. And where is this substantive conversation? She's not here because you don't care. You want to build your emotions. That is why this amendment was adopted so as not to create barren disputes, because it was a barren dispute, Mr President. And instead of enjoying that the opposition can with the ruling party to cooperate and talk, you do everything you can to only heat up the dispute and public dispute, because you have nothing to offer Poles except for such a mischief, laying each other down. I appeal to the Member: let us not do this, at least not at the defence committee's meetings, but let us discuss it in substance. There's still a chance. If you don't take this chance, the voters will settle you. And, sir, by quoting the classics, you will die like dinosaurs. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u527	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If you're saying that the previous coalition was so good, then why is it so bad? That's the key question. Ladies and gentlemen! You've created a professional army that you've been talking about, 100,000. is able to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles. You've never come close to that level of 100 thousandth army. You've created a professional army that's been operating since hours. 7 to 6 p.m. 15. You created an army where strategic objects of the Republic were protected by security agencies, not by soldiers. These are facts, these are the realities of the operation of the military during the rule of the Civic Platform. We want to create an army that is well trained, outnumbered, we want to create a mobile army, we want to create an army that meets the requirements of the present times and the battlefield of the 21st century. We want to create such an army and invite you to cooperate, we do not resent you, we invite you to cooperate. Take the glove, make changes with us, change Poland for the better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u529	Thank you. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, in the correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about this situation. Law and Justice two weeks ago reduced the army's number to 130 thousand, and after two weeks it increased to 150 thousand. soldiers. Instead of saying briefly: we were wrong, you were right, we're pulling out of this reduction, you're confusing, you're saying nothing but stupid things here. Just tell me you made a mistake, briefly, because you made a mistake, because you're pulling out of the wrong decision, and luckily. You don't have the guts to take responsibility for any of this. [[Applause]] [[And we meet your expectations.]] [[That's what the Senate is for, there's a higher chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u531	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Public Procurement Law, print No. 1841. Modernization of the Polish army is a priority and this is without doubt. However, doubts may arise at a time when the activities of the current management of the MON are observed. As the Chinese proverb says, a good army should be like a nimble snake that strikes with a tail when his head was attacked and his head - when the tail was attacked. The question is whether you are currently trying to put the head in place of the tail and the tail in place of the head. Are the proposed changes good changes? Just because PiS has a diagnosis that's good doesn't mean it prescribed a good prescription. How can a strong army be built when an experienced commanding officer has been cut out of it? Is it true that there is only one general in the Air Force today? One - because the rest are retired, and the new nominations from the president are gone. Watching all this, I feel like the PiS are wrong about Korea. It is nothing that they recently invited to Kielce, the arms fair, South Korea as the main exhibitor, because they speak and want to act as if they wanted an army like North Korea - more but less armed. There is no doubt that the increase in GDP per army is the right direction, that is to go against the position reached during the recent NATO summits. Increase to 2,5% GDP may even be insufficient in the future. It is worth considering increasing up to 3%, with only one assumption: the skillful and wise spending of these funds. For now we know that the current management of the MON is very efficient in purchasing Christmas baubles for a million zlotys, teddy bears or muffins. However, this is not a priority in our assessment. Such a crowning example, confirming our doubts, is the issue of a tender on helicopters. Let me just remind you that the Minister has already announced three times the date of receipt of the purchased machinery, and he has also spoken of several companies to build it, and so far the silence. When there are helicopters, we still don't know, and time is running. If this is to be the case with each invitation to tender, I fear that the measures that will be increased for modernisation will not be used. It's a serious threat. Another issue is to increase the number of soldiers. The question is, what kind of piss has the idea. If it's just a yearning for the old times, when the army was in conscription, it doesn't make any sense. Currently we have an army of 100 thousand, including the National Reserve Forces and the famous WOT. Here you have to ask clearly what it looks like to build WOT structures, because you can have the impression that the rulers can't handle it. If they can't handle the construction of WOTs, maybe they can't handle the substantive development of more professional soldiers? These questions will surely be explained by the defence team of the country, who will watch closely the work on this project. We are in favour of the good condition of the Polish army, behind Poland safe, without the influence of agents of foreign powers. We'll keep an eye on your actions, Minister of National Defense. The Polish People's Party will support the proposed Senate amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u533	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village (prints No. 1839 and 1857). I ask Mrs Urszula Pasławska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate at its meeting on 22 September considered this law and voted on one amendment to clarify the article. 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 After the words "Michniov pacification day," the words "Michniov pacification day" shall be inserted in 1943. Of course, the amendment is very correct and has received a positive opinion from the Committee on Culture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u535	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u536	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice during work in the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media, and later during the vote in the Sejm, supported with full conviction the draft law on the establishment of the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. Also now we believe that the Senate amendment, which adds 1943 to the contents of the Act, is correct, which precisely clarifies when this genocide pacification of the inhabitants of the Polish village of Michniów by the Germans took place. Certainly the inhabitants of Polish villages should be commemorated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u537	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the amendment tabled by the Senate on the Act establishing the Day of Combating and Martyrdom of the Polish Village, adding the year of Michniów's pacification. At the same time, he maintains his position on the need to celebrate the heroism of Polish villagers in the fight against the invader. As a nation, we are obliged to remember those who have defended their land, who have helped others and often suffered the greatest sacrifice - the sacrifice of their lives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u539	Thank you, Member. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank the applicants for this very necessary project and, of course, as a Kukiz club15, we are in favour of the amendment tabled by the Senate, clarifying the year of the Michniov pacification, clarifying this date, which said that this was the case in 1943. Of course, it's a historical fact, and we're not going to argue with that. So that I thank you for this amendment. Of course, we'll support that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski put his position in writing. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u542	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to make a statement and, of course, to present a position on the Senate resolution on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. As it has been raining many times here from this pulpit, the Senate has observed a glitch. He has introduced a certain amendment of a nature, as he himself has stated, which is more precise. Namely in the article. 1 additionally introduced the date of 1943, which is of course historical truth, is a historical date. In his explanatory statement, the Senate wrote a significant sentence, with which it is difficult to disagree. This date is not widely known in the opinion of the House. The idea that this is true should be drawn from that sentence. Unfortunately, this date of Michniov's pacification concerning Polish village Martyrology in general is little known in Poland. I think that the establishment of this holiday on July 12th each year will help to raise awareness of what happened during World War II. In view of the above and in view of the support of all clubs of this holiday I would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the applicants that the Polish village, although perhaps late, has had a holiday that will remind you of these times, the bad times in which the Polish village stood at the level of the task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u543	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We believe that it is important to honor the memory of the civilian villagers who, during World War II, risked their own lives and their loved ones, helped soldiers and guerrillas fighting the Nazi invader. Victims of the Volyn massacre who were brutally murdered from the inspiration of Ukrainian nationalists deserve to be commemorated. As Andrzej Leder wrote in his "Delighted Revolution": The peasants are unwanted parents of the Polish society. Today we forget or do not want to remember that most Poles have peasant roots. Monika Strzępka and Paweł Demirski made this clear by their performance in the name of Jakub S. Wiesław Myśliwski also emphasized this in his literary work. The bill is a good step to value peasant culture and remind Poles that it had a huge impact on our history. The Modern Posel Club agrees with the project establishing the 12th July Day of the Fight and Martyrdom of the Polish Village.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report by the Senate on the Act establishing the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. At the meeting of the Sejm on 15 September this year. The High Chamber adopted a law establishing 12 July - the day of the Michniv pacification - the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. At its meeting of 22 September 2017, the Senate adopted an amendment of a more precise nature to the wording of the Article. 1. After the words "Michniov pacification day," he added the words "Michniov" in 1943. I fully share the view of the senators that the full date of Michniov's pacification should be indicated in the text of the Act. The purpose of the bill - its specific character, which is the educational and information function for society - will be fully achieved only after a specific date has been given. I agree with the Senate's assessment that this date, as well as the event that we commemorate this law - the Michniv pacification, are not widely known facts, especially to the young generation. For this reason, the Free and Solidarnia Circle considers the Senate's amendments justified and will vote in favour of the amended version of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u546	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 28 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the autumn of 1867 Chojnice was visited by the first nuns of the Franciscan Sisters' Assembly from the Atonement and Christian Love of the Assembly founded by Katarzyna Damen in 1835 in the Netherlands. Chojnice is the first Polish city under partitions, where the Franciscans found their place of work and prayer. It's been 150 years since then. It's a beautiful anniversary of the service of the Christian nuns in my town. Since the beginning of their activities in Chojnice, the Franciscans have been very involved in educational and caring activities. They ran a kindergarten, elementary school and orphanage, including the whole Chojnic community: Catholics, Protestants and Jews. This social activity was the salt in the eye of the Prussian possessor, who in every possible way hindered the functioning of the assembly. The apogee of the repressive action of kulturkampfu caused that in August 1875 the sisters had to leave Chojnice. Thanks to the efforts of Fr. Reverend Augustine Behrendt, director of the Zamartem Fr. Dr. Anthony Wolszlagier and Prefect Fr. After 10 years in November 1885, Dr. Klemens Ludtke returned to Chojnice. The sisters returned to St. Boromeus, who was a nun's house. During the absence of the sisters in Chojnice, thanks to the efforts of the local Catholic community at the plant, the construction of the hospital began. The return of the nuns to Chojnice was a great joy for the community of the city. The residents decorated the city, the parish church and St. Boromeus. These gestures and generosity of the Chojniczans, who supported the sisters who did not receive any wages, bear witness to the great gratitude of the inhabitants for the work they did for the Chojniczans. After returning to Chojnice, the sisters participated very actively in the construction of the hospital: cleaning, washing, scrubbing and cleaning the debris from the building. In the second half of 1886 the first patients were admitted to the hospital. The nurses and the roomkeepers were Franciscan sisters. The sisters continued their educational and caring activities in kindergarten and orphanage. A very difficult experience for the Order and sisters was the time of World War I and II when they were forced to care for soldiers of the criminal German system and care for them. The Franciscans risked their lives to help and care for the guerrillas of Gryf Pomorskie and the sick Poles. A very painful and tragic experience for nuns was the entry of the Red Army into Chojnice. After the march of 15 February 1945, Soviet soldiers murdered Sister Adelgund Tuminska, who stood up for the girls who were attacked. The times of the greatest Stalinist oppression and the fight against the church in Poland the Franciscans in Chojnice survived thanks to the mother of the superior Rafaela Schmidt. The Communist authorities systematically removed the sisters from their positions in the hospital and kindergarten. In 1949, the State requisitioned the Holy House. Boromeus and the Holy House Joseph, and in 1961 the Marian house, and in 1981. The house of St. Francis. The summit of communist persecutions was the idea of moving the sisters to the barracks at the town slaughterhouse. Fortunately, it was not realized. Until 1948. Chojnice was the main home of the sisters in Poland. In the autumn of 1948, after the growing chicans of power, the function of the main house was transferred to Orlik. The Franciscan sisters have been inseparable from the history of Chojnice for 150 years. From this point on, I speak heartfeltly. God pay for the work that the sisters did and do all the time for Chojnice residents, for sacrifice, prayer, catechesis, service to the parishes. On the eve of the anniversary of the 150th anniversary of my arrival in Chojnice, I wish my sisters the best wishes of God's blessing every day of your ministry. God bless you! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u549	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 23 September 2017 it was an extremely important day for the community of School Complex No. 3 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, a facility which, in the consciousness of many generations of inhabitants of the city, registered as the Hutniczko-Mechaniczne Technikum, or popular THM. The history of this facility began with the request made in June 1921 by the strikers of the Ostrowice Works, who asked the directorate to set up craft courses for both younger and older workers in order to complement and improve their professional qualifications. This postulate was completed and in 1922 at the Ostrowiec University of Technology, such courses were organized, and the decision of the Ministry of Religious Confession and Public Enlightenment was legalized as a vocational school, one of three then operating in Ostrowiec. Thus the year 2017 is celebrated as the jubilee year, the year of the 95th anniversary of the school. In less than 100 years, the facility operated under eight names, and the organs that carried it changed. However, it must be said that perfect teachers and students were a constant feature of this school. She was also lucky to have excellent executives. Of the eight directors of this institution, I would like to mention Leon Chrzanowski, Sławomir Kopański, an excellent mathematician, Member of the Sejm in 1989 and head of the school today Czesław Golis. The brand of the School Complex No 3 was and is a high level of teaching vocational subjects as well as general education. This is proved by the numerous successes of the students in the Olympics and competitions concerned and by the high places in the rankings of the best technical schools. In the ranking of the Polish Rzeczpospolita and the Perspektywwy between 2011 and 2014 this school was considered the best technical school of the Świętokrzyskie voivodship. Ladies and gentlemen! This great anniversary is an excellent opportunity to showcase the great achievements of the school over the past decades. Unique educational achievements, a number of outstanding graduates who have made the name of the popular THM in Poland and the world famous, and thousands of well-educated specialists are the result of the work of all those who for years have educated and raised the next generations of young people in our city and voivodship. Today, therefore, I would like to express my deepest appreciation and respect for the next directors, teachers and all the employees who have shared their knowledge and skills with the students for nearly a century, and all those who today have so wonderfully continued their work. Appreciating your daily efforts to carry out your duties conscientiously and creatively and congratulating you on your achievements, I wish you as much satisfaction from your work as possible. I congratulate the students of the School Complex No 3 on the choice of such a distinguished institution and wish you enthusiasm and perseverance in gaining knowledge. The school whose students you are gives you great opportunities for development. Try to make the most of it, and then the next years will bring even more success and cause for joy. I wish this whole school community with all my heart. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. In that case, please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, also the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the creation of the National Armed Forces, a conspiracy organization of independence. The National Armed Forces were officially established on 20 September 1942, in fact the process of forming the NSZ began in July 1942 by order of colonel. Ignacy Oziewicz, first commander of the main formation. The National Armed Forces are one of the most famous organizations of Poland's Underground War and Postwar period. Next to the Home Army and the Battalions of the peasants, they were the largest political-military formation during the occupation. At the time of joining the NSZ with the National Army in March 1944, the number of soldiers included in the NSZ was around 90,000. The National Political Council has been the governing body of the NSZ temporarily. NSZ was an organization created by a large number of professional pre-war officers. The organization was to cover Poland before 1939, as well as areas inhabited by Poles located before the war in German territory. Six inspectors were created in these areas, divided into 17 districts. The main programming objectives of the NSZ were formulated in the Declaration of the National Armed Forces of February 1943. They wanted to fight against Hitler's Germans as well as the Soviet Union, recognizing the Soviets as the greatest threat. They sought full sovereignty and reconstruction of Polish statehood. Nevertheless, NSZ troops were often unfairly accused of collaborating with Germany. They were unjustly attributed to the crimes committed during the war on the Jewish people, whereas many Jews served in the National Armed Forces divisions, and they were given the necessary support and assistance. Soldiers of the National Armed Forces also bravely fought in the Warsaw Uprising. The intelligence network, which operated in the territory of the Third Reich, has placed special merits. The National Armed Forces also dealt with propaganda activities, published about 100 titles, books on political or legal issues, and even training manuals for military verticals. In the publications of the NSZ one could find speeches of the Holy Father Pius XII, also to the Polish nation. The achievements and courage of the soldiers of the National Armed Forces have been ignored for years by silence, and in the end they have even been forgotten. Therefore, celebrations of the anniversary of the uprising of the NSZ are so important to restore their rightful place in the history of our nation. It should be remembered that NSZ was a national organization entirely free of foreign influence, ideologically independent and financially independent from the fighting parties. They fought not only for the independence of Poland. They had a political concept, had their own economic and educational programme. This is what distinguishes them from other organizations of this type. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u552	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u553	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday, President Duda presented his projects on the Supreme Court and KRS to Poland, Poles. The Supreme Court is the main body of the judicial authority in Poland, so it is very important for all Poles. We hoped that President Duda would present draft laws that would protect the three divisions of power, unfortunately, he surrendered to President Kaczyński and destroyed the independence of the courts. The political subordinateness of the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council of the present power, i.e. Minister Ziobra, is probably aimed at a profound change of electoral law so that the PiS wins the next election. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court was founded on 1 September 1917, when representatives of the slowly emerging state and the first president of the Supreme Court gathered in the Warsaw architect. It was the great wisdom of the people of that time. Today we can learn this wisdom from those who called the Supreme Court. On the occasion of the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of this day, celebrations took place, among others. The mass at which Cardinal Nycz spoke, I quote, I pray God, that the three divisions of the authorities should not be shaken. He said it in a homily during the Holy Mass on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court. He added that everything should be done to maintain a clean conscience and faithfulness to his beliefs. Next: What is to be saved, or yours, is the Supreme Court, because there he addressed the members of the court--vocation, independence and independence. I quote that, those words of Cardinal Nycz, so that you do not suspect that my words are merely a pure political game. Ladies and gentlemen, if you pass these projects on the courts of President Duda, the standards of our law will be identical to those of Turkey, very similar to those of Russia and Belarus. What's next? Eliminating the power-independent media and, therefore, restricting freedom of speech? It's the Supreme Court that approves the election results. When the PiS loses, the pen Supreme Court - if, according to the project that you presented to President Duda, it will be subject to the PiS - will consider that the elections were falsified. If they lose, right? Ladies and gentlemen, nothing else. We don't have any left but to go to the protests. I'm gonna be here on October 1 o'clock. 19 be before the court in Gdansk. I'm sure I'll meet a lot of friends there. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u554	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement is devoted to the 800th anniversary of the Silesian Lviv. Lwówek Śląski belongs to the group of the oldest cities in Lower Silesia. A rich story encourages us to discover his secrets and compels us to ponder over the past power of this castle. It is located in a place where spruce forests slowly begin to yield to pine sites, and the River Beaver with its picturesque current separates the Kaczawskie Pogórze from the Jizera Foothills. Eight centuries ago, the Piast castle of Lviv Śląski was established here. The first settlers began to settle in the area of today's city in the late bronze age, but in fact the town of Lviv and surrounding villages began to grow only in the 12th century, when gold began to be mined in the area of the present city. The wealth of precious stones and their great interest in exploitation contributed to the rapid growth of the settlement. The second important factor in increasing the importance of the castle was the location on the main trade route leading from western Europe to the Halicka Rus. In 1209 the castle received numerous privileges from Prince Henryk Brodaty, among others. the law of brewing beer, milling flour and hunting within a radius of 1 mile from the settlement. Since the uprising, the city has been one of the most famous castles in Lower Silesia. The material symbol is the urban fortification team, which belong to the most interesting of its kind in Lower Silesia, create an exceptionally rich assumption with two defence circuits. The lion's fortifications quickly reached a level to deter even the strongest enemies, such as the Czech Hussites. The granting of urban rights in 1217 confirmed the privileges already acquired and involved the granting of new customs duties. The city quickly gained the position of one of the larger castles in Lower Silesia. At the end of the 14th century, Lviv was almost 13 thousand. The inhabitants and wealth only gave way to Wroclaw. Around Lwówek Śląski, numerous villages were created, which served as a supply for the city. Historical materials confirm the 800-year history of towns such as Zbylutów, Chmielno or Skorzynice. The late Middle Ages brought about the development of craftsmanship, especially the characteristic of the gathering of dresses. A huge blow to the city was the Thirty Years' War. Then Lwówek was completely robbed - first by Polish troops and later by the Austrian emperor's troops. Another great cataclysm occurred in 1813, when the surrounding areas were devastated by Napoleonic troops being hunted down by the Russian army. The Emperor Napoleon himself stayed in Lviv for 3 days in 1913 and personally commanded the battle over the Beaver, in which the troops of the great army replaced the Prussian troops from the village of Płakowice. The 19th century was a period of lush development for Lviv. New industrial plants were built, palaces were built and old ones renovated, unique parks, greenery were established. Then Mr Julius Hochberg began to build a modern brewery, which is still in operation today. The period of prosperity was interrupted by the crisis that affected the entire German lands after the end of World War I. Since then, Lviv Silesia has never rebuilt its position again. After the end of World War II, the city was located within the borders of the Polish state. The settlers from the whole pre-war area of Poland came here. The city became a regional industrial and administrative centre. It currently counts about 10,000. residents, is the seat of the authorities of the commune and the district of Lwówecki. Extremely beautiful architectural monuments, charming streets, rich history, as well as picturesque landscapes and panoramic views of Sudeta, the Krkonoše Mountains attract crowds of tourists. There are treasure hunters here, because the surroundings of Lwówek Śląski are famous for the known in Europe agate and sandstone deposits and centuries-old mining traditions. On the occasion of the anniversary of the 800th anniversary of granting city rights, I congratulate the inhabitants of Lviv Śląski with warm congratulations and wishes for further success and every success. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-28-sejm-48-2.u556	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 29 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for Have a good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 35]]
