ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Ms Monika Wieliczhowska, Mr Marcin Duszka and Mr Krzysztof Kubow as secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Elżbieta Borowska. I consider the minutes of the 38th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the item: First reading of the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws (print No 1385). The Group of Members has submitted a request to express a vote of distrust to the Council of Ministers led by the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, and to elect Mr Grzegorz Schetin as President of the Council of Ministers. The application is printing 1436. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this request. The group of Members has submitted a draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws. The project is printing 1435. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the establishment of the Western Cross, - to amend the Pharmaceutical Law Act. The reports shall be printed in 1395 and 1413 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion at first reading of draft laws concerning the National Judicial Council. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports: - the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions, - on the draft act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. We will decide on the time spent on the debate and the speeches of clubs and circles on the vote of distrust on Friday before the start of the point. If I do not hear the opposition to the time and time set out earlier, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau informs that information on the dramatic situation in Polish agriculture will be considered at the current Sejm meeting: failure to respond to the spread of ASF and avian influenza virus, embargo on the export of agri-food products and problems with the marketing of agricultural land, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Members shall make formal submissions. Member Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 10 days ago, the Legion Sovereign issued a verdict on your project, PiS-Polish magnification of Warsaw. You will not erase this verdict in any way. It was not a coup, it was the best organised consultation process you could imagine, a referendum. We apply as a Civic Platform club for a break on the basis of Article. Paragraph 184. 3, so that Minister Błaszczak, notabene of Legionów, obliges and disciplines the Mazowieckie voivode, so that he may publish this verdict, because everyone knows that you have lost 5:95. [[Applause]] And that verdict went into the world. If the voivode continues to violate the Local referendum law, Article. Sixty-three, we're gonna demand that the voivode be dismissed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u3	Good. Mr President, this is not actually a formal proposal for matters on the agenda and the proceedings. I cannot take it as a formal proposal, but I will tell the Home Minister that such a remark and such a request, such a expectation has been made. [[Information about this is on the agenda.]] Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u4	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! You can take my request for a break as a formal one. I request a recess and that you complete the agenda for information from the Marshal of the Sejm - I have already asked for this - regarding the criteria and principles on the basis of which you are punishing Members. Today we, Members of the Platform, are proud to receive your punishment. In my case, it's a salary and a half. [[Oh, it hurts, it hurts.]] In the case of my friends, my colleagues are also punishments. It is symbolic, Mr Marshal, that you are punishing Mrs Krzywonos. You are not the first regime to punish Henryka Krzywonos. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And free Poland will apologize for punishing Henryka Krzywonos for defending the Constitution. You punished Mr Grabc for leaving and reading from the speaker the article of the Constitution, the Polish Constitution, which you call the Communist Constitution... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Annie Valentynowicz had to be remembered.]] [[And what were you vowing?]] ...and this is the Polish constitution, our constitution. Mr. Marshal! I am proud - I believe that my colleagues too - will show these punishments because we represent voters here. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, you are trying to intimidate us, prevent us from fulfilling our mandate, and we have been given a mandate by Poles and they expect us to present their arguments and arguments here. It's our duty. I want to tell you, marshal, I'll work for free. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'll work for free. [[Applause]] You won't scare us. I accept this punishment and wait for the next one, if you are prepared to measure it, but I demand that you present the criteria. During this term, half of the speeches by Jarosław Kaczyński were speeches by ad vocem, formal proposals. You never punished him. Today, I'm going to ask you to punish Jarosław Kaczyński, like this situation, and if you don't, to punish you, [[Applause]] as one who does not comply with the Rules of Procedure [[♪ The bell ♪]] Seym. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u5	Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[It was a formal conclusion. Vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if... [[What are you doing here?]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u7	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u8	...you can say that this is the opposite motion, the opposite voice, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u9	Excuse me, sir, not so much the opposite of the vote against. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u10	A vote against, I'm sorry. I think it would take Mr. Nitras to come to his conclusion right here... [[Voice from the Chamber: It is said: Mr.]] ...Mr Nitras would like to accept. I ask that Mr Nitras take a break so that during this break he can write a statement - as there is such a Cossack - that he resigns from his salary until the end of his term of office and passes it on to society. I think we could use a break. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[But he made it up.]] [[Voice from the room: What is the opposite conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u11	I would like to inform your fellow Members that... [[But there was a formal conclusion. Now vote.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I apologize for the correction.]] In corrigendum mode, please. Member of Sławomir Nitras in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u12	The Member has an undoubted advantage over me because he knows my name. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But I would like to inform you that I am a Pole, not a Cossack. I represent Poles here, and for these Poles I demand respect from the state, because this is the Sejm, not some... This is the Sejm and we represent the Poles here. [[Applause]] You should represent the right level, too. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't shout.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct.]] [[Vote now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u13	Mr Piotr Kalet, corrected for correction. [[But there was no name, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Your name wasn't there, there's nothing to straighten out.]] I'd like to tell Mr. Nitras my name is Kaleta, Piotr Kaleta. I remembered your name as soon as I started being an envoy. Why? Because I recall the situation that once there was a Member, I'm sorry, there was a man with a similar name, an identical name, like yours, and he was... [[You can't insult me.]] [[The voice from the hall: He forgot what he wanted to say.]] ...one of these social gatherings offended my wife. He just got his face kicked for it. [[But what is it?]] [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u15	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u16	I got so close that this person may have been of your family... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] But he was a tall, handsome man...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u17	Mr President, this is not a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u18	Then he came in, apologized, and so right away...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u19	No, no, no. Mr President, this is not a corrigendum, I am very sorry. [[Formal conclusion.]] No, this discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nitras' formal proposal is pointless... [[Why?]] [[Because you thought so?]] ... as the project submitted by the Civic Platform club concerning this resolution was addressed to the regular cultural committee for consideration. [[But there was a request for a recess, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 (1) I request that the Sejm be adjourned by tomorrow and that two opinions be forwarded to all Members concerning your jump to the courts, the law on the National Court Register. This is a devastating opinion for your project, Professor Rakowska-Trela and Professor Mark Chmaj. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The OSCE opinion is also devastating for you. The solutions you want to introduce, the constitutional dismemberment of the KRS, are typical of dictatorships, not a democratic state, not for the republic that you refer to as such. You're not Republicans, because the rule of three divisions of power is completely alien to you. And do you know in what state of judges are elected Members, politicians? In a country in the East, but not in this warm Middle East for you, but in the Far East. The only state where Members point to judges and choose judges who obey each other is... [[Spain.]] ... Korea, but not South Korea, Mr. Marshal, but North Korea, Communist Korea, where Members share courts as cake. You want the judges to obey you. Question: "How will you choose them?" Is it based on voivodship? Members of the PiS in this region will cast such an appeal, and those of the East - such an appeal? This is an unconstitutional bill, a bill crushed by an opinion. I'm really ashamed that you're going back to communist solutions. That's the post-communism. It's a 1952 law. In the Polish People's Republic there were such solutions. [[Oh, here comes the specialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u21	Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, vote against. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[In confirmation mode.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Communion! Communion! Communion!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's the opposite voice. We are referring to European standards. This country is pulling in a completely different direction. I would like to inform you that according to European standards, and in particular the country of Mr Timmermans, the Netherlands, judges are appointed to their office at the request of the Minister of Justice. [[From the list presented by the judiciary.]] Similar solutions are in Germany. Similar solutions are in Austria and in many other countries. The fact that the Supreme Court judges in the Netherlands, Mr. Timmermans' country, chooses a parliament will probably be interesting to you. [[From the list of judges presented by the judiciary.]] Let this be an important message for you. We're going towards Europe. We want European solutions. Nowhere, ladies and gentlemen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Those are lies!]] ...there is no European state in which judges decide who will be the judge. This is only the case in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]] [[Can I have the opposite voice? Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u23	Your name has not been used, sir. [[But there were corrections, you allowed your...]] But your name wasn't used. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But you let your friends in. That's not true what you're saying.]] Your name has not been used, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That is not true, as Mr Peterovich said.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the adjournment request is concerned... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the adjournment request is concerned, I'll call the Seniors Convention... [[Let's vote.]] ...in half an hour, which means in 15... [[Let's vote. There was a formal motion for a vote!]] [[But there was a formal motion to adjourn. Let's vote.]] Mr. Dunin, I ask you to listen first and not shout from the room. I'll have the Convention in my office in half an hour to discuss the request for a continuance. [[Yeah, 'cause you gotta call Jaroslaw.]] At the moment, I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u24	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - h.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 10.15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Health-- hour. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Culture and Media - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 4:30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 12, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 12, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 17. The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians warmly invites ladies and gentlemen to the Lent Retreat which will take place on 5, 6 and 7 April this year. On Wednesday 5 April and Thursday 6 April the retreat will take place in the church of St. St. Aleksandra at pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw at 3 p.m. 20. Mass on the third day of the retreat, i.e. April 7th, will take place at 3 p.m. 7.15 in the Seym Chapel. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u25	Thank you so much for reading the messages. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's proposal for an Investment Act on the construction or reconstruction of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 metres (prints no. 1349 and 1392). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Misja to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I ask your Members either to leave the Parliament's Chamber - if you wish to have further discussions in the roundabouts - or to allow the rapporteur to present a report and to listen to this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, but also in my own, to present to you a draft law on investment in the construction or reconstruction of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 meters. The Act sets out the conditions for the preparation and implementation of investments in infrastructure providing access to the port, consisting in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m, which are strategic for the economy and security of the State, and the sources of funding for this investment. Investments consisting of the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m include robots, supplies or services consisting of: deepening the water track Szczecin - Świnoujście to a depth of 12.5 m with its expansion and geometry adjustments... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, I'm very sorry, but it's very disturbing. I think that if the Members are not interested, they can talk in the roundabouts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u27	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the plenary room. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u28	...which consists of: deepening the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m along with its extension and correction of track geometry, as well as the completion of the passing lanes and the deepening of the Grabowski Channel section between the Orla Przesmyk turntable and the turntable on the combination of the Grabowski Canal and the Dębicki Basin, the section of the water track between the Grain Basin and the turntable on the combination of Grabowski Canal and the Dębicki Basin; the level of the water track in the Świnoujście region; the deepening and expansion of the turntables: at the height of Poly together with the section of the water track in the Policki Canal to the waterfront in the Police Seaport, at the Orlim Pass in the Mieleński Basin at the entrance to the Grabowski Canal, at the combination of the Grabowski Canal and the Dębicki Basium; the construction of artificial islands in the Szczecin canal, together with the reconstruction and the construction of new or reconstruction of existing water-related fields; the comprehensive expansion of the Navigation Baza in Szczecin; the construction network or the construction zone, with the construction or reconstruction of the environment, with the construction of the environment, or reconstruction activities associated with the environment. The investment investor is the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin. Investments are to be financed from the State budget and the budget of the European Union, but this does not exclude financing from other sources. Investments are public objectives within the meaning of the Real Estate Management Act of 21 August 1997. If it is decided for the investment to determine the location of the public-purpose investment, and in the lines delimiting the area of the investment, the land constituting the self-certification parcels on the Management Board of the State Forest Farm, which is to be used for the purpose of the investment and, for forest land, excluded from production, the competent local fore-winders shall conclude a contract for free transfer of the management with the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin within 60 days of the date of receipt of the request for transfer of the Management Board, and shall transfer the land. If the land on the Management Board of State Forests does not constitute self-certification parcels, the competent local forward-looking land shall, within 30 days of receipt of the request for transfer of the Management Board, apply to the competent authority for the distribution of the property. Within 60 days of the date on which the decision to approve the division of the property became final or that decision was granted immediate feasibility, the competent local fortress shall conclude an agreement with the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin for the transfer of the management board free of charge and shall transfer those land. The costs of sharing the properties referred to above shall be borne by the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin. The Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin, on the basis of a construction project for investment, shall specify in the application for transfer of the management board the land to be used for investment purposes and, for forestry land, excluded from production. Where the decision on the construction permit relating to the investment concerns family parcel gardens established under the Law of 13 December 2013 on family parcel gardens, the investor is obliged to: pay the landlords compensation for the property belonging to the parcels and owned by them for the rights to land in the family parcel garden, in the amount of the crop provided for in the case of the liquidation of the family parcel garden during the period 1 April to 31 October; to pay the garden association compensation for the property owned by the landowners, buildings and buildings of the family parcel garden intended for the joint use of the land and intended to ensure the operation of the garden, and to compensate for the costs and losses incurred in connection with the liquidation of the family parcel garden. If the investor has not determined the amount of compensation by decision of the West Pomeranian Voivode within 30 days of the date of issue of the building permit, by agreement with the interested parties, the compensation shall be determined by decision of the West Pomeranian Voivode. In the case of the implementation of the investment in the port area of Szczecin, the investor's obligations to the extent specified in the agreement concluded with the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin may be fulfilled by the managing body of the port, which is the owner or perpetual user of the property in which the family gardens are located. In the case referred to in the first sentence, the investor shall reimburse to the managing body of the port the costs of payment of compensation up to the amount specified in the estimated operation. The amount and payment of compensation in the cases referred to above shall be determined in accordance with the property management rules. And now I'm going to give you the reasons for this bill. The draft Act on investments in the construction or conversion of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 metres was prepared to improve the preparation and implementation of the investment project on access to the seaport in Szczecin, Poland. The modernisation of the Świnoujście - Szczecin track to a depth of 12.5 metres included in the list of identified projects, as Annex 5 to the detailed descriptions of the priority axes of the Operational Programme for 2014-2020. The project is on this list under the number. 323, item 264. The entire procedure for the estimation of investment costs ensures financing and monitoring of expenditure, is carried out in a separate manner in accordance with European and national rules, including the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances. This investment will be implemented within the framework of the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and Environment" for the period 2014-2020. The investment is strategic for the economy and state security. Urgent implementation of the modernization of the Świnoujście - Szczecin water track to a depth of 12.5 m is essential for the development of seaports of vital importance to the national economy and thus ensuring the safety of shipping on the water track. The provisions of the proposed law will apply to the entity involved in the implementation of the investment carried out under the law, i.e. to the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin. The proposed law will also apply to bodies carrying out environmental arrangements for investments and users of parcel gardens. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce procedural facilitations for the exemption of the investor and environmental decision-making body from the obligation to establish compliance with the spatial planning plan and land solutions on which family gardens are located, including the definition of a procedure for dealing with possible compensation for the seizure of those land during the implementation of the investment. The procedure laid down in the Act accompanying the liquidation of family gardens will simplify and speed up the acquisition of land necessary for the implementation of investments and will facilitate the amicable resolution of the problems involved. The investment is mainly carried out on the marine waters of the sea and on the sea shore, i.e. land in the permanent management board of the Maritime Office in Szczecin. Lands on which the gardens are located are located on the island of Ostrów Grabowski in Szczecin and are in perpetual use of the Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście SA. The draft law takes into account the specificities of investments in waterways and the specific characteristics of the investor, which will only be the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin, which represents the Treasury. The aim of the special scheme is to introduce procedural facilitations for pre-investment preparatory work and not to provide financing for investments. The project is a continuation and the third stage of implementation of the Świnoujście - Szczecin water track modernisation project. The second stage, i.e. the project under the name "Modernisation of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin, the Piast Canal and Małiński, the eastern and western side," was carried out in the financial perspective of 2007. The investment is not subject to the provisions of the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, which require the establishment of environmental conditions for investment in compliance with the local spatial planning, due to the fact that not all municipalities in which the investment will take place have current spatial planning plans and that some of them may be incompatible with the local spatial planning plan. All other environmental issues will be resolved in accordance with the applicable legislation in the context of the environmental impact assessment under the environmental conditions decisions issued for investment, which ensures that investments are implemented in a manner consistent with environmental requirements. On 9 January 2017, a decision of the Minister for Development and Finance No 13/POIiŚ2020/2017 was issued to ensure the financing of the implementation of the project under the name "Modernisation of the Świnoujście - Szczecin watercourse to a depth of 12.5 m. A total of 26,552 000 will be included in the budget limit set for this purpose in the budget laws for the period 2017 and 2022. zł. The adoption of the Act is of key and strategic importance primarily for the West Pomeranian voivodship, creating the basis for the implementation of investments included in the Transport Development Strategy by 2020 and providing, in particular, for the efficient implementation of further infrastructure and industrial projects, namely: maintaining the conditions for operating and expanding the external port in Świnoujście by creating a LNG export position, expanding the port infrastructure in the southern part of the port in Świnoujście to enable the mooring and operation of ro-pax ferries up to 220 m long with the accompanying infrastructure, adapting the ferry terminal infrastructure in Świnoujście to intermodal transport, expanding the port infrastructure in the port in Szczecin by improving the availability of the waterfront with improved navigation conditions at the Dębicki Canal and the Kaszubski Basin, expanding the port in Police with the terminal of liquid chemicals in relation to the investment of Police 2, i.e. the state-of-of-the-art and largest installations in Europe for the production of propylene by the PDH method. This action is consistent with the European Union's priority, which places great emphasis on improving transport corridors via environmentally friendly modes of transport. The investment will ensure an increase in freight mass, which will pass through the Baltic - Adriatic corridor through ports in Świnoujście and Szczecin. The idea of creating motorways of the sea is linked to the need to develop alternative transport links for intermodal transport. From the organizational and investment side both the Management Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście SA, the Swedish partners of the port as well as the ship owners operating on this line are prepared to handle additional freight. The Act, supporting economic functions in the transport, logistics and industrial field, provides conditions for port development by contributing to the TEN-T trans-European transport network programme co-financed by the European Investment Bank, the European Structural and Investment Funds and the Connecting Europe Facility. The aim is to improve the availability of seaports and coastal infrastructure while supporting maritime transport as an alternative to other modes of transport. As part of the public consultation which took place from 29 July to 1 August, the provisions concerning the modernization of the Świnoujście - Szczecin watercourse up to 12.5 m long were assessed by the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, the Marshal of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, the Management Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście SA and the Management Board of the Port of Police sp. z o.o. Ww. the authorities have not submitted any comments to the draft. The bill was also addressed to trade unions and employers' organizations, including the National Trade Union Agreement, NSZZ Ww. the entities also failed to comment on the draft law in question. The opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that the draft law is in line with European law, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation at its meeting on 22 March 2017 adopted this draft law without amendments and on its behalf, but also on my own, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mr... [[Cell phone sound]] Now I'm the one who's bothering us. ...for reporting. But before I give the floor to the next Members, I will greet the students of the military classes of the School Complex to them. Władysław Tatarkiewicz in Radosza Smolany... [[Applause]] I don't know this town, but I can tell it is. ...with teachers and director Marianna Brzozowska-Skwarek. Greetings to you, enjoy your stay in the Sejm and, I hope, the pleasure of meeting with Members, also to see what the Sejm looks like inside. Now, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the hall: Thank you very much, Marshal.]] There you go. Now, let's get to the discussion. The Sejm has established that on this item, the agenda will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And first, in principle, first, because it is the Member of the Law and Justice Club, I will ask Mr Krzysztof Zaremba. You're welcome. Please write your names clearly, because I can't read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I was honoured to express my opinion on the government proposal for a law on investment in the construction or reconstruction of the Świnoujście - Szczecin watercourse to a depth of 12.5 metres. The rapporteur outlined in detail all the principles of the law, justification and additional elements of the legal action that will have to accompany these investments. I would like to focus on the fact that this investment is very much needed and it has been advocated by the Szczecin, West Pomeranian and Świnoujskie environments for several years. This investment is crucial if we want to restore Szczecin - Świnoujscie port team's leading role in the Baltic when it comes to transhipment port. The volume of turnover in the port of Szczecin - Świnoujście is increasing all the time, especially in the last 2 years, which we welcome very much, however, made on the German side of infrastructure investments, as well as on intermodal transport, especially as regards the port in Rostock, caused - I am talking here especially about the second half of the 1990s, until 2010 - that the port in Rostock was ahead of the Szczecin - Świnoujście port team. Let us also bear in mind that the status of the port in Schwedt, despite such a wide distance between Schwedt and Rostock, shows that the German side has tried, is trying to create a counterweight for the Szczecin-Świnoujście port team, which is an integrated team and which is a more forward-looking team, for example due to geographical location, as well as the EU transport corridors and the Scandinavian interest and support for all infrastructure projects. But the Achilles' heel of our port of Szczecin - Świnoujście was a watercourse, or exactly a shallow or lack of proper depth. This meant that some units could not influence at full load or could not enter the port in Szczecin or had to be partially unloaded in Świnoujście to enter Szczecin and load there. This investment will be financed by the Republic of Poland as well as by European funds. I hope that all clubs will support this bill, because I think it is beyond divisions, because just as we all represent different environments here, so all these years this investment has been practically in every program of different groups also reported and designed to be implemented. Today it has happened that we have a well-built resort of maritime and inland waterway management and the strength of the ministry's penetration is much greater than before, in previous government constructions, where we only had a Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and it is known that these issues were treated stepmotherly. I would also like to draw attention to one aspect that was mentioned here, and the rapporteur also spoke about it. Namely, it is about accompanying investments, i.e. so-called. Police 2, the polypropylene factory, which is being built in the Police, the development of the port in the Police, because this is the third part of our port team, as well as, ladies and gentlemen, the same infrastructure investments in Świnoujście. Let us also remember about the project - he is already in the process - the expansion of the gas terminal or the planned investment concerning the container terminal, even though the inland container terminal is also in Szczecin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to support this bill. The Law and Justice Club will, of course, vote in favour of the Government's submission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. And on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Norbert Obrycki will perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u32	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on investment in the construction or reconstruction of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 meters. The contested bill is the best example of the fact that what builds the strength of our country is the continuation of multi-annual investment programmes, regardless of what the governing team is currently in power. The draft law, as indicated in the applicant's explanatory statement, refers to the third stage of the work, which is extremely difficult and expensive, but necessary for Odra to be not only navigable, but also attractive businessly due to the deepening of the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse throughout its length to a depth of 12.5 m. It should be recalled here that the first two stages have been successfully completed and are an essential starting point for further work. The first stage of the modernization of the watercourse in 2000 and 2004 included the construction of the starting waves from the Piast Canal to the Szczeciński Zalew and the reconstruction of the shores of the eastern and western sides of the canal on a section of 3 km of the length of the track. The second stage, carried out entirely under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, took over the reconstruction of the coastal fortifications of the Piast Canal and the Małeński Canal on the eastern and western sides of the section with a length of more than 8 km of the watercourse. The modernised edge reinforcements have been adapted to the target track depth of 12.5 m. Construction works also included the removal of navigation obstacles, the landing of bays after the former Karsibor ferry crossing, the construction of technical quay on the island of Malin and the restoration of waterfront No 91. Under the Civic Platform, all the strategic documents needed for this ambitious task were also prepared: feasibility study for investment, environmental impact report, mathematical model of watercourse, complete navigation analysis of the upgraded track and many other supporting studies. This draft law anticipates the problems that may arise with the necessary expropriation of landowners in this case and the problems arising from local authorities' competence to make the necessary changes to the spatial planning plans. Its aim is primarily to introduce procedural facilitations related to this. The draft law also sets out in detail the scope of the water track modernisation investment and indicates the source of financing for the investment, i.e. Operational programme - Infrastructure and the environment for the period 2014-2020. This investment is undoubtedly strategic for the economy and state security and is essential for the development of ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście. It is therefore essential for the national economy and to ensure the safety of shipping on the watercourse. It is included in the implementation document for the 2020 transport development strategy with a view to 2030. For obvious reasons, the Civic Platform Club supports the proposed solutions. We are pleased that the rulers have now recognised the achievements of previous governing teams, including the Civic Platform, and continue their work on the modernisation and deepening of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m throughout its length, i.e. Sixty-seven miles. We hope that the process of ensuring the right conditions to implement this ambitious strategic action will proceed quickly and efficiently, respecting citizens' ownership rights and their right to fair compensation for expropriation from areas affected by the Act. The Civic Platform will continue to support all activities aimed at modernising the Szczecin-Świnoujście watercourse and improving access to the port in Szczecin. We will also observe how the investment process itself will proceed, in view of the enormous scope of work that will be carried out. The proposed special act introduces procedural facilitations, but in the field of pre-investment preparatory work. We hope that the implementation of the relevant investment will take place as smoothly as the present special act is being conducted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u33	Thank you very much. And Mr Norbert Obricki... Oh, he was here. I've wanted to give you the floor twice. New Year's Eve Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law on investments in the construction or reconstruction of the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse to a depth of 12.5 meters. Deepening the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse to this depth will increase the availability of the Szczecin - Świnoujście port, which will facilitate the transport and export of goods, ensure the development of around-port services and allow the elimination of shipping restrictions, including. on designation of the so-called. It's a mess. The explanatory memorandum states that its purpose is to introduce procedural facilitations in pre-investment preparatory work. Solutions are envisaged to enable rapid preparation and smooth implementation of the deepening of the watercourse along with the necessary accompanying work. This will reduce the procedural stage by about 6 months, which hopefully will contribute to an efficient public spending. This is important because it is planned that over PLN 1385 million will have to be allocated to the investment. This welcomes the fact that this proposal proposes provisions to simplify the environmental procedure in order to confirm its compliance with the local spatial planning plan. Good. It is proposed to exempt the investor from the obligation to present extracts and drawings from the spatial planning plan when submitting an application for an opinion on the environmental impact assessment of the project and the whole Natura 2000 area, as well as when applying for a decision on environmental conditions. Kukiz.15 considers that legislation to facilitate the acquisition of land on which family gardens are located is a good solution. This will allow easier and faster acquisition of garden areas for investment, with the possibility of amicable settlement of disputes. We believe that such solutions are in our national interest. The draft law also sets out a procedural path in the event of exclusion from the board of State Land Forests, which according to the construction project will be used for investment. The deepening of the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse to a depth of 12.5 m is one of the basic investments, connected not only with the development of ports in Szczecin, but also an important impulse for the development of the entire region. The technical depth of 68 km of the water track connecting Świnoujście and Szczecin almost over the entire length is 10.5 m. This allows for safe shipping only ships with a draught of up to 9,15 m. The Baltic standard for seawater depth in seaports or container terminals is currently 15 and 16 m. The condition for maintaining competition through the port in Szczecin is the deepening of this track. The location of Szczecin inland can be an asset of the port. It offers a chance to reach by cheaper seaways much closer to the recipients and shippers of their cargo. A similar location in inland areas, which is closer to the facilities and economic centres located there, can be seen in many European ports. An example is the port in Hamburg - it is a 110 km long track from the open sea and also in Antwerp, where the distance from the sea to the port is 130 km. Most transhipments there indicate that these ports are developing and constitute important economic centres of the regions and countries in which they operate. If we want to join the European lead, we should, of course, deepen the watercourse to 12.5 m. This Act allows proper preparation for this investment. We as the Kukiz Posel Club15 will, of course, vote in favour of this law, in favour of these solutions. We are pleased that all parliamentary clubs in the Sejm will support this direction because it serves the whole community of Szczecin, Polic, Świnoujście. And this is really the flywheel of this part of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u35	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the club, Mr. Piotr Misilo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, it is my honor to present the position of our club regarding this bill. As the Members and Members of this House know very well, one of the most important factors for economic growth is the development of international trade, and this exchange, which is still the most cost-effective, is carried out through maritime transport. Seaports in Szczecin and Świnoujście form one of the largest and most universal port complexes in the Baltic Sea. It is also one of the most important transport hubs in the South Baltic region. The most important advantage is its location on the shortest road connecting Scandinavia to central and southern Europe, and its location on the shortest sea road connecting, via the Baltic, Russia, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia with Germany and beyond - Western Europe. However, at present, units that can be accommodated in the Szczecin port have a maximum immersion of up to 9 m, and in practice even smaller, resulting in a de facto marginalisation of the position of the Szczecin port in a competitive market for southern Baltic port services. Many customers are forced to select alternative ports, i.e. e.g. in Rostock, which has a immersion of up to 13 m, or in Hamburg - up to 14,4 m, which translates, of course, into a smaller quantity of goods carried in Poland. The adoption of the Act, not so much its adoption as its real implementation, is of key strategic importance primarily for Szczecin, the West Pomeranian voivodeship, but also for the whole Republic, creating the basis for the implementation of investments included in the 2020 Transport Development Strategy, in particular by providing for the effective implementation of further infrastructure and industrial projects, namely: maintaining the conditions for the operation and expansion of the external port in Świnoujście by creating a position for the export of LNG, developing port infrastructure in the southern part of the port of Świnoujście to enable mooring and handling of ro-pax ferries up to 220 m long with accompanying infrastructure, adapting the infrastructure of the Świnoujście Ferry Terminal to intermodal transport, developing port infrastructure in the port in Szczecin by improving the availability of the quay with improved navigation conditions in the Dębicki Canal and the Kaszubsko Basin Basin, expanding the port in the Poles with a terminal for liquid chemicals in relation to the investment of Police 2 - the most modern and largest installations in Europe for the production of propylene PDH method. This action is consistent with the priorities of the European Union, which places great emphasis on improving transport corridors via environmentally friendly modes of transport. The investment will ensure an increase in freight mass, which will pass through the Baltic - Adriatic corridor through ports in Świnoujście and Szczecin. The idea of creating motorways of the sea is linked to the need to develop alternative transport connections for intermodal transport. From the organizational and investment side, both the Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście, as well as the Swedish partners of the port, as well as the ship owners operating on this line, are prepared to handle additional cargo mass. The Act, supporting economic functions in the transport, logistics and industrial field, provides conditions for port development by contributing to the TEN-T trans-European transport network programme co-financed by the European Investment Bank, the European Structural and Investment Funds and the Connecting Europe Facility for which the aim is to improve the availability of seaports and coastal infrastructure while supporting maritime transport as alternatives to other modes of transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Deepening the watercourse of Szczecin - Świnoujście is our duty, which we cannot abandon regardless of who is in charge of the ship of Rzeczpospolita. Captain Kaczyński, you lead our ship very often to the shallow, but in the case of this Act, the Modern will vote in favour of it. I hope that this position will be voted unanimously by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u38	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Presenting today the position of the club of the Polish People's Party regarding the governmental draft law on the reconstruction of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin and referring to the report of the committee, the Seym prints No. 1349 and 1392, I would like to thank all those who participate in the work on the final provision of the law for constructive, normal, good, economic discussion and debate. Turns out you can. I am all the more pleased that this is the third stage of the investment launched in 2000, which in terms of perspective and finals will lead to the creation of a modern solution, modern infrastructure, modern navigation and preparation for the operation of marine vessels. This enables not only economic development of Szczecin and Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, but also increased trade, the use of this form of export or the way to export goods to other countries. It is also good that, as in a detailed, thorough and thorough manner, the rapporteur discussed the provisions of the draft law, so my previous speakers from each club indicated that the proposed provisions include and take into account the pace of work in both the preparation of the task and its subsequent implementation, so that this year 2022, the time factor, is used and used to complete the investment. It is very good that we can continue to engage to such a high degree, because 85% of the funds from the Operational Programme This is a significant and practically decisive factor when it comes to the possibility of financing this project without having to involve budgetary resources of this kind. I would also like to stress the provisions and regulations that speak of respecting the ownership of those whose property or, as in this case, land will have to be used and taken over by the maritime office in order to ensure the proper implementation of the investment process and later the functioning of the entire infrastructure that will arise. I think that this provision, which already regulates in the law itself the way of resolving property matters between the Maritime Office and the State Forests, will also improve and speed up the preparatory phase and later the implementation of the investment itself. We will, of course, vote in favour of this project. It remains for us to wish for this to be done by the Minister during this period, because the financial accounts of programmes or resources involved in the programmes of the European Union are subject to inexorable conditions and requirements to be met. However, we remain convinced that this task will be carried out technically and that it will be settled on the financial side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. On the list of Members who want to... Oh, we still have a Member. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on investment in the construction or reconstruction of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 meters. The draft law, as claimed by the applicants, was designed to improve the preparation and implementation of the investment project for access to the sea port in Szczecin. This investment will be implemented within the framework of the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and Environment" for the years 2014 and 202020. By proceeding on this project, we lean on one of the strategic investments for the Polish economy and the security of the state. No one needs to be convinced that it is necessary and long awaited. The modernisation of the shipping track will ensure safe shipping in the region, and the special act will make it possible to finance investments from EU funds to a large extent. It is therefore extremely important to simplify procedures for different types of permits in this respect. It is essential to provide for a law to facilitate environmental decision-making in the context of compliance with the spatial planning plan of land solutions on which the works will be carried out and on which they are located, inter alia. family gardens. It is clear that expropriations will require compensation. And here my doubts raises the information of the designers that it is not possible to accurately estimate the amount of compensation to be paid for the occupied parcel gardens. However, I hope that, according to the declarations, these costs will not exceed those assumed in the project. It should be stressed that the committee, without amendments, adopted a government bill. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. Again, I apologize for not calling you earlier. Now, let's get to the questions. 13 people have entered the list of Members who wish to ask a question, and Mr Sylwester Khrushch has put the question in writing and will be waiting for an answer in writing. Would any of you like to be on the list? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u42	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, a positive assessment should be made of the draft law, which aims to improve the preparation of the investment concerning the modernisation of the Świnoujście - Szczecin water track to a depth of 12.5 m, but there are voices from the association of landowners that the draft law does not include the obligation to indicate the replacement property. Such an obligation, in accordance with the provision of Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (1) of the Law on Family Land Gardens is one of the elements of the decision to expropriate real estate to a public purpose within the meaning of the Law on Real Estate Management. The draft law limits the benefits granted only to the payment of compensation to landowners and associations, while there is no obligation to provide replacement property. Question to the Minister: Does the legislator envisage further legislative work complementing this lack of obligation to provide replacement real estate? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the procedure laid down in the Act accompanying the liquidation of family gardens will simplify and speed up the acquisition of land necessary for the implementation of the investment and facilitate the amicable resolution of the problems associated with it. Please indicate the approximate start and end of the procedure of expropriation of land garden owners in Ostrów Grabowski in Szczecin, because the justification states that - I quote - given the actual duration of the procedures covered by the procedated law, the introduction of the specialty will reduce it by about 6 months. So please specify the threshold date from which we can talk about shortening the procedures by the said 6 months. While it is not possible to accurately estimate the amount of compensation to be paid due to the variety of plantings and the development of parcels, I would nevertheless ask you to indicate how much compensation was planned and reserved in the costories and in the State budget for this purpose. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of the dredging of the Oder water track between Szczecin and Świnoujście, there will be huge amounts of refulta, land, material or whatever the so called, which will be extracted. In relation to environmental requirements, I have a question: Does the Ministry already have plans where and where there are places for storage of such a huge mass of land, the reflux, so that it is in accordance with ecological requirements so that there are no problems later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! This is a great investment, a great investment, at which the end and Szczecin, and the Western Pomerania, but I think that also Polish maritime economy, have been waiting for a long time. It's a big undertaking, Minister. Therefore, I have two questions. First of all, I know that it may be difficult to answer at this moment, given what the timeline for this project looks like - are we able to determine when it will be completed, of course, at a very close level? I also have a question - when this project will be completed at a time when larger submersible ships will also be able to influence Szczecin - whether there will be any problems with the location of the gas pipe in the Baltic Sea or whether its location will not interfere with the movement of ships to our ports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15, another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is this. If we decide to rebuild the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m, we finally accept the location of the pipeline line Nord Stream 1, and so, in the future, do we renounce the possibility of receiving the largest units through the port? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u52	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this investment in deepening the water track to 12.5 m cannot be seen in the perspective of the ongoing maintenance of the water track. I would like to ask about a multi-annual programme for the maintenance of waterways in the area of the Oder estuary, which was planned for the years 2017/12028. The aim of this programme is to maintain and allow safe entry into ports in Świnoujście and in Szczecin, i.e. key ports for the Polish maritime economy. In 2016, the Minister and Members of Law and Justice assured that this programme would be adopted and implemented by the end of last year so that various investments could be implemented in individual instalments. To this day, this programme has not been adopted, although the Maritime Authority in Szczecin has prepared appropriate documents - a document related to environmental impacts. So practically everything is ready, but the funding is still not provided. When, then, Minister, this program will be implemented [[♪ The bell ♪]] And running? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 3 the investment is to be carried out in the financing of the state budget and the European Union. It is an important transport investment for Poland. What other sources of funding are referred to in the draft law? Art. 4 indicates that investments are public objectives. What are the rules for a decision on the location of a public-purpose investment? Do investors want to obtain an environmental decision without the above mentioned. The location decision? Is the position of Szczecin in this matter taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. Here you go, Member, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of this law means a faster liquidation of more than 400 family gardens on Ostrów Grabowski Island. They've been cultivated by landowners for over 30 years. No one's told them about the liquidation plans, hence their understandable grievances. Please tell me how much money will be spent on damages. The justification of the project does not show any amount, even estimated. And one more thing. By deepening the track, we want to compete for ports in Rostock or Hamburg. There, however, channels have a depth of 14,15 m. What is justified by the depth of 12.5 m for the Świnoujście - Szczecin track? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u57	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The need to deepen the watercourse between Świnoujście and Szczecin does not raise my doubts. In my opinion, this project will be carried out too late. I'm talking about the possibility of a collision with the Nord Stream pipeline. My question is: Will the existence of this pipeline not hinder the functioning of the Szczecin port? Doesn't it restrict its availability, which could reduce the effectiveness of the investment under consideration? In my opinion, the project should be implemented and I am pleased that the committee has adopted it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Law and Justice. Here you go, Member, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u60	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This investment is a strategic action for the Polish economy. I am glad that such action has been taken. Better late than never. I have a question for the Minister. Will the deepening of the Świnoujście watercourse - Szczecin to a depth of 12.5 m increase the attractiveness of the port when it comes to the transport of military equipment of NATO countries which conduct exercises on the Drawsko field and are in rotation in the territory of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Uruski, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The reconstruction of the Świnoujście - Szczecin watercourse is an extremely important investment, which aims to improve access to the sea port in Szczecin and the ports of the Szczecin flood. Therefore, the question: To what extent will the competitiveness of the ports of Świnoujście, Szczecin in relation to other ports in the Baltic Sea, with particular emphasis on the port of Rostock increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u63	Thank you very much. And last question - independent Mr Jan Klawiter. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question again relates mainly to the subject Nord Stream. Is that the maximum depth Nord Stream lets us have? And if not, what is the depth? Of course, if theoretically speaking, we can eventually request that this Nord Stream pipeline be translated to a higher depth in the future, because it seems to me, however, that the competitiveness of our port will be on a basis, because I know about 80%. Because these aren't the largest ships that can enter the Baltic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u65	And that was the last question at that point. I therefore ask the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Marek G grubarczyk, to speak. You're welcome. Just yet, Minister, I will read the question of Mr Krushch's New Year's Eve. Please answer in writing, but I will read to make it sound: How much will it cost per year to maintain the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse after deepening it to a depth of 12.5 m? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank everyone very warmly for supporting this investment. This unanimity and declaration tells us how important constructive cooperation between parliamentary clubs is. There is no doubt that the construction of the shipping track between Szczecin and Świnoujście is an essential element of the development of the Western Pomerania. This is also our priority when it comes to the functioning and investment of our ministry. Since some of the questions were repeated, they concerned parcel gardens, I would like to reassure everyone that negotiations are currently underway between the maritime office and the owners of the parcel gardens. A preliminary agreement has already been concluded which will continue and will identify all the means and needs arising from the compensation or expenditure incurred in the operation of these gardens. Today we are unable to determine what values or scope they will be, because this results in a strict result of the investments that were made in this area. Besides, as we assumed in the construction process, there will be valuations of experts who will only determine the final amounts and extent of compensation and compensation resulting from investments. On this occasion, no further legislative work is needed to clarify this action. During the implementation of this investment, the work that will emerge as a result of the deepening will be stored in the tailing islands. We assume that it will be two or three islands that will be built on this occasion. The completion is planned for 2022, the project process is due to end in 2018, and construction works will begin in 2018. The depth we want to reach, the depth of the ships' entrance, the immersion of the ships, is about 11 m. On this occasion, we should mention that there is no contradiction here. or a direct conflict with the Nord Stream pipeline. In the light of the German court's ruling, the Szczecin - Świnoujście port team is conducting proceedings concerning claims relating to the limitation of the development of this port due to the location of Nord Stream pipeline. And this process will continue, but it has no impact on investment. The multi-annual programme, which is currently under investigation, did not involve cooperation or cooperation within a range of 12.5 m in this investment. Therefore, we have made appropriate adjustments and in 2017 we will prepare the appropriate regulation. The investment was prepared with funds from the Operational Programme (Infrastructure and Environment) and from the state budget. Of course, the further objective is the next step in deepening, but it is primarily due to financial constraints as well as the potential of ports. With this investment, we have the opportunity to increase port handling capacity. The target is a double increase in transhipment in the port of Szczecin. On the other hand, the investment we want to make is, seems, delayed by a whole decade. So once again, thank you all very much for supporting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u67	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u68	Please respond in writing. How much will it cost to maintain the Szczecin - Świnoujście watercourse each year after deepening it to a depth of 12.5 m?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u69	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross (prints No 1294 and 1395). I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross, print No 1294. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 10 February 2017. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, following its first reading and after considering this draft law at its meetings on 22 February and 22 March and after setting up a special subcommittee for the examination of the draft law, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! I would like to stress that the work of both the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the subcommittees has been carried out in an exceptionally elevated atmosphere. All parliamentary clubs supported this bill. In addition to the typical legislative or stylistic amendments presented by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm, we accepted the amendment concerning the article. 5, in which we considered that, in view of the fact that there is a rule in the Polish law on awards and decorations, that there is no numbering on such decorations, also in this case the principle that the Western Cross will not have another number on the reverse of the award was introduced and adopted. During the discussion we considered that it would also be difficult to capture those who could receive crosses 1, 2, 3, and if that were the case, there might be an impression that those who will be marked with successive, hundred-thirty crosses are marked as less deserving persons. So the cross won't be in the back of the numbering. All parliamentary clubs, for which I thank you very warmly, supported this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to all parliamentary clubs for the unanimous support of this bill. I thank the senators, led by Senator Jan Żaryn, who was the initiator of this award, the Western Cross. We had a very special match here. I would also like to stress very clearly that the establishment of the Western Cross is in line with the historical policy of the formation which I represent, in line with the historical policy of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, in line with the idea and spirit of the decorations granted by President Andrzej Duda. The point is that in Western Europe, just as it had been done to Eastern Europe in establishing the Eastern Cross, in a solemn way first to find and then to mark and mark the Western Cross, those people who made an excellent contribution to regaining Poland's independence, often in a heroic way during the Second World War helped Poles, promoted the Polish issue, later, during the communist period, welcomed Poles who remained in exile, and after all tens and hundreds of thousands of our compatriots had to flee from the communist regime all over the world, from New Zealand, through South Africa, to the United States, Canada and many other countries of Europe, wherever we found refuge. Ladies and gentlemen! During the discussion in the committee, we were thinking about how to search for and decorate these people and I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, represented by Minister Dziedziczak, will have a great work here, an opportunity not only to search, but also to present, promote, honor these people in the Western world, whether posthumously or in relation to the living. In fact, we can say very clearly that this is the last moment for the last people, e.g. Those who heroically helped Poles during World War II were searched. Ladies and gentlemen! After the partitions in the 19th century. Poles regained their independence in 1918 thanks to the values of our nation, thanks to huge patriotism and commitment, but it must also be acknowledged that these values we carry were incredibly inspiring for representatives of other nations. In the 19th century, in our national uprisings, even people of other nations often gave their lives for our freedom. These people were honored and honored in Poland. We have schools, streets, squares which are given names of people who served Polish independence during the partitions. In turn, people who in the 1980s, e.g. in the state of war, they have helped Poland a lot, they are not yet properly sophisticated, awarded, they are not mentioned. These people may not be expecting this cross. They did it with a pure heart, but we should make sure that these people are shown in the Western world, that they are marked in the Western world, and that Western European societies see that our cooperation, that the help from these people flowed to Poland, as I say, often very heroic, because it is known that the communist agent was able to fight even in the UK or in the most powerful countries of the people who helped. The famous British soldier Ron Jeffery, who was captured during World War II and then escaped from captivity and entered the Home Army, fought in the Home Army, informed about Katyn, about all our misfortunes that met us under Nazi occupation, was effectively in the world, in Great Britain compromised before Prime Minister Churchill, before the British Government, before Anthony Eden by Soviet agents and had no opportunity to present the Polish case effectively. He left for New Zealand, died relatively recently. This is one of many examples of people who should get such a distinction. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u73	I ask Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club, to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross, print No 1395. First of all, I would like to say that the initiative to honor the Polish national award of people who were involved in helping Poles, I will remind, in difficult years 1939 and 1989, i.e. time, I will quote here the introductory sentence to the law: to resist two totalitarianisms, German Nazism, Soviet occupation and communist domination of Polish lands, I think it is worthy of support. During half a century of Polish history, in which our homeland suffered many dramas and tragedies, there were people who helped Poles, although Poles themselves were not. There were participants in the public life of Western European countries, both Americas and countries on the antipods, politicians, journalists, social activists. The group of people who could be awarded the Western Cross is quite wide. That is very good, but it is not only very many people, because foreign organizations were also working to help Poles, as I said, at this difficult time, in the years 1939 and 1989. I have a point here about placing an eagle in the pattern of decorating according to the pattern introduced by the Polish government in exile in 1956. I will remind you that it was introduced by a decree of the President of the Republic of Poland on the exile of August Zaleski, at a time when a large part of the emigration, including such authorities as the generals of Władysław Anders, Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski or an outstanding diplomat, Polish ambassador in London and Minister of Foreign Affairs Edward Raczyński, gave their obedience to Zaleski, recognizing that he extended his presidential term of office outside the Constitution. Perhaps we should not remind us of the fine initiative of the establishment of the Western Cross, of certain disputes which shared the Polish emigration at that time and did not give us a good testimony in Western Europe, but, as I said, it is just a small remark that does not change the essence of things. As I said, the initiative to establish the Western Cross is right. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz15, will present the position of this club in relation to this project. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the Senate draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross, prints no. 1294 and 1395. In general, I'm not getting a divorce. Of course, the law concerns the honoring of people of non-Polish nationality and foreign organizations, it concerns those who over the half century, i.e. in the years 1939 and 1989, solidarity with Poland and Poles - both during the period of World War II and during the period of communism, deep communism, in the years 1980 and 1989, when Solidarity was born and when Solidarity was crushed during the period of martial law. So that we believe that this is the second very important award after the Eastern Cross, in fact it is a complement of it. We fill a loophole, show that we appreciate heroes, because that's what they're called, those people that we're going to honor in the future. In view of the above, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 supports the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the draft law on the establishment of the Western Cross. The award is to be awarded to persons and foreign organizations who provided assistance to Poles or Polish citizens in the years 1939 and 1989. It would be granted to both living and postmortem persons, e.g. RAF pilots, New Zealand families, who took care of children leaving eastern areas with Anders' army, politicians supporting the Polish government in exile or opposition during the period of the Polish People's Republic. We all remember this period, there were so many cases, the aid flowed from very many sides. Poland was then a country surrounded by friendship and sympathy. Today we have to repay this debt. This form of repayment is also the award of awards. These awards can also be awarded to organisations that help Poles, not only natural persons. The cross is to be awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the initiative of the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or of the Associations and Associations of Combatants, social organizations, as well as the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed after obtaining a positive opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to remind you that on 15 December Parliament established a complementary award, the Eastern Cross, dedicated to people helping Poles in the former Eastern Knights. At the moment, this project complements this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, as Marshal Piłsudski used to say: A nation that does not respect its past, does not respect its heroes, does not respect those who helped it in these most difficult times, does not deserve respect for the present, nor does it have the right to the future. It's an important sentence. We have to remember that. We will support this project during the procession in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u80	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party welcomes and welcomes the Senate's initiative to establish the Western Cross as a token of gratitude to all those who, in 1939 and 1989, had solidarity with Poles, Polish citizens and provided various assistance to our fellow countrymen during the war, slavery and foreign domination. There is no doubt that during the time when the Polish nation resisted both German Nazism and the Soviet occupation, we received real and tangible help from foreign organizations who, in the face of a threat of life, provided assistance, support and shelter, as well as charity aid. Good must be reciprocated with good, and surely with memory, respect, and gratitude. With this in mind, the Senator's Chamber has taken the initiative to establish the Western Cross as a symbol of gratitude. The project that we are working on in this House today is a symbol of our gratitude for helping in the work of Polish independence aspirations, helping the oppressed, persecuted, deported, imprisoned or finally, not of our own free will, forced to emigrate. The Law of 15 December 2016 established the Eastern Cross, but did not cover the merits of Western charity and charity organisations or private individuals. It should be fully agreed that the Western Cross will be broadcast by the President of the Republic of Poland and the requesting authority will be the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. Agree with the provision of Article. 3 with the procedure for granting this special award. It is also appropriate to agree with the proposed cross badge described in detail in the committee's report. The powers of the President of the Republic of Poland to issue a regulation concerning the design of the application and the detailed procedure for dealing with the assignment of the cross, the manner and circumstances of wearing it seem obvious and do not raise any objections. As in any other matter, and in the case of the contested law, the law governing awards and decorations in general was rightly adopted as a basis. High Izbo! Polish People's Party tied to the tradition of independence with satisfaction and great joy will be supported in the vote by the report of the committee on printing no. 1395. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Four people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask a question. Would any of you like to join this list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that the proposal to establish the Western Cross is very good, and it is a pity that the Polish state is only now taking this kind of action. However, I would like to ask whether the projector is considering introducing, for example. the annual limit of natural and legal persons that may be designated. Second question: How much does the designer estimate the number of awards that may be awarded? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u83	Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Kukiz, sorry, Law and Justice. [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u84	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the Western Cross will be granted by the President of the Republic to foreigners who, in 1939 and 1989, gave shelter or other kind of assistance to Poles or Polish citizens in the face of a threat of life, repressed, persecuted, deported or forced to emigrate by the German occupier and communist authorities in post-war Poland. I have a question. Why will the Western Cross be granted to specific people and organisations that have been helping Poland for many years are ignored? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Uruski, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u86	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The establishment of the Western Cross for foreigners who provided shelter or assistance to Poles in 1939 and 1989 in the face of a threat is an extremely important initiative. In this connection, I have a question: What instruments will you have for finding, verifying and developing history, the President, who will award this award to those who intend to mark it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u87	Last question - Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of people who helped Poles during World War II, it will certainly be more difficult, but we can still reach many people helping Poles during the martial law. They have been contacted by the NSZZ National Commission for Solidarity, regional management, social organisations for the protection of human rights, many activists for Solidarity. Organization of doctors from England providing transports with drugs and clothing to the church of St. Stanisław Kostka, Polish Scouts from Great Britain, a great number of friends from France, Belgium and Germany - it is important for us to thank them to behave decently. My question is: Does the law provide for a way of organizing and reaching out to these environments, or does it refer to other regulations in this regard? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Legal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u89	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jan Dziedziczak. You're welcome. Before the Minister gives us any answers, I'd like to say hello to the guests at the gallery. These are children from the House of the Child in Jasień. [[Applause]] Greetings and enjoy your stay in the Seym and interesting experiences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a long-awaited act, it will be a tool to pay tribute, honor, to thank all those who risked for free Poland, for Poles who found themselves in a difficult situation, for those who put their work and strength into it. I agree with the views of your Members that this law is much too late, but it must have been conducive to this. The camp that rules Poland at the moment is sensitive to issues of national identity, history, and also to justice in the historical dimension. This tool, this award will also be a tool for the Polish state - it is a tool of thanks, but also cementing friendship between Poland, between Poles and representatives of other nations. It's a thank-you to us directly helping us or for example. Their descendants will be a great tool to make the awarded people, the decorated environments even more closely involved in activities conducive to Poland today - in the 21st century. I'm sure we can't ignore that. This is an additional dimension of today's diplomacy. Today's diplomacy. Diplomacy is also about the fact that old friendships, old alliances are cemented, nurtured, and it will be another tool for this positive care. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the questions of your Members, this law imposes additional obligations on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but these are the duties we enjoy. These are good responsibilities and we will be happy to carry them out. I will answer your questions. Mr Kukiz asked if there would be a limit. There will be no limit, there will be no limit. When it comes to respect, how many people, how many entities can be marked, we find it difficult to say right now. Here I come to the next questions of your fellow Members, who asked about the procedure, how this will be done - among other things. asked Mrs Tomaszewska. This is of course a great challenge for Polish consular services, i.e. for representatives of Poland abroad dealing with contact with Poles, care of Poles, over Polonia and over friends of Poland, over Polish heritage abroad. So here, of course, will be the initiative of our consular services, which have already developed a map of such entities, to which it is worth to say thank you on behalf of the Republic of Poland. But also here, from this point - the best probably to this appeal - I would like to appeal to all NGOs abroad, Polish organizations, associations, historical organizations, to our territorial consulates, where the subject would be awarded, to present ideas, proposals, because we may not know everything either. If we act together, we simply reach more people - also those forgotten, because the aim of this project is to reach those forgotten - we will get there. As far as Mrs Wróblewska's question is concerned, the organisations are included in this project, unless you make some amendments, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not interfere with it anymore, the High Chamber is making decisions here, naturally. Our opinion is that it would be good if the organizations were that this is also a good tool and sometimes different actors in the gym have their merits. As for Mr Uruski's question, we will answer in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[I'm sorry, but that partial answer is only there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u91	Thank you so much for your answer. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u92	Thank you very much. I understood these questions so that they were also partly addressed to me as rapporteur, but at the same time as representing the club Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made my first explanations and one amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - to the Marshal of the Sejm - concerning just...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u93	Mr President, I would like to remind you that you are speaking as rapporteur at the moment, not as a member representing the Law and Justice Club, so please do not discuss this amendment, but as a possible answer to questions, because if you bring the subject to the amendment, I will unfortunately be forced to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u94	No, she asked specifically about the organisations, which is why I wanted to address the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u95	Then answer the question, not refer to your own amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u96	Yes. Ms Krystyna Wróblewska asked a question, Mrs Marshal, about organisations and persons, and I would like to answer as rapporteur that there was a discussion at the committee meeting and that is why this amendment appeared. I will not talk about the amendment then, but I will talk about the substance of this discussion, which concerned both the organisation and the people. Well, in all other cases, all the other decorations given by the President are not the rule in the Destiny Act that crosses, awards, awards to organizations are granted. The whole Polish legal culture when giving such distinctions comes down to people, to specific people, which does not mean, and it is also as a result, the effect of our discussion in committee - as a rapporteur I would like to remind you - that organizations will not be honoured in this way, because by granting the Western Cross to the President of an organisation or group of persons who operate in a given organisation, they grant a cross to a given person, but also to that person as a person who has performed or performed a specific function, because of this function. For example, she was the head of the trade unions that helped.Solidarity as a twin trade union, wasn't she? So this is how the organization is also honored, and in this way these organisations are appreciated. With this bill - this is also the result of our discussion and as if the intention of the projector - there is no rule that only one person from a particular organization or trade union or association can grant a cross, but there is a principle that it can also be many people. There was a question by Mr Maciej Masłowski about the limit of decorations. There's no limit to that. It's hard to tell today, but I can imagine a situation like this very easily. If in a given organization, often tens of thousands, for example, let us remind you. In the 1980s, when Poland was helped by powerful trade unions from Western Europe, which last for decades, often reaching the end of the 19th century, many people were involved, this means that you can imagine the situation that many people from this organization will be awarded. In this way, the organization will also be appreciated. I would also like to address the questions of Mr Piotr Uruski and Mrs Eve Tomaszewska with another word, because these are questions which, in fact, come down to what instruments or how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the President will reach those who could be identified, and whether he will use the Minister or representatives of the Polish diplomatic offices or the President's law firm a great deal of work, for example.Solidarity or other Polish organizations, including Polish organizations, who have knowledge of this subject. To be honest, I would also like to draw your attention - and thank you very much, Minister, for having responded that this will be new tasks. - that it will be a good task, and that means that it is a huge opportunity and opportunity for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as for the President's law firm to strengthen cooperation with Polish organizations, to strengthen cooperation with And in this way, I only imagine it that way, we will gain knowledge of the subject. Because it is often the case that those who have helped, usually in the world, do not boast about it - they simply do not boast about it - while an organization such as the Solidarity Organization, when it comes to years of martial law, or for example. Polish emigration, this emigration, which has archives after World War II, also has a lot of knowledge and has a large resource of documents testifying to those who helped. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs: - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the social security system, - a government bill amending the Social Security Act and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (prints No. 1256, 1306 and 1398). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in print No. 1398 on the draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System, print No. 1256, and on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Social Insurance System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No. 1306. The print project No 1256 was submitted to the Sejm by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on 20 January 2017 and its main objective is to abolish the instrument of compulsory punishment for the institution serving the payment of contributions and contributions who made a mistake in the documents transferred to the Social Insurance Institution. Currently from the content of the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c of the Social Insurance Act shows that an additional fee is made compulsory by the Social Security Office when two conditions are met in total: firstly, the Social Security Office did not transfer to OFE a contribution to the insured person within the statutory deadline, secondly, the fault for the failure of the Social Security Office is on the payer of the contributions or the institution serving the payment of the contributions, which results from the failure to provide or incorrect transfer to the Social Insurance Institution by those entities to the Social Insurance Institution, the declaration of the payer of the contributions, the monthly registered report, the billing declaration, the payment document or the payment order. Thus, this applies when mistakes have been made, not to non-payment. An additional fee shall not be charged if it does not exceed PLN 2. This is again the case in the present state, because there was also a situation that the limit amount from which no fee is charged was PLN 6.60. This project was generally approved, although the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of pension societies also appeared. In my view, this is due to a misunderstanding of the proposed solutions, as the House in its opinion even stresses that the implementation of the proposed changes could lead to the abuse by employers of the resulting legal gap by avoiding the payment of contributions due to OFE to the Social Security Office. I would like to emphasise once again, as I have already said, that this change, the removal of this additional fee, concerns an additional charge imposed by obligation for mistakes made. This does not apply to the additional fee referred to in previous provisions, when the Social Security Office may grant the payer an additional fee of up to 100% unpaid contributions. So when the payer doesn't pay, the ZUS still has the option to charge an additional fee. This opinion also stated that the explanatory memorandum provided only an average additional fee of one year, from 2014, but also that this average fee could be PLN 14 and here the Chamber claims that otherwise it could be up to 20,000. zł. Which is why I want to stress that I think this is a little bit of a misunderstanding, because such an additional fee would in no way be possible, because this additional fee, that is to calculate it for some longer period than the contribution to be paid... If there is therefore a limitation of the base, e.g. In 1999, it was 52,000, to an open fund, if I remember correctly, then I think 7.5%. so even if in one month the payer would have received such income and had such high contributions when these errors were committed, it is still impossible that this additional fee would have been worth thousands of PLN, not to mention 20,000. zł, because this contribution would be much, much lower and even during these years the charged additional fee could not have come out like this. The average additional fee, of course, was in the justification of this project given from 2014, but from the opinions prepared by the Sejm Analysis Office, e.g. of the opinion of 9 December for the period 1999 to 2010 for all these years, the average fee of one decision was PLN 15.54 and for 2015 the fee was PLN 13.59. So she absolutely didn't influence that benefit, that fee transferred to OFE would have any effect on the insured person. The project was referred to first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, which started working on it at its meeting on 22 February. The government bill amending the Social Security Act and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws from print No. 1306 entered the Sejm on 14 February this year. The first reading took place at the Sejm meeting on 8 March, and then the Sejm sent the draft to the committee. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting on 22 March 2017 decided to consider both projects jointly and as a leader we adopted the government project. The primary objective of the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Social Insurance System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws is to introduce a uniform standard of identification of the payer of social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Pension Fund. The project assumes the introduction of individual contribution accounts for contributors to which a single payment for all the charges to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect will be made. In the current legal situation, pursuant to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 4 of the Act of 13 October 1998 on the social security system, the contributors are obliged to pay contributions to bank accounts with separate payments broken down into social security, health insurance, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Pension Fund. So the payer is obliged to make up to four monthly payments. Most often, contributions to the Pomeranian Pension Fund relate not to such a large number of payers, but with regard to the remaining three payments, thousands of payers have to make three transfers each month, pay three transfers, and unfortunately there is a threefold higher risk of making mistakes. Although this has been in place since 1999, it has not even undergone major changes, and because of the adoption of such a solution in the 1998 Act, this raises many problems. Payments often make mistakes, precisely those errors that have been punished with additional charges. Therefore, in our opinion, in the opinion of the committee, this solution will make the life of the payers much simpler, in colloquially speaking. The draft law requires the establishment to generate by 31 December 2017 the number of individual contribution accounts for payers of contributions entered in the Central Register of Payments for Contributions at the date of entry into force of the Act within a time limit allowing them to be effectively informed and made available to those accounts the payment of contributions for January 2018. The proposed solution will fundamentally change the way in which payment accounts are cleared and will be widely used, e.g. also in the case of short-term benefits rights for insured persons who are subject to voluntary benefits. To put it simply, when it comes to payers who pay their own contributions, i.e. business people, it is voluntary to join sickness insurance and they must pay their contributions in time to be subject to this insurance. And so far, the question of how to describe the payment has often affected whether the insured person was entitled to this benefit or not. Today - in my opinion, I think that also the committee which is proposing this proposal to the High Sejm, as will be concluded, acceptable - will greatly simplify the situation and the payers, and serve the payers by the Social Security Office. The draft also clarifies certain provisions of the Social Insurance Act and arranges these provisions. In addition, the proposal proposes, as in this parliamentary case, the repeal of Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c-10g, i.e. repealing the rules on the levying of an additional fee, and giving a new wording to the paragraph. 10h and 10i. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, following the first reading of the print project No 1256 on 22 February and the examination of the above draft laws at its meeting on 22 March 2017, invites the High Sejm to approve the draft law annexed to print No 1398. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u99	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Halina Szydleko will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Social Security, print No. 1256, and on the Government bill amending the Act on Social Security and the Act amending the Labour Code and some other laws, print No. 1306. The proposed solutions were certainly expected. To date, business people have been obliged to pay several types of contributions: social security, health insurance, Labour Fund, Post-Most Pension Fund. Each of these groups of contributions was paid into separate bank accounts, which meant that three and in some cases even four transfers should have been made each month. The project introduces individual premium accounts for which one payment will be made for all the charges to which the Social Insurance Institution is obliged to collect. The number of the new account will be assigned by the Social Insurance Institution and will become the new identifier of the payer of the contributions. The project provides that the undertaking will be responsible for the distribution of funds between individual funds and their managers. Changes will reduce the amount of information provided on payment documents, thus reducing errors made by payers and improving the settlement system with the Social Security Office. The number of payments to be processed by banks' IT systems and the Social Security Office will also decrease annually from 65 million to around 27 million, so this is a significant decrease. The project also addresses the introduction of facilitations for contributors when it comes to the issue of certificates of non-payment by the Social Security Office. This will be possible through legal alignment of paper certificates and electronic printouts produced by the payer from ZUS electronic systems. In addition, the payer and the insured will have faster access to information about the balance of the account, and the clearing system will be simplified using modern financial solutions. It is justified to adopt a uniform model of compensation for late payment of contributions to OFE in the form of interest paid by the Social Security Office without detailed analysis of whose fault this delay occurred. In addition, the purpose of this draft law is to clarify certain provisions so as to eliminate differences in interpretation. Given that the proposed amendments aim to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Social Insurance Institution, the Law and Justice Club supports this project and will vote in favour of it. However, we are proposing an amendment on the basis of Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. This amendment is based on the fact that Article. 1 point (10) (a) g is replaced by the following: If the contribution has not been transferred to the open pension fund within the deadline, interest due shall be calculated from the establishment at the variable interest rate applicable for the subsequent three-month periods beginning on the first day of each calendar quarter. The variable interest rate shall be calculated as the arithmetic average of the reference rates of the National Bank of Poland in force during the period of 3 months until the end of the month preceding the last month before the beginning of the quarter concerned and shall be rounded to two decimal places. For the calculation of interest, the year is assumed to be 365 days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u101	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, prints No 1306 and 1398, after the meeting of the Social Policy and Family Committee held on 22 March 2017. The purpose of this Act, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is to implement the process of increasing the functionality of optimization of the public danin collection system for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. On 8 March this year. During the first reading of the Act on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I requested that the Act be addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in connection with numerous questions aimed at resolving doubts about avoiding chaos and additional burden on entrepreneurs and employees of the Social Insurance Institution. During the committee's work, the committee president did not give the opportunity to ask very important questions. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club amends this law by requesting the deletion of point 11 of point 11. and in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following paragraph is added: 1, which leaves the payer the possibility to decide on the order of payment, maintain or increase confidence in the institution of the State, and building trust in the institution of the State is the duty of Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that this law be passed on for further processing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u103	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Sitarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I begin the presentation of the position of the Kukiz Club 15 on print No. 1398, in relation to the report of 22 March 2017 of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy after first reading on the draft government-memory changes in the Social Security Act and the Labour Code Act and some other laws, prints No. 1256 and 1306. Here it is announced to eliminate the punishment of payers for errors in documents transferred to the Social Insurance Institution, the removal of additional fees is designed because of failure to submit or misapplication to social security, the declaration of the payer of contributions, the monthly registered report, the billing declaration, the payment document or the payment order, which will result in the ZUS not providing a contribution to the open pension fund. At the moment, the cost of deciding on an additional fee exceeds practically the profitability of handling this task. The second project envisages the introduction of the so-called. individual premium accounts for ZUS contributions payers to handle all claims. The changes concern the payers of social, health contributions, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, the Post-Most Pension Fund. Practically designed changes imply a thorough reform of compulsory contributions, which have been in place since 1999. The advantage of introducing a new system is likely to be to reduce the problem of numerical identification - REGON, PESEL, NIP, proof number, explaining incorrect data about the period for which the contribution is paid. And it should be stressed here that it is a shame that the pension reformers from 20 years ago were very shortsighted. If a simple, efficient pension system had been introduced then, the state budget would not have lost several hundred million every year, as is the case at this point. If the amounts of unidentified contributions are reduced, there is a chance to improve the balance of payments of the Social Insurance Fund. The list of other changes includes, among others, extension of the directory of contributions payers, the numbers of the contribution accounts will also be generated by the Social Security Office. If it is confirmed that the payer of the contributions is the payer of the contributions established by the Social Security Office, the documents relating to social security provided for in the Act for the period indicated in the decision shall be drawn up for that payer's office. Contributions unduly paid by the reporting agent to social security insured persons for the period indicated in the decision of the Social Security Office shall be declared ex officio against claims on contributions from the payer. A credit shall be made to the amount to be credited to, or, in the absence of, late or current contributions. For payers of contributions clearing contributions in separate declarations, the account numbers of the contribution account shall be generated separately for each of the declaration numbers. Each payment document must contain in particular the number of the contribution account. Of course, all reporting systems need to be simplified so that the service of the ZUS is much cheaper and more beneficial to the citizen, which will be discussed by a colleague of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u105	Thus, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz,15, will use the rest of the time allocated to this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the project is to eliminate the irrational instrument for penalising contributors who have made a mistake in the documents transferred to the Social Insurance Institution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c of the Social Insurance Act we read that in the event that the Social Insurance Institution has not transferred a contribution to an open pension fund on time due to failure to submit or transfer a misapplication to social security, the payer's declaration of contributions, a monthly registered report, a billing declaration, a payment document or a payment order, the Social Insurance Institution shall make an additional fee to the payer or an institution serving the payment of contributions. According to data collected in the ZUS in 2014, more than 12 thousand were released. decisions granting an additional fee of more than 170 000. zł. It is easy to calculate that the average amount of the surcharge is about 14 PLN, while the estimated cost of issuing one decision during this period was over 57 PLN. It is therefore difficult to disagree with the opinion of the projectors that these charges are an unnecessary burden for both the contributors and the Social Insurance Institution, and the costs associated with the payment of this fee are many times higher than the proceeds to the social security system. I think that both me and my colleagues at the Kukiz club15 enjoy the fact that Law and Justice, whenever they want, can go towards deregulation and elimination of unnecessary, life-disturbing laws for Poles. We ask for more of this kind of solutions. I think with pure pleasure I can recommend this bill to my club and consider it acceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Ms Joanna Augustynowska will give a speech. Before this happens, you will also allow me, and I will greet the students of the basic school in Zareku, the municipality of Dębowiec. [[Applause]] Hello and I hope you have a nice time in the Seym, watching how you work here and how the Seym looks from the inside. So have a nice trip. I will now ask the Member to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The individual account for contributors is a necessary simplification and a step forward. This is a major change in a complicated bureaucratic mechanism that will make life easier for taxpayers. But even small changes should be well prepared. Unfortunately, this is another bill prepared in chaos, without thinking, without listening to opposition or social partners. It's a sad rule that even with the good intentions of the PiS in haste, he stumbles over his own legs. It's exactly the same this time. The first unknown relates to an algorithm according to which the funds will be allocated to individual funds. The announcement shows that payments will now be counted against the oldest debts. Unfortunately, the government has not presented a draft regulation, so we do not know how this solution is to work in practice, and the situation of insured people will depend on these detailed provisions that we do not yet know. Short-term benefits, such as sickness or maternity benefits, depend on current contributions in the case of economic operators and those who pay their own contributions. Doesn't the principle of the settlement of the oldest claims deprive them of their right to benefits in this situation? Isn't a mistake in payment of 1 gr gonna cause you to take the right to benefits? Another example is the rapid change in Article. 83 of the current bill. What do we know? We know that the Social Security Office here has the power to decide who will be the payer of contributions and that there are no transitional provisions in the project, so these decisions will be able to go backwards. As I understand it, it's supposed to be a prescription for illegal avoidance of contributions. I do not criticize the intention again, but I doubt whether you have chosen the right tool: the huge power of ZUS officials and uncertainty for entrepreneurs. Doesn't this record just create more chaos? Once again, I would like to stress that chaotic legislation is not good for anyone. Give yourself and us a chance to work hard on projects to avoid mistakes. These mistakes are expensive for society as a whole. We support the general direction of the bill. It's a good step to reduce red tape. But without knowing the regulations, we have doubts as to whether the plans will be implemented. Less bureaucracy and administration for the citizen is a very good direction. We hope that when writing regulations there will be more caution and that the draft regulations will meet the expectations of the law and the thesis laid down in this law. Therefore, the Modern Club will support this project despite the lack of sufficient information on what it will ultimately look like to put this project into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u110	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System, the Government bill amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! In practice, the parliamentary project is reduced to the deletion from the Social Security Act art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c-10g, i.e. the provisions which impose an additional fee on the trader for late or incorrect registration in the ZUS documents as part of the monthly report, in the event that the undertaking was late in transferring the due contributions to the OFE. These additional fees are fixed by the Social Security Office in the form of a decision, and their amount depends on the amount of statutory interest and the amount not paid within the period of the contribution to the OFE. As a general rule, ZUS does not charge such fees if their amount does not exceed 2 PLN. According to official data, only in 2014 12 300 such decisions were issued for a total amount of more than 170 000. zł. The average fee, however, is only approx. 14 PLN and the estimated cost of one decision exceeds 60 PLN. It is therefore clear that the fees set out in these provisions are an unnecessary burden for both the contributors and the Social Insurance Institution, and the costs associated with the payment of this fee are many times higher than the proceeds to the social security system. This is how we can read in the justification submitted by the applicant. Ladies and gentlemen! The estimated savings resulting from the proposed amendment can therefore amount to several hundred thousand zlotys. The PSL Club sees the need to amend the Social Security Act in this respect. In our view, the deletion of the rules should save businesses and the Social Security Office and reduce the bureaucracy involved in the payment of contributions. At the same time, taking advantage of the situation that the issue of the Social Security Office and the obligations of entrepreneurs to pay contributions appear in the discussion, I would like to appeal to the current rulers to bend once again the amendment to the introductory provision from 2018 to the individual account number in the Social Security Office for each entrepreneur. The problem is that if the interested person does not receive information about the granting of such a number by the end of 2017 from the Social Security Office, he may be in trouble. The bill doesn't say anything about it. To put it simply, the entrepreneur himself will have to make sure that the ZUS gives him the bank account number. What happens if he doesn't see to it? We must not allow the entrepreneur to be blamed for the officials in this case. However, with regard to this amendment concerning the liquidation of penalties, the club of the Polish People's Party will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u111	Thank you very much. And on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both the parliamentary and the government bill contains changes that will improve the functioning of the social security system and make life easier for citizens. The most radical reform is, of course, the one which provides for the creation by the Social Insurance Institution for each trader of one individual account. In this way, instead of the monthly four transfers to different bank accounts, including social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Pension Fund, they will make one payment. This is a change that not only saves contributions' time, but above all simplifies the whole system and reduces the likelihood of errors. I have no doubt that the remaining solutions contained in the government project will have positive effects. These include changes in the way contributions are credited to the payers' account, so that claims are paid first, as well as in the case of employers who use employee outsourcing, giving the Social Insurance Institution the opportunity to re-account their payments. I also consider it beneficial to align legally the certificate of non-payment with the payment of contributions issued by the ZUS with the certificates that payers themselves can generate on the ZUS Electronic Services Platform. This is a major improvement in the process of obtaining certificates by entrepreneurs, which will give businesses concrete time savings. Nor is my objection raised by the amendment proposed in the parliamentary proposal. As indicated in the committee's work, the current obligation to make an additional levy for contributors whose errors in the documents transmitted to the Social Security Office translate into a delay at the time of the contribution to the open pension fund is linked to costs which are disproportionate to the revenue generated from it. I agree with the applicants that the abolition of this additional fee will generally contribute to improving the service of citizens in the Social Insurance Institution. Instead of charging interest which is well below the costs incurred by handling such an event, the employees of the establishment will be able to allocate time for direct handling and help the contributors not to make such errors. In this case, the old proverb will prove that it is better to prevent than to cure. As I mentioned at the outset, in my opinion, the two amendments that have been examined today have introduced the long-awaited simplifications and solutions to improve its operation, which will have a positive impact on the cooperation of the Social Insurance Institution with citizens. About Free and Solidarni will support both draft laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Six members were included in the list of Members. Is there anyone else on this list who wants to sign up? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask you as the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So far, it has been the entrepreneur who has decided whether to regulate current contributions or to pay arrears to ZUS. In line with the changes, repayment of arrears will take place automatically and the rules for such repayment are to be regulated only in the Regulation. Some companies may not even know that they will have new debts in current accounts, and this is a key issue, e.g. when they're taking part in the bidding. Hence my question: Shouldn't we construct the rules so as to require that the CSO informs about the arrears which are, and leave the payer to decide on the order of payment? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to data collected in the ZUS in 2014, it was released, as my colleague said, approx. 12 300 additional fee decisions with an average value of 14 PLN. However, the estimated cost of issuing one decision during this period was over PLN 57. Therefore, why does the legislator want to raise the threshold to PLN 2 and not even to the threshold of cost-effectiveness of initiating the procedure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u117	Thank you very much. Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Minister. Because the government project aside from these major changes... The purpose of preparing this project was also to... To a large extent, the Social Insurance Act sets some ambiguities, also affects certain inconsistencies and tries to correct limitation periods. I am specifically referring to the limitation period for decisions on liability of third parties or legal successors. According to Art. Paragraph 24 5d - if I remember correctly - this limitation period is 5 years from the end of the year in which the decision was issued. I came across a situation when the decision was finalized exactly after five years. That's when the ZUS couldn't claim it anymore, even though the Supreme Court said that... He left this decision to the ZUS, but the ZUS couldn't claim it anymore because it's been five years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] since the decision was taken. Shouldn't this be changed so that it's five years, but after the decision has become final? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law is expected by employers and will significantly reduce their bureaucratic burden and costs of transfers. I would like to ask if the estimated number or percentage of persons affected by this law has been estimated, and I am referring to the ratio of the number of errors made today and punished to the number of errors likely to occur under the new regulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice, I ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that the proposed changes were very expected by the payer. To date, business operators have been obliged to pay various types of contributions, which has contributed to many mistakes and widespread dissatisfaction of entrepreneurs. Will the introduction of individual premium accounts, to which one payment will be made for all debts to which the Social Security Office is obliged, improve the situation of the Polish payer and facilitate his business activity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u123	Thank you very much. One final question - Mr Piotr Uruski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u124	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Social Insurance Act concerns the liquidation of the instrument punishing contributors who made a mistake in documents transmitted to the Social Security Office. Question: "Will the proposed changes reduce the amount of information given on payment documents and to what extent will this improve the system?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u125	Thank you very much. I will ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki for answers to the questions asked. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is focused on two draft laws amending the Social Security Act: firstly, a parliamentary proposal on the issue of charging additional fees in the event of mispayment or non-payment of social security contributions and, secondly, a government project relating to a much wider spectrum of issues. I think that the course of the discussion shows that the issues, the solutions proposed in both drafts of the amendment of the law are not controversial. I would like to thank all the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs for their clear support for both draft laws. By the way, I would like to thank Mrs Barbara Bartus very warmly, [[Applause]] who made a huge effort to prepare the parliamentary bill, as well as the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which submitted the bill to the Sejm. As I said, the convergence of the proposals contained in the government project and in the parliamentary project led us to consider both projects together. In general, the subject of the government project is, one can say, the introduction of a new standard of services provided by the Social Insurance Institution: the standard that we know and which is already used for other types of payments - payments made in the private sector - a standard to which we are actually all accustomed. I mean the method of making payments for electricity or gas charges. We are used to the fact that each person making such a payment has an individual bank account number assigned to it. We all, I think, see the benefits of this solution. It can be said that the government project envisages the introduction of the same modern standard of services provided by the Social Insurance Institution for nearly 7 million contributors. This is one of the directions of the proposed solutions. The second is to simplify and re-bureaucratise procedures for the payment of social security contributions. The discussion raised the question of how the bill would make life easier for contributors, including entrepreneurs, employers. As I said, this is a project relating to 7 million contributors. In place of the existing four separate transfers, only one transfer will be carried out by the payer, while the allocation of funds to individual funds will be carried out by the payer, i.e. The Social Insurance Fund, the National Health Fund, together with the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Labour Fund, as well as the Bridge Pension Fund as the fourth of these transfers, the burden of calculating these funds and dividing them between all funds will be borne by the Social Insurance Institution. It can be said that the number of transfers and, therefore, the costs associated with these transfers will also be reduced four times, so it is undoubtedly a simplification, a rebureaucratisation, but also a reduction in the costs associated with the payment of social security contributions. At the same time, I would like to say that I do not share those concerns which were formulated during the discussion on the draft law, concerns concerning, above all, decisions relating to the establishment of contributions by the Social Insurance Institution. I would like to say that the Social Insurance Institution already has competence in determining the payer's contributions. Such decisions, determining who is subject to a premium obligation, are simply issued on the occasion of other decisions taken by the Social Insurance Institution, i.e. the decision to determine the social security obligation or the decision to set a premium obligation. In the context of the procedure for issuing such decisions, the Social Insurance Institution shall also determine who is subject to the premium obligation. As regards the role of the proposed provisions in the definition of the payer of contributions or the new Article. 38a of the law or a new provision in Article. 83 of the Act, the role of these provisions is in fact merely to clarify and unambiguously indicated that, in the event of doubt about who is the payer of the contributions, the Social Insurance Institution will be able to determine by decision who the obligation to pay the contributions rests on. With regard to the reason for introducing this provision, it is directly linked to the phenomenon of outsourcing of workers and - it can be said - with certain doubts, problems relating to the consequences of decisions by the labour courts to determine the apparent legal act of transferring workers to the new employer under Article. The 23rd Labour Code. The second concern that was raised during the discussion concerned the principle that the charges or contributions made by the payers would be credited to the oldest unpaid contributions. Of course, we are talking about a situation in which there are arrears, so this is a solution that - we have to say - aims to discipline the contributors to ensure that they carry out their contribution obligations in a timely and correct manner. We do not see the negative consequences of the introduction of this principle, in terms of - it can be said - the right to social security benefits. This is a solution, I would say, quite natural in a situation where, through the IT system and using the individual account of the payer, the contribution obligation will be implemented. As regards the remaining questions that were raised in the course of the discussion, the question was raised concerning the introduction of a threshold of PLN 2 for the decision to charge an additional fee. So in a government project, we generally give up the possibility of making such decisions at all. The provisions that provide for the possibility of imposing such an additional fee on the payer of the contributions, we simply propose to delete them. As regards the question of Mrs Barbara Bartus concerning the limitation period of claims and the different timing of the start of this 5-year limitation period, this is an interesting proposal. I can promise you we'll take a closer look at her and take a formal approach to her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u127	Mrs Barbara Bartus, the rapporteur of the committee, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u128	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the members of our committee for the smooth process of both projects. As an applicant for the parliamentary project, I would also like to thank you very much for supporting this project and at the same time refer to the question about the threshold of the additional fee. The parliamentary project, its meaning, its purpose in general concerned the total abolition by the Social Insurance Institution of the payment of an additional fee to payers or institutions serving contributions - an additional fee in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 10c. As rapporteur, I would also like to refer to the club speech when she alleged that no questions could be asked in committee. That is completely untrue. Madam President, Mrs Beata Mazurek, during the committee's proceedings, always asked whether there were any comments, whether there was opposition, and I would remind you that the government's proposal to amend the Social Security Act and to amend the Labour Code and other laws had the first reading at the Sejm meeting, so it was also possible to ask unlimited questions. Similarly, in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the question at every moment of the process was whether anyone wanted to refer was asked. Nobody was willing to discuss it. Yes, there was such a will outside the committee, but at a time when we were already in the process of voting on the whole project. So that I consider this accusation to be completely unhappily, untruthful, and at the same time thank you very much that we managed to re-schedule these two projects so quickly, because the changes that are in them, in my opinion, are very expected. It is also important that this project is adopted as soon as possible to give time to the Social Insurance Institution so that it can prepare for these key changes, because this requires changes in the IT system. And maybe one more thing. There was often an opinion about the possibility of making payments differently than the Social Insurance Institution wants. There's never been a situation like this. Today's regulations also specify exactly where payments are settled, and although the payer will describe the payment, however, when they are paid, the regulations specify exactly how these payments should be settled, where the payment exceeds this month or this month is covered, or sometimes the payment is wrongly described. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u129	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a further report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 4 on the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act (prints 1126 and 1413). Mr Michał Cieślak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act, print No 1126. The Sejm at its 37th meeting of 9 March 2017 pursuant to Article. 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for deregulation for review. The Extraordinary Commission on deregulation after reconsidering this draft law at its meeting on 23 March 2017 undertook work in a broad area of the impact of this project on the pharmaceutical market, the pharmacies market in such a way that, by introducing several detailed amendments, it led to the adoption of provisions which, in the original wording of the draft law, assumed that only a public or partner company, in which partners are only persons who have the right to pursue the profession of pharmacists, would be able to obtain permission to operate the pharmacy in the future, while the amendment introduces a significant change in the planned reform of the retail system of medicines supply in Poland in such a way that Polish entrepreneurs, not only pharmacists, would be able to run the pharmacy. In view of the above, the High Sejm, the committee recommends the adoption of a law in the scope presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u131	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will ask Mr Tomasz Latos to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u132	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act, prints 1126 and 1413 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had the opportunity to present a debate on this issue in connection with the initial negative opinion of the deregulation committee. I will therefore shorten my speech to remind you of some of the most important elements about why this law is needed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it should be said that the freedom that exists on this market in Poland is basically unique from the point of view of what is in many EU countries, and it is those EU countries which are called upon by many communities in Parliament, recalling various kinds of solutions related to one or another area of the economy or health protection. So let's be clear: most places do not have such a situation that you can create a pharmacy in an absolutely free way and without any control, often one next to the other, without paying attention to any demographic criteria or distance criteria. Therefore, in order to regulate this situation in some way and to take care of the interests of the patients and, above all, to take account of the interests of the patients, and not only of the short-sighted ones, but also of the long-term and long-term ones, the group of Members took this initiative. This initiative, which Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports. In addition, we will make appropriate amendments to this draft law, because we believe that it is necessary to amend this law in order to fulfil its functions. Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly not in the interest of patients in the future - because no one is saying that this situation is at the moment - it is not in the interest of patients in the future to master the market through several networks, and in this direction this market can unfortunately be going in the future. So it seems that what we are seeing at the moment, or a certain balance - and so disturbed in favour of the network, but nevertheless the balance - between drugstores belonging to individual pharmacists or people who run these drugstores - while they are not united, they are not pharmacies existing within the network - and on the other hand belonging to the network, is healthy and necessary and it is not worth changing in any way. And so it is a risk that all these recent applications will lead to high saturation in places where pharmacies are at the moment, primarily network pharmacies at the expense of individual pharmacies. It therefore appears that the proposals contained in the draft law should satisfy everyone. In new places where these pharmacies at the moment there are no new settlements and other similar places, there will be freedom to open them, while there will be some freeze and some status quo in those places where this saturation is very large. One more thing. If existing in Poland and functioning networks were to operate ethically in a business sense and there would be no doubt about it, probably such laws would not be necessary. There are examples of where a pharmacy is created, not because of the existing need, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only to open a pharmacy door to the door and eliminate the competition of a single pharmacist, because the network can temporarily reduce the price, and it is certainly not something that should be praised from a business point of view and even a liberal approach. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I make appropriate amendments to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u133	Maria Małgorzata Janyska is speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law is mysterious, and it is still mysterious, states, and this mysteriousness indicates the way in which this law is working and the discrepancy between the objectives which have been mentioned in the explanatory statement and the actual consequences that this law will cause. Mr Latos, the rapporteur, has also increased this mystery here... [[I'm not the rapporteur.]] ...sorry, making a statement on behalf of the club, this mystery increased even more, because it made an appropriate - as he said - amendment, and we don't know what it is. Because it seemed that at the last committee meeting, you already made those mistakes you thought were mistakes, you fixed them, but you didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, this ambiguity of the objectives I am talking about relates to the behaviour of you while you are proceeding on your own project. You introduced him to the Sejm, then it was sent to the committee, then at the committee meeting you filed a motion to reject this bill. And that was a very good and reasonable behaviour, because this is a very bad law that will have very bad consequences for consumers, because this law restricts competition and, as a result, consumers will pay a lot more for medicines than before, but you haven't - unfortunately, which I regret - the force of breakthrough and you haven't protested when this project came back to committee, although nothing has changed since. You have made one amendment, but you have maintained the criteria that restrict competition. You're doing the opposite of what you're wearing. As I said, the effect will certainly be that the price of medicines for customers will increase. You try to manually control and manually indicate the location of the pharmacies on the basis of determining the minimum distance that must be between them in a straight line. My question is simple: Where are the places of services for the population located? Are they located where the population is, or are they located in the field? And that can happen if these criteria are respected. You are creating barriers for entrepreneurs already in this market and creating barriers for new potential entrepreneurs. In addition, you close the way of many pharmaceutical graduates to this profession and to the opportunity to work independently in this profession, because there will be no place, there will be 500 m in the location for them, which would help them to work alone. Few of this, this law you also want to influence, which is in my opinion and in the opinion of many non-constitutional persons, and command what form of organizational and legal pharmacy is to have, because legal persons are not included here in the mentioned entities which may run pharmacy. How does that even apply to the constitutional principle of economic freedom? And all of this, once again, will focus on the end user of the service. And even if you don't want to listen to the opposition anymore, because you don't, listen to the UOKiK and listen to the development and finance ministers who also point to these shortcomings. The President of the UOKiK says that the introduction of such a wide range of rules that reduce freedom of competition can lead to a reduction in the creation of new pharmacies, a reduction in their number and, as a result, an increase in the price of medicines for consumers. The Minister for Development and Finance says otherwise, which also indicates that this will result in the possibility that these solutions could translate significantly into price increases. And yet, to the Member who made a statement on behalf of the PiS Club, I will quote another assessment, the Ministry of Development and Finance, because you said that this project is beneficial to patients, that changes are necessary and beneficial. The Minister of Development says this: in general, the Polish model of regulation of the pharmacy sector is beneficial for patients, especially in terms of drug prices. For this reason, there is no need to make revolutionary changes, e.g. in the ownership structure. Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly have these opinions, and you certainly know them. It is mysterious - as part of the riddles that are related to this law - unfortunately also the behaviour of the Minister of Health, who should take responsibility for regulating the pharmaceutical market and agree to the proposal which was submitted by the applicants at the original meetings at which this project was examined, to include this in the consideration of the entire major proposal for changes to the pharmaceutical law. Because in order to include this unpleasant, and perhaps it would be appropriate to say the apheral, project, please, because if it is a government project, then it is known that there is an impact assessment of the regulation, it needs to be carefully analysed, consulted and evaluated. This project is very big, very complicated, just when it comes to these goals, and quite difficult to repair. If he's not changed, then the Civic Platform Club will vote against him, [[♪ The bell ♪]] unless our amendments, which I hereby make, are taken into account and concern the deletion of distance requirements because they are difficult to implement, for example. in a straight line can be more than 500 m, and the customer, ladies and gentlemen, will not go across the roundabout, through the intersection or through the underground passage, or for example. by tram tracks. We also request that this requirement concerning the number be eliminated...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u135	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u136	I'm on my way to the end, yes. ...inhabitants, because he is also difficult to calculate, because he does not consider e.g. the degree of urbanisation or the function of a given locality, which may be academic, touristic, and thus periodically also a completely different population is present there. And, of course, we are asking that legal persons also be allowed to run pharmacys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club... [[In corrigendum mode, I'd like to ask you very much.]] Mr President, I said that I am not giving you the floor now. Sit down and let me hold the sitting. [[But I'm not disturbing you.]] Sit down, sir. I'll decide whether to give you the floor or not, but not right now. Then sit on the bench. Here you go, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. [[The adjustment is done immediately, Marshal, I'm sorry. I've been summoned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are dealing with a horrible monster, a project that undermines the interests of the public, the interests of society, patients, customers, and is in the interests of a narrow group. What's more, this project has a very suspicious origin. This is what I was talking about earlier from the Seym tribune, talking about huge groups of lobbyists who work for this project. And what happened after my speech? I got a letter from one of the pharmaceutical wholesalers. In this letter it says: we are appalled that - the name of the company - is branded from the stand of the institution which constitutes the law. Well, as it happens, I didn't name this company. Hit the table and the scissors will talk. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this reveals how much pressure is placed on these groups that will benefit from it. There are great pressures from other groups as well. This law is a huge revolution that will completely change the functioning of the pharmacy market. As a result, a huge group will gain, a huge group will lose. The lobbying pressures are huge. I was talking about filing a notice to the relevant authorities to investigate whether lobbying methods not provided for in the lobbying bill were used. It so happens that such a notification to the CBA was submitted on 31 January by the Chamber of Commerce of Pharmacy and Pharmacy Owners. I will monitor the matter, and I hope that we will be able to explain what are the sources of this law, because this is about the interests of citizens. So much for the origin of this law, about the ambiguities connected with who has prepared this law, who will benefit from it, because, as I said, citizens will certainly not gain. I'd like to get to the bottom of this. Every record of this law is in the interest of the citizen. We're dealing with a limitation that the owner of a pharmacy can only be a pharmacist and you can only have four drugstores. Who's gonna benefit from that? As I said before, it is in the interests of pharmaceutical wholesalers that the market is as fragmented as possible in order to be able to marketly impose higher drug prices on pharmacies and thus impose these prices on patients. Who's gonna lose? Citizens, of course. We have a second record, which is a geographical criterion, which says that at some distance you can't open a second pharmacy. In whose interest is this record? In the interest of people who already own drugstores. These people want a local monopoly to own a pharmacy here, and the monopoly, as we know, involves higher prices and lower quality. Who's gonna lose on this? Citizens. Another harmful record is a demographic criterion that says that if there is already a pharmacy of 3,000. Inhabitants, it's another pharmacy that can't be built. This is another sanctioning of the monopoly, which will unfortunately lead to higher prices and lower quality. Who's gonna lose on this? Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to correct. The whole bill's good for basketball. At the committee meeting, I tabled amendments which remove all of these harmful provisions in turn. I am pleased that on the part of the Members of Law and Justice and Poland, together, an amendment has been tabled removing one element, namely the principle of a pharmacy for a pharmacist. This amendment was accepted at the committee meeting, and I have already heard that the Sejm Analysis Office has received an inquiry, an opinion has been drawn up which says that this good amendment is unconstitutional because it does not cover all forms of legal personality because it excludes public limited companies. I have therefore prepared a number of amendments. It is mainly about the amendment that corrects this error so that there is no doubt about the constitutionality of the amendments, and excludes this principle of pharmacy for all. Pharmacy will be able to be run by all legal personalities. Like I said, all records are bad, and some are just horrible. With regard to the geographical criterion that a pharmacy cannot be opened in a straight line, a river may flow, the actual distance may be several kilometres, and this law will apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I am now handing over the technical amendments to your marshal, but I hope that no vote will be necessary on them, because this harmful bill will be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. I just have a request, sir. [[Yes?]] Because there's no stamp, it's called. fax machine, I don't know who signed it. [[Of course, I'm gonna get a stamp.]] Please, there's still time to report, just remember to do it by the end of the procedure. It's about the stamp of the person who signed it or the signed signature. First, Mrs Joanna Schmidt and then Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Pharmaceutical Law Act is an idea that provokes controversy, to put it mildly, although I know that the project is assessed differently depending on what environment these opinions express. It is paradoxical that this project went to the deregulation committee, which is to deal with deregulation of various areas of the economic sphere. If we want to talk about actual deregulation, the amendment currently proposed is unacceptable by the Modern Club. Let me remind you that deregulation is, for example, a reduction in the impact of the State on the price, on price fixing or on the quality of goods and services. Is there no authorisation for pharmacies in municipalities where there are less than 3 000. Citizens, is that a restriction on freedom of business? Yes. Is there no authorisation for running a pharmacy if another is less than 1 km away, that is to say, a business restriction? Definitely. Is the absence of a permit for persons who run four pharmacy or more pharmacies a business restriction? Yes. I will only mention some of the consequences of the proposed amendment. I will be assisting here with the analysis carried out by the Civil Development Forum. If the authorisation to run a new pharmacy would not be granted in municipalities where there are less than 3 000. inhabitants per pharmacy, and places where the distance from the nearest pharmacy is less than 1 km, this criterion would cause that a new pharmacy could not be created in any voivodship city. The tightening of the pharmacies regulation goes against European liberalisation trends. In recent years, as many as 17 countries have liberalised authorisation rules, only four have tightened those rules. pharmacies in Poland are already over-regulated and patients suffer. Rigid prices of refunded medicines prevent competition at price level. Previously, there were only maximum prices for medicines. At the moment, price competition may take place. only in the case of medicines obtained without a prescription. The proposed regulation in the long term will reduce the productivity of pharmacies and higher pharmacies. For customers pharmacies in the longer term this means higher prices and lower service quality. Besides, the concreteisation of the pharmacies market will make individual pharmacies and small networks never grow. Individual pharmacy will also have a problem with changing locations. Any transfer of a pharmacy will involve the risk that another establishment, even in the immediate vicinity, will not meet the population criterion, the geographical criterion. I would like to point out that in pharmacies, as in the entire economy, companies with higher productivity, which is higher, provide higher average wages for workers. In view of the above doubts, the Modern Club will vote against the draft amendment in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u141	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will no longer go back to how it is procedated and what marks this law bears, because in my opinion it is from the beginning to the end of the lobbying bill, which is prepared outside the parliament. And I must say that I am very surprised, because your boss, Minister Radziwił, was outraged by how some Members here were asking for private clinics at the hospital network bill, said that it was outrageous that you could perform here on behalf of private clinics. You support a law that simply works for the benefit of several economic operators. So I am very surprised that there is such inconsistencies in assessing the support of certain laws. As far as this bill is concerned, we have prepared three amendments. We believe that it is appropriate to allow networks that have more than four pharmacies to lose their seat because of the fact that they have been refused a lease agreement to obtain a concession within the framework of the pool which they had on the date of the entry into force of the Act. The second amendment concerns the extension of the scope of authorisation for legal entities and companies governed by commercial law, because this is... You have such a gift of hiding uncomfortable opinions for yourselves. BAS explicitly said that this is a law which is unconstitutional and incompatible with the Treaty on European Union. I don't know why, just like the Minister of Development and Finance's opinion, he's somehow out of circulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third amendment concerns the procedure so that those who have already submitted proposals can be treated on the basis of the previous provisions of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u143	And to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to ask Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to take the floor and present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. High Seym! One might say at the outset that here we have another installment of the game led by the ruling group, a game that can be called, a little ruggedly, but appropriately: and I would give, and I am afraid. Because how else can we describe this behaviour of the members of the PiS club, which I described in detail in previous speeches, which can be described and summarised as a procedure for introducing a draft law to the Sejm, but with such records, with such content, with which we disagree at the same time? As a result, after many weeks of maneuvers, the Sejm's decision has returned to work in committee, and the result of this work is the report that we are currently working on. And that is how interested I know, and I inform the others, the basic principle behind this project - a pharmacy for the pharmacist, with votes, and indeed, the PiS Members have been deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the sovereign has given you full power, but also responsibility, I will stress responsibility. This attitude cannot be concealed from the voter's assessment, from the evaluation of Poles. By the way, this attitude of the PiS is not only about this very important act, but I will remind you that when working on the bill on the protection of the conceived life, and it is not only during this term of office, it resembles a game with Marshal Mark Jurki in the fifth term. Another example is customs. Before the election: yes, we support you, we include you in the uniform system. After the election: National Tax Administration, photo of uniforms, wardrobe uniform and, what you think, the case is over. I want to stress: it seems. Such examples of attitudes, actions called hypocrisy, can be presented repeatedly - the law on tree cutting, the law on hunting compensation and others. I can fill out the whole speech with this, but I'm getting back to the point. High Seym! Once again, we are facing a fundamental decision: whether the pharmacy is a health care facility with all the consequences, or one of many with an undefined store profile. I am aware of the problems that PiS Members are facing. Well, you have a problem, a real problem. So far, the single text line of political proceedings, and here's a surprise, is the choice: the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers for removing the idea of a pharmacy for a pharmacist, the Minister of Health - against, the government's position in full absence. And how do you choose here? Such a division in government is indeed a puriazum, which leads directly to the question: Who is in charge here and do we still have a government? High Seym! This may be for the support of several quotations from judgments, judicial orders and supervision. The Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw on 13 August 2015 stated that only an independent pharmacist carrying out his professional duties under appropriate conditions ensures that the objective is achieved in the form of public health protection and that the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist in a pharmacy belonging to e.g. to the pharmacies network causes a practical dependence of the pharmacist on the owner, which does not necessarily have to be a pharmacist. So many quotes from the administrative court. I am aware that you are the PiS in the war against the courts, and you have probably taken this sentence with irony. This may be another argument: the Court of Justice of the European Union has also stated, here, that unlike a pharmacy operator who holds a diploma from a pharmacist, it cannot be denied that it seeks, like other persons, to achieve profits, but it is considered that as a professional pharmacist it operates a pharmacy not only to achieve profits but also to carry out its professional duties. And one more record, this time the statutory: pharmacist, a pharmacist performing a profession of public trust fulfils his professional duties according to the knowledge and Code of Ethics of the Pharmacy of the Republic of Poland, guarantees the quality of pharmaceutical services provided, which consequently ensures the safety and quality of the medicinal product issued from the pharmacy. High Seym! We share this motto. We, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, share this motto and consistently defend the ethos of the pharmaceutical profession. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u145	Thank you very much. And on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the work on this project so far, it has been repeated on several occasions that pharmaceutical law needs major changes. We know that work on the regulation of this system is currently underway at the Ministry of Health, and the legislation that we are now proceeding with is part of the concepts adopted in the design of the new legislation. However, it is important that today, when we are debating this amendment, we are contributing to the introduction of important reforms for the apothecary market. There is no doubt that the main condition for this project was the introduction of the so-called. Pharmacies for a pharmacist, according to which only pharmacists with a right to pursue a profession would be allowed to open such an establishment. I agree with the opponents of this solution, who referred to them as non-constitutional, adversely affecting the competitiveness of existing pharmacies on the market and limiting their development. As I pointed out in my previous speech, the pharmacological education of the pharmacy owner does not give me enough certainty that, based on his business, he will put the patient's well-being above profit. Proper care of the patient is guaranteed by well-qualified staff of the pharmacy, not by the training of its owner. I therefore support the changes made to the proposal by the committee. I also have no objection to the amendment relating to the non-extension of the authorisation to operate the pharmacy at the time of the death of its owner if at least one of the heirs meets the requirements set out in the Act. What is particularly important to me in this project is that the solutions contained in it are the answer to existing pathologies on the pharmacy market, such as. share of pharmaceutical wholesalers or too much concentration of pharmacies in city centers and a complete lack of pharmacies on the outskirts. I am glad that these problems have been noticed and something is beginning to change in this matter. In addition, I hope that, as announced by the Ministry, we will soon proceed with a bill introducing a major reform of this area and that the solutions contained in it will be a suitable remedy for most of the already properly diagnosed ailments of this system. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u147	Thank you very much, Member. 20 people were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Would any of the Members like to join the question? Mr President, please sit down and do not interfere with me in the conduct of the sitting... [[How am I disturbing you?]] ...because I'm gonna have to take action that... [[Does the raised hand interfere with anything?]] ...will force me to apply the measures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. If I think I'll grant you the right to correct it, you'll hear it. Sit down and don't interfere with me running this meeting. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal.]] 20 people who signed up for the question. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. The time for questioning will be one minute, but before we begin... Mr... [[The raised hand is disturbing...]] Before we begin to ask questions, Mr Tomasz Latos on the issue of correction. Time - 1 minute. If, once again, Mr President, you are intruding, I will apply disciplinary measures. And now you have one minute. [[Kara.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u148	Dear Marshal! I think the raised hand... [[The Marshal makes two.]] ...nobody gets in the way of anything, as well as the proceedings...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u149	No, but for a long time, you've been taking the floor, interfering with my driving.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u150	No. That's not true. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to explain one thing, correct it. I have called on other countries in my speech, and I will therefore clarify. The criteria, for example distances, concern Austria, Croatia, France, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain... There's more to it than that. This has in no way reduced the availability or made it difficult for patients to function. [[It made it easier for the patients.]] I referred to these examples, so I clarified that it was clear that I was not referring to some imaginary examples, but to concrete ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u151	The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From previous discussions we already know a lot about the extremely difficult situation of the Polish pharmacist. Polish apothecary, because many of the owners of non-Polish capital are quite well. To sum up, the main majority of European countries are good at securing the interest of their own capital by reducing the number of pharmacies in one pharmacist's hand, in many countries limiting the possibility of having a pharmacy only by a pharmacist or by introducing a specific geography of pharmacies. All these actions are precisely securing the national interest and therefore the interests of their patients. The Germans have been nurturing it forever. Don't they care about the interests of their patients? Minister! The Polish government is clearly implementing the policy of recolonization of banks. Don't you think it is appropriate to pursue a similar policy in relation to pharmacies in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Repolonization is a concern for the Polish citizen, and starting the process of restoring pharmacy to pharmacists is not only acting in defence of Polish pharmacists, it is also taking care of the Polish patient. Let's remember that we're all or we're gonna be people in need of help at the pharmacy. And remember, the pharmacy isn't a store, it's a health care facility. [[Applause]] And such a question: How is it that under Polish law a lawyer can own a pharmacy and a pharmacist cannot own a law firm? [[How can he not?]] And it seems obvious. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u153	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[That's what consciousness is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Numerous pharmacist organisations, among others The Polish Association of Pharmacyists, the 2030 perspective, calls on ladies and gentlemen of Members to reject the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law. Pharmacies point out that in the so-called. Network pharmacy pharmacists often find much better working conditions than in so-called. individual pharmacies. It is about pay conditions as well as the possibility of professional development as well as the stability of employment. If the aim of the project is to reduce market pathologies such as exports of medicines, then why do the rules not apply to pharmacies in rural areas at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u155	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pharmacy market with significant pressure from foreign networks and lobbying pharmaceutical companies are important problems for the patient. They decide on the availability of drugs. Both patients and pharmacists, the owners of small pharmacies, came to my parliamentary office on this bill. Small pharmacies are often destroyed by them always fair competition of the network. Please explain whether this bill will protect small Polish drugstores from liquidation. I would like to add that the sale of medicines is not an ordinary trade in everyday goods. It is important to be responsible for a qualified pharmacist who is aware of the consequences of giving the patient the wrong medicine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u157	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u158	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask you why you ignored the opinion of BAS and the Ministry of Development, Minister - if you wouldn't mind saying so. These were very critical opinions which were in contradiction with the draft law. I regret that Mr Latos is not here, because I would also like to ask him what the content of the amendments is and whether, by chance, one of these amendments brings back this objection that the pharmacy can only be for the pharmacist. He's bringing it in, isn't he? Oh, then we see that we have a very strange lobbying here because once there's a bill, once there's a change, now it's back the other way. Ladies and gentlemen, consider this is not the way. I believe that this is not the law in Poland. Withdraw this bill, she's very bad, very controversial. And even your minister, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, through his officials, is passing this bill, the Office of Sejm Analysis... I'm asking you to withdraw this bill. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u159	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Will the proposed bill affect the reduction of pathology in the Polish pharmaceutical market? These pathologies pose a threat to the functioning of individual pharmacies and result in damage to Polish patients. This is, among other things. restricting access for certain wholesalers and individual pharmacies to medicinal products that save lives and health used in chronic diseases such as asthma, epilepsy, diabetes, etc., resulting in unequal access of patients to medicines. Network pharmacies receive virtually without quantitative restrictions, individual pharmacies must register in wholesalers on the queue list in order to get one or two packs of medicine. Another pathology is the sale of non-refundable medicinal products at retail prices, well below the purchase price, due to unclear links between pharmacies and representatives of certain pharmaceutical companies. Another one is sales abroad, so-called. deficit medicines saving lives and health [[♪ The bell ♪]] through specialised wholesalers and non-public health establishments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u161	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed bill aims at halting adverse trends in the ownership of the pharmacy market by the pharmacies and the elimination of individual pharmacies. If these trends persist, individual drugstores would most likely disappear from the market over a period of several years and this would be irreversible. The question is whether we want it; I don't. The draft law is of a regulatory nature. My question concerns the situation in other countries. Are there examples of solutions similar to those contained in the bill? Did the monopolization of the market by large networks in other countries not result in an increase in drug prices, an increase in their consumption by pushing as many often unnecessary medicines to customers and thus increasing the government's spending on medicines, reducing the availability of medicines, the fall of pharmacies in villages and small towns? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u163	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u164	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is systematically information in the media that the largest pharmacies by registering companies abroad or other optimization mechanisms avoid taxation. So my question to the applicant is: How much does CIT pay the largest pharmacies in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u165	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u166	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are a number of doubts in the opposition's opinions, including the fact that the proposed solutions are very restrictive. I would therefore like to ask whether similar solutions exist in other European countries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u167	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u168	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead, ladies and gentlemen, deregulate according to the global trend, you are pushing your knees with a controversial project that has clearly been prepared by the pharmaceutical lobby. Negative opinions, ladies and gentlemen, which you have not taken into account at all, come out of your political camp, from the Minister of Development, Deputy Prime Minister Gowin - not to mention patient organisations that say that this is a critical project that will endanger the health and safety of the inhabitants. Just questions, ladies and gentlemen. Why are there just questions? Because there's no impact assessment. No one has looked at this project in substance and substance. Up to $3,000. residents and only within a radius of 1 km - why this data? What we are interested in, ladies and gentlemen, are the patterns from other countries, since there has been research, analysis, with a view to urbanisation, population density, systematics of a particular area. And here you took from the sky, out of a hat of $3,000. residents and radius of 1 km. On the basis of what studies, on the basis of which analyses have you introduced these records? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u169	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Michał Cieślak, a club called Law and Justice. There's no envoy? There isn't. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the analysis and in the explanatory memorandum, I did not read it and its content did not give rise to any doubts as to the differences between the content contained in the explanatory memorandum and the consequences that should be taken into account and the analysis that could occur within a certain period of time. This news may be known to applicants, but as a Member, it is difficult for me to find out. Minister, I have this question: Is this a restriction of competition? Is this supposed to be creating new development conditions, let's assume, also those that the Deputy Prime Minister is transmitting? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about some discrepancies. Namely, network pharmacies have tools and opportunities to reward their employees in a manner that is appropriate to their positions. On the other hand, in the opinion I received, I was also informed that it is not similar in the case of individual pharmacys, that there is a series of pathology of this type, that employees are forced to self-employed, and thus, the owner of such pharmacy reduces the costs of operating. And there are other, let's say, lines. And my question: Will this regulation help Polish pharmacies, most often run by individuals or families? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant. Have you even discussed this bill at your club? And if not, then I have a big appeal - get out of it yet, put it down and let your fellow Members know what this bill is all about, because when I hear your questions, I am convinced that a lot of people really don't know what it is about. If there is such a conclusion here that at last a pharmacist in Poland will be able to run a pharmacy as well as a lawyer, then you do not know what you are talking about. Today's regulations, which include legal persons, natural persons and persons who are not legal persons, companies governed by commercial law, allow everyone to run a pharmacy under certain conditions - pharmacists always, and those who are not, must hire a person with rights. And there is no situation here that you have said, in turn, that medicines are issued by an unauthorised person and this is a great risk to the patient. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been misled. Really, read it because it's completely different. And if it turns out that the fact is the amendment that is here [[♪ The bell ♪]] between the lines...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u176	...heard the pharmacy's gonna come back to the pharmacy again, which means it's just about lobbying for...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u177	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u178	...one professional group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the impression that some of you are confusing the concept of recolonization with nationalisation, because you have probably dealt with such a process more often. On the other hand, it is not absolutely necessary to recolonise in this sector, because according to the data of the Republican Foundation, a foundation that is close to you, up to 96% entities operating on this market are Polish entities. Moreover, there is no excessive concentration on this market. With over 14,000. Pharmacy, 14,7,000, over 63% are independent drugstores, they're not network drugstores. And these networks are dominated by small entities that have 5 to 14 pharmacies. There's 316 of them. Ladies and gentlemen, a marginal problem can be solved by applying antitrust rules. There's no such thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Needs to apply extraordinary...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u181	...measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u182	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This revision of the PiS favours small companies, less productive, while in liberal countries pharmacies invest more, and yet in their so-called. Morawiecki's plan Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki emphasizes that we need investment in Polish companies very much today through development, growth. This will result in greater bargaining power, the ability to compete on the market, that these companies will be able to develop. And the state's monopolization is weakening this development, you're holding back this development, just blocking the investment of entrepreneurs in the pharmaceutical industry. My question: How the changes intended by the PiS are related to the so-called. Morawiecki's plan to increase investment in Polish companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u184	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u185	High Izbo! I am listening to this debate and I will tell you honestly, Minister, that you have no good hand, you do not inspire confidence. Whatever you touch, it's a long distance away smells like some strange lobby, something so vague. I read a little bit about you. I know that you're under such a big cloud, under the care of Mrs. Goss, and I know that you're considered untouchable in the Ministry of Health and in the PiS. But the times of the PiS will end - the PiS will not rule forever - and the time will come to settle it. Why today, at the expense of the poorest - patients - are you trying to preserve the market, to make the price of drugs... 'Cause the truth is, it's gonna be at the end. It's about the price of drugs and the possibility of access to a pharmacy for people will be limited. Not to mention that no young pharmacist graduate is gonna open any pharmacy. No pharmacy will be built anymore, because the market is saturated. It's unfair competition, it's using public office to do business. Whose? That's what we're gonna find out, and you're gonna be on our radar. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u186	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u187	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we find the paragraph in which we refer to the problem of the reversed drug distribution chain. We remember very well from previous years, how many problems this topic caused the previous government, how much money went into the wrong hands, how many drugs were exported abroad. It is not until July 2015 that the law has somehow regulated this problem, although it seems to me that it is not entirely. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister whether this law, this amendment, this project will strengthen the supervision of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection or of the Minister on this previously uncontrolled one, and now, I hope, already controlled export of drugs abroad on the basis of the reverse distribution chain. Is there any surveillance here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be better and more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u188	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The substantive arguments against this harmful amendment of the law were presented, so it is not worth repeating. In fact, I have an appeal - although I know it will be like throwing peas against a wall - to Minister Radziwiłłł, who rarely appears here. Well, I would like to call on Minister Radziwił and the other ministers to show a little more courage. If harmful projects are presented in this House, projects striking consumers, customers, then they are parliamentary projects. Of course, then discussions are avoided, consultations are avoided, impact assessments are avoided. Then it's said, the government says, it was a parliamentary project. Like Minister Szyszko said, it was a parliamentary project. Courage, Minister - please give this to the Minister - so that you may have A little more courage and they left with an open pinhole [[♪ The bell ♪]] with all your bad ideas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u190	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the history of this project. I would very much ask that the representative of the applicants explain to us what is the story of this project: Who came with it? When did he get here? What happened to him? Who made the decisions? Who wrote the bill? Who brought the assumptions? Where did all this come from? It is not by chance that a majority of Members are asking questions about the lobbyist aspects of this project. It's very clear. I would therefore very much ask that the applicant's representative present such a history of the project. If the Member is not able to do so now, in writing. Second thing. Did you analyze the financial consequences for Poles who purchase drugs in pharmacies? As long as they grow, for example. in the perspective of 2 years, the prices of medicines after the introduction of the solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which PiS club here is so strongly promoting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u192	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I now request the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we need to answer the question of what kind of pharmacy we want in Poland, i.e. whether the pharmacy is supposed to be a health care facility or whether it should be an ordinary store. The next question is whether a pharmacist in Poland is to provide pharmaceutical care, to be a qualified specialist who helps patients, or to be simply a person who spends drugs, who collects money, or a shopkeeper. The third thing, the third dimension that needs to be considered, is what it is and what should ultimately be the share of online pharmacies and individual pharmacies in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, evolution has been clear in recent years. We were going in this direction: the pharmacist is being brought more and more into the role of a regular shopkeeper, and the pharmacy becomes more and more a regular shop. Just go to the first on the edge of the pharmacy and see what kind of product you can see, what patients who come there are encouraged to do, what are the active sales plans for the unrefundable product range. The pharmacy is becoming more and more like a drogeria or a grocery store - a petrol station in some respects - than a health care facility. Patients, Poles lose confidence in this type of pharmacy. I am convinced that most Poles, however, want pharmaceutical care. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a terrible mistake to think that the free market and its invisible hand will play when it comes to the economy of medicines. The drug isn't a roll, it's not meat, it's not a sock, it's not a car. We know that the demand for medicinal products, for products, also parapharmaceutical products, is shaped by external factors, especially advertising. We will deal with this ad in a major revision of the pharmaceutical law. We'll eliminate the incorrect content. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we must protect Poles from bad tendencies and bad evolution. In the wrong direction, this evolution was going. As I say, drugstores are becoming more and more like shops. If we don't change the law, that's where we're going. A pharmacist will be less and less like a healthcare provider, more and more like a shopkeeper, and networks, as they have dominated more and more in recent years, will be more dominant if we do not change this law. I agree here... This is absolutely the position of the Minister of Health, who fully supports the parliamentary project with all its original records. On the other hand, you are referring here to the position of BAS, which I think is at least controversial, and we do not agree with it. On the other hand, you are also raising the position of Minister of Development and Finance. I remind you that this position was presented in writing before the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers held its meeting. The Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers was held later. There was presented the position of Minister of Health, which I presented, and the position of Minister of Development and Finance, which was presented by Minister Emilewicz. I remind you of the final position of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. The Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers fully supports the parliamentary project in its original form, apart from the fact that not only pharmacists can own a pharmacy or own a pharmacy. I suggest we focus on that first thing. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it's really not. Here's the point of the case when it comes to the export of refunded drugs. I remind all of you that as regards competition in the field of medicines reimbursed, this competition takes place in the Ministry of Health in front of the Economic Commission, and rightly so. These provisions have also been introduced by the previous government, bringing the refund of medicines closer to the requirements of the European Union's Transparency Directive. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have in Poland prices of medicines refunded, i.e. those medicines that are most important for Poles, which are rigid prices in pharmacies. So this regulation must not affect the most important medicinal products for Poles, absolutely none. On the other hand, this bill, this project, of course, may have an impact on this assortment of unfunded. I remind you, it is in this unrefundable assortment that we are currently experiencing terrible pathology. Dumping prices shall be applied for a specified period of time. One pharmacy opens next to the other, lowers prices in this unrefundable assortment, patients also come to this pharmacy with prescription for refunded drugs, because they think it's cheaper there. When the traditional pharmacy, which has been there for many, many years, falls, at this point that pharmacy raises prices, because it is already a monopoly practically in this area. In addition, there are such pathologies that if for example. We're 100%. a substance in some preparation, let's say, a supplement of a diet, and it costs, let's assume, 20 zł, then someone puts on the market a preparation that contains half of this substance, let's call it, needed or active, but already it costs 40 zł. The other one, ladies and gentlemen, is cheating customers because he has money for advertising. Of course, there's a decrease in sales of the first one, and the other one's on the market. This is absolutely unfair to Polish patients. We will propose, in the proposal for a major revision of the Pharmaceutical Law, the creation of a positive list of turnover in the unrefunded assortment and possibly price control as it has been in Germany for many, many years. This is by no means incompatible with EU law. Now, ladies and gentlemen, another thing is that we, as far as the Minister of Health is concerned, need an umbrella bill. The proposal for a major revision of pharmaceutical law is a huge document. This document will probably be processed here for many months, perhaps six or nine months. Without an umbrella bill there will be many irregularities, there would be very many irregularities in this market. This bill should not be called a pharmacy for a pharmacist, but a new pharmacy for a pharmacist. It freezes this market to some extent, because it mainly, primarily and essentially, concerns newly created pharmacies. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, if such a project does not pass, I say that there will be a lot of problems with the treatment of changes in pharmaceutical law. Of course, one could think of a moratorium, just as it was done in Hungary. They just introduced a moratorium, and that's it, no new drugstores for so many months, that's it. But here, ladies and gentlemen, these regulations are, in my opinion, much milder. However, they allow us to open new pharmacies, ba, these geographical and demographic criteria is a very good solution that will allow us to disperse the network. There were arguments here that you think of pharmacies as regular stores. Indeed, grocery stores, liquor stores, panty stores are created where there are large currents. Who? People who are usually healthy. The point here is that the pharmacy should spread closer to the sick people. These sick people often do not travel, are often obsessively ill or can reach such a distance, not another distance. As far as the criterion is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is based on the expertise of the UOKiK itself, how much can the client go from one place to another. On the other hand, opening a pharmacy door to a door certainly does not serve any competition, especially since the refund range has rigid prices. Mr Nitras obviously used some ad personam arguments here, which I will ignore because I am not an MEP, but I would like to remind you once again that the prices of medicines, the most important medicines for Poles have been rigid prices in pharmacy for many years, and very rightly so. However, here was another argument that there are lobbyist aspects in this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the lobbyist aspects are particularly reflected in the arguments raised by Members of one of the formations here. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the perspective of 2030... This is just a few people who are actually very closely connected to one network, and you know it very well. Same as the other arguments. It's very good that those calls went to CBA. I hope that the CBA will discover certain relationships that probably take place here, for the opponents of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you again. You are talking about benefits for the Polish economy, so it is a very right question, how many networks pay taxes in Poland. Which companies generate the largest share of GDP in Poland? Ladies and gentlemen, from what we have - if any of you want an expert opinion, we have it from the Ministry of Finance - it appears that some networks do not pay taxes at all in Poland, while individual pharmacys do not pay tax at all. Each of them hires people honestly, pays taxes. They are partners of the Polish economy. Now: how do the restrictions fit in here or this law in the strategy of responsible development? Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that some economists, including those who write in the press, do not understand one thing - that what is on the market for unregulated rolls, meat or socks, is not necessarily good for the pharmaceutical market, which often behaves in a completely different way. The drug is not meat. Or a piece of cake. And this market was regulated, regulated and regulated. If this market is not regulated, there will be very many misfortunes, and if it dominates... of course we don't want the pharmaceutical corporation to dominate this market, but we also don't want the networks to dominate this market. So far, evolution has been moving towards domination, towards the network, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this bill will freeze the status quo and then we will debate a major revision of the pharmaceutical law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda will now take the floor as the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I wouldn't want to... Waldemar Buda. I would not like to repeat the principles of the bill, because we discussed them at first reading and during the work in committee, but I would like to refer to this current stage, namely the report of the deregulation committee and its content. The fact is that during the work in committee there was a change in the draft with respect to its original version, namely that the record of the pharmacist was removed as the only entity authorised to run pharmacies. It was a kind of compromise which, leaving the remaining possibilities, the remaining mechanisms of regulation resulting from this law, gave little but some possibilities to regulate, civilise this market. Unfortunately, the state has alleged here that we ignore opinions, such as the legal opinions that appear in this case, but it is exactly the opposite. It was issued that BAS issued its legal opinion, which was the result of which - opinion 357/17 of 23 March 2017. - that the act in the form of the report is incompatible with the Constitution and European law, i.e. it entails restrictions on economic activity which are not justified by the specific objective of the patient's well-being. Indeed, this is because if we remove the pharmaceutical provision, there is no justification to limit the running of the pharmacy to capital companies. If a natural person, e.g. A mechanic would be able to run a pharmacy, so why couldn't capital in the form of a capital company do it as well? It is therefore necessary to return to the original version of the project and this is what these amendments concern. Firstly, restoring the role of pharmacist as the only person authorised to run pharmacies. Secondly, maintaining the restriction on the exclusion of capital companies from the possibility of pharmacies. Thirdly, a few minor legislative changes that improve this project. There is another amendment that responds to your demands. That is to say, you have pointed out many examples that there may be a situation in which termination of rental contracts or the need to change the location of the pharmacy may result in a new location, even very close to it, a permit being impossible due to geographical and demographic conditions. We respond to this and propose an amendment which gives the Minister of Health the power to authorise, on an individual basis, the establishment of a pharmacy in a place where this pharmacy is necessary, although demographic and geographical conditions are not met. Such consent will be subject to specific criteria, in particular the positive opinion of the mayor, mayor and president of the city, who must ask for this and suggest that in his local community, such a pharmacy is needed in his locality. In addition, a positive opinion of the Regional Pharmaceutical Inspector will be needed. Only these two positive opinions will allow the Minister of Health to consider such a proposal. You say that we ignore the views of various actors, such as the opinion of the Minister of Development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat what the Minister has already pointed out. The opinion of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers is a binding opinion for us. There is full acceptance of the project with one remark concerning the pharmacist. So you cannot say that there is some government criticism of this project. There was one element questioned and we in the original version took this into account, but unfortunately, in connection with this opinion of BAS, we must return to the pharmacist and his role in running pharmacies. I don't think Mr Kulesza is here, but I'll tell him later. Because if he was addressing the CBA and he's the first lobbying investigator on this case, in terms of searching for the sources of this bill and the legislative process, then I'd like to include this photo. I'll give it to him. This is a photo from the deregulation committee. I will ask the servants about this and who I agreed with, who wrote them to him, because the fact that he doesn't know about the bill is because of what he said today, what they're about to talk about. On the other hand, this photograph shows who he agrees with and from where he received these amendments. Indeed, the servants must explain this. I'm all for it. On the other hand, the fact that Mr Jakub Kulesza is a certain instrument, a mechanism of a network of foreign capital, but also of Polish capital, at least testify to his statements in today's debate, which indicate that pharmacies should lead all legal personality. This is a phrase that indicates that this man simply has no idea what he is saying, that he is actually reading, and that without understanding, the things that have been given to him. Ladies and gentlemen! In many countries... If you count the number of regulated populations in Europe, it turns out that 70% the European population is regulated by the pharmaceutical market. So this freedom is thirty-several percent, 68% is covered by similar Polish regulation of pharmaceutical law. Therefore, do not hit the alarm, do not indicate that this is some special regulation, which is some deviation from European standards. It's the opposite. She is moving towards a dominant standard in Europe, which orders, first, to regulate this market, and secondly, to protect it for the Polish entrepreneur. So what, ladies and gentlemen, that today even in most networks are in Polish hands? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are on the eve of the moment when these drugstores will cease to be Polish. It means that the networks, foreign capital, are preparing to take over. Let us be wise against harm and defend this market. If we give it back, there'll be no going back to that. We will look for a bank tax, we will look for a retail tax, we will look for solutions, but how to participate in the profit of these entities, but we will not restore it, we will not hand it over to Poland. Today we have this possibility because it is still in Polish hands, but it is subjected to strong capital pressure and acquisition. This is not some particular information - it comes from foreign studies - that invasion and capitalization is predicted by large foreign entities. The history of this program. Where did he even come from, and where did this idea come from in Law and Justice? Ladies and gentlemen, if you would pay attention to what is enshrined in the 2014 Law and Justice Programme. I would like to quote the programme: At the same time, in pharmacies we observe the process of eliminating small pharmacies and expansion related to wholesalers of large networks, at least some of which have their political patrons. Don't be surprised and don't explain the ignorance to any mystery. From the beginning we announced, it was already in the 2014 project that we would protect Polish capital, we would protect small Polish pharmacy. The State has failed to pay attention to this and is surprised that today we are fulfilling all our electoral obligations included in the programme. I know that this is a completely unusual circumstance for you. We can say in the campaign that taxes will be reduced and then drastically increased, such as VAT, while we stick to the programme and the commitments that we have made to the voters and that we have been voted for. [[Why didn't you lower your VAT?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, please support the project. I would also like to ask that the amendments tabled be given a positive opinion and, as a last resort, the entire project was adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u196	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Michał Cieślak, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today's discussion confirmed my conviction that the committee's original decision was correct. This is borne out by the number of amendments tabled by the Members' Clubs, which are actually completely excluded, which shows that the work of the committee should start over. So this is confirmed by the fact that the Commission's first decision to redirect the project to the Minister of Health and to take the form of a moratorium by the Ministry of Health proved to be the best of them. Today's club amendments lead to a situation where we are talking about an amendment tabled by the Law and Justice Club, in which the project is actually back to its original version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u198	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the centenary of Fatima Apparitions (Prints No. 1372 and 1419). I would like to ask Anna Sobecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the work on the parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the centenary of Fatima apparitions. During the work of the committee saying these words, she presented the importance and significance of the apparitions in Fatima and the up-to-date message. On 10 March this year. Draft Print Act No 1372 entered the Sejm and was then addressed to the first reading in the Committee on Culture and Media, where it was discussed in detail on 23 March this year. The Commission adopted the resolution by 10 votes against, 7 against and 1 abstention. In 2017, the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions began on 13 May 1917. On that day, Our Lady of Fatima appeared for the first time, giving her message to the world and the Church through three children: Jacinta, Francis and Lucia. The apparitions were six, during which three mysteries of Fatima were communicated, in which Our Lady foretold the greatest events of the 20th century. It goes on, among other things. about the events in Russia, the outbreak of World War II, persecution of the Catholic Church, the fall of the communist system and the assassination of the Holy Father John Paul II. When it comes to our latest history, one must be aware that the assassination of John Paul's life II, organized by the atheistic forces fighting God and the Catholic Church, took place on 13 May 1981, on the anniversary of the first apparition of Our Lady in Fatima. The wonderful salvation of the Holy Father is yet another confirmation of the truthfulness and up-to-dateness of the Fatima message. With regard to the apparitions of Fatima St. John Paul II explained that the modern world is on the brink of time, and the message of Fatima can show us the way to a safe future. He also reminded us that the dramatic moment that mankind is experiencing today should prompt us to turn with greater confidence to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, so that she may ask with us and for us the saving power of God's grace. John Paul II emphasized that the message of Fatima is closely related to the destiny of the Church and humanity and must be taken from generation to generation, in line with the ever-new signs of time. It is necessary to return to him constantly," he said. It needs to be re-started. These statements of the Holy Father about the message of Fatima and its current meaning confirm the importance of commemorating the 100th anniversary of the apparitions of Fatima. The current crisis of faith in Europe is the moral decline expressed in disrespect for life, mass murder of unborn children, euthanasia, contraception, the plague of divorce, drug addiction, etc. Rejecting the Christian system of values always leads to the deadly totalitarianism of power, and ultimately to self-destruct. That is why it is so important to observe the Christian system of values mentioned in the Radio and Television Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 21, which states that public radio and television tasks include, in particular, respect for the Christian system of values, as a basis for adopting universal principles of ethics. Celebration of the 100th anniversary of Fatima Apparitions This is not only a historical memory, but above all an opportunity to proclaim the call of Our Lady in Fatima, whose message continues to have a beneficial effect on the present and future of the Church's path and the history of humanity. The 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions in 2017 is a great celebration radiating around the world. In view of the importance and importance of the message of 1917, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of Fatima apparitions, wishes to celebrate in 2017 the 100th anniversary of Fatima apparitions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u200	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mrs Barbara Bubula's Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice about the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Fatima apparitions. As a Member from Krakow-Nowa Huta, I remember especially how the strong foundation for the freedom and solidarity identity of Poles was the multi-thousandth, long-term, systematic participation of many Poles in Fatima services every month of every 13 May, June, July, August, September and October during the period of the Polish People's Republic. right in my parish of Our Lady of God, the Queen of Poland in the New Hutch Bieńczyce. Under the naked sky, for even after the Ark of the Lord was built in 1977 tens of thousands of people did not fit under this roof, prayer and singing in the procession of atonement for saving their homeland and the world. The personal involvement of the Archbishop of Kraków Cardinals also contributed enormously. Karol Wojtyla, whose devotion to Mary in Fatima was confirmed by the miraculous rescue of the assassination on 13 May 1981, on the exact anniversary of the Portuguese apparition. It was during one of Fatima services on the night of the martial law, 13 October 1982, several dozen meters from our church that my schoolmate from the primary school, then 19-year-old Bogdan Italian, was shot by a security officer. Not only in Nowa Huta, but also in many other parts of our country: Trzebini, Zakopane, Rzeszów - I think that many of your fellow Members could mention many other names of the village - the knowledge of Mary's message given to the three pastors in 1917 in Da Iria Valley in Portugal shaped the sense of responsibility of ordinary people for the fate of the world in the face of tragic, ungodly totalitarian ideologies: Nazi Nazism and Soviet communism, as well as in the face of - it is also important to recall - threats of nuclear global conflict in the Cold War period. The fact that prayer, repentance and conversion of specific people and nations can save the earth from destruction was a sign of special hope. The fact that we can and should pray for each other, including those who are our enemies, is a special message of Fatima. Thanks to these revelations, the Rosary prayer received an additional request from a billion - year - old community of praying Catholics for those who especially need God's mercy. Fatima Revelations are a light illuminating the darkness of the tragic 20th century. For these very reasons, to bear witness to the belief that man is not living on bread alone and that the reference of history to God's [[♪ The bell ♪]] providence is an important component of our national identity and the foundation of values on which...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u203	...the Polish state is built, the Law and Justice Club supports the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u204	Mr Wojciech Król will now speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u205	At the same time, we provide a minor correction in the text of the resolution to the hands of the Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u206	...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Piety is important, but reason can't replace it. I dedicate these words to Fr. Józef Tischner to parliamentarians who today in the Polish Parliament want to celebrate the Fatima apparitions. Ladies and gentlemen, do not replace your senses with bigotry. The resolution we are discussing today is of course irrelevant to the unbelievers, but believers may be offended, not sanctioned by resolutions. Our Lady was not entangled in the geopolitical situation of Poland, as we can read in the resolution. [[Applause]] Revelations, even those recognized by the Church, are not a dogma to believers. Let us not create political dogma by resolutions in the Polish parliament, in addition soaked in deviance. A fragment of St. James: What good is it, my brothers, if someone claims to believe and does not do his works? Can faith itself save him? Just as a body without a spirit is dead, so is a dead faith without works. More important than resolutions are concrete actions. The voters account for our work, just our deeds. My speech is not part of the retreat of the Lent, but another quote from the Scriptures: Whatever you have done to one of my least brethren, you have done to me. Today, three children from Fatima: Jacinta, Łucja and Francis, return to us as children from Aleppo, whom the Polish government did not accept, to whom they did not help, [[Applause]] Because you would rather write a resolution than break stereotypes than break internal dislikes, internal fears. We need to get involved, ladies and gentlemen. St. John Paul II of this place, when speaking to the National Assembly, did not want, did not demand the sanctioning of the resolutions of the prayer of the Rosary, revelations, or that his words concerning the restoration of the face of this land should be included in the resolution. Perhaps because he agreed with the words of his friend Fr. Joseph Tischner, that godly devotion is important, but reason cannot be replaced. We can, of course, sanction everything by resolutions, by laws. Today, of course, we are free to do this to law and justice, but, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot replace it by any resolution. Last but not least, the Members of the Law and Justice will not believe this, but you are not the only believers. [[Voice from the room: I don't believe it.]] You've got to believe it, though you'll probably doubt it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Platform [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizen's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u209	...will not take part in this vote out of respect for believers and unbelievers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u210	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, will now speak. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] He's lost. [[Mr Mieszkowski is here.]] Mr President, are you speaking?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u211	Yes, of course. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very serious case against appearances. In various debates, I hear a ton of irony. This is one of the elements of building the ideology of the PiS state in addition to the school program, except what is done in public media. This is another act of entering those territories where the PiS should not be. No country. On April 2, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the adoption. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which Poland is a neutral worldview country. This record already at the stage of the drafting of the basic law met with strong opposition of church hierarchs with Archbishop Józef Michalik, Bishop Kazimierz Ryczan and Archbishop Kazimierz Majdanski, who wanted to have a real impact on state policy. Today, thanks to the PiS Members, this scenario is being implemented. The resolution proposed by the PiS is a violation of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament He says: Public authorities in the Republic of Poland maintain impartiality in matters of religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs, ensuring freedom to express them in public life. The resolution also infringes Article. 1 Concordat:.Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Holy See confirm that the State and the Catholic Church are independent and autonomous in their field and undertake to fully respect this principle in their mutual relations and cooperation for human development and the common good. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland is not the right place to pass miracles considered by scientists as natural phenomena. Instead of proceding this document, let us bow to the tragic fate of refugees, victims of war in Syria, entire populations starving to death, about which Martin Caparrós in Starvation was mostly talking about. I have no objection to Catholics worshipping unusual meteorological events in churches and assigning them religious meaning. After all, Christian culture is one of the essential elements of European identity, including mine, right next to the tradition of ancient or enlightened rationalism. However, we cannot give consent to the use of symbolic violence against the idea of a worldly neutral state and subject Poles to the paradigm of one religion. At this point I would like to ask whether Members, or actually the applicant, tried to understand for a moment the feelings of agnostics, atheists and other religions. Ryszard Kapusciński wrote: At the turn of the 6th and 5th centuries before Christ - what an extraordinary time - Confucius lives in China, Buddha lives in India, Socrates lives in Greece. These three geniuses are almost peers, but they separate their vast spaces and of course they know nothing about each other. And it's a miracle to me. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u212	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u213	... The modern demands that the resolution be rejected...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u214	...from the Polish People's Party. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u215	...at second reading, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions, prints no. 1372 and 1419. Ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the presentation of the club's position on the project submitted by the PiS concerning the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions. First of all, I would like to point out that I absolutely do not question the intentions of those for whom this is important. I belong to them myself. But the intentions of the PiS Members, as far as I am concerned, are incomprehensible and perverse. It is not the first time that PiS uses the Church and religion for its political purposes. This is the impression you can get from reading into the transcripts of earlier discussions in Parliament about this project. PiS Members have shown that they are a great personification of the old proverb: The devil is dressed in an ornat and he calls the Mass with his tail. Ladies and gentlemen, such a lying party, which hundreds of Poles cheated in the last election campaign, is with a candle to look for. [[Krystian, we're talking about revelations.]] Mr. Peter, wait a minute. And today you have the audacity to rely on the apparitions of Fatima. Shame. [[For what?]] Shame, dear applicants. Remember, as Poland is not a PiS, so the Church is not a PiS-owski, it is a Catholic one. For trying to get him into politics... [[Little man.]] ...many of you may be burning in hell. [[Say hi to your relatives.]] On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I clearly stress that we have nothing against commemorating the anniversary of the Fatima apparitions. Each of the Members of the Polish People's Party will vote individually in favour of this resolution, but the way in which PiS has long used religion for its political purposes, we will criticize with all determination. Shame on you, Members and Members of the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Little man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u217	Mr Stefan Niesiołowski from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u219	I'm sorry, the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u220	First of all, such a small request: If the marshal could refrain from my speaking from his perceptive and very witty comments, I would be deeply grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u221	I'll do my best, sir. [[Before, too!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u222	And I am looking at the room, whether there is your intellectual giant Mr Kalet, because then I would have to speak very slowly, but since he is not, I will allow myself... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, there you are. Then I must speak freely so that you understand. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This devout, absurd resolution is the result of an absurd situation, such that we have in parliament, in the PiS club at the moment a group of Members associated with the Toruń oligarch who are doing it with a variety of favours and gifts, and in return they receive political support. This is an immoral and politically corrupt situation and such an example of this abnormal situation is this devout resolution. It is not the role of the Sejm to adopt such resolutions. You are mistaken for catechetical rooms or chapels with parliament. We're the lawmakers. How much hypocrisy it takes, how much contempt for the victims of communism to talk about the fact that these victims come here to... This is where Mrs. Bubula referred to these victims. Who gave you the right? Why should you speak for these people? What right do you have? Who authorized you? Who authorized the PiS to impersonate Our Lady, e.g. that Our Lady states that almighty God is needed, who created us for himself and wishes to share with us the fullness of happiness? But with some, perhaps even more, he wants to share full happiness in the form of supervisory boards, television advertising, and many material benefits. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Niesiołowski, oh, Niesiołowski.]] People did not fight communism so that today, for doing such cheap, tacky, disgusting, devout propaganda, they would receive material benefits, because that's what it comes down to. How do we know, for example, on what basis is this claim that the current geopolitical situation of Poland is connected with the Fatima message? What does that mean? I understand that the support for the PiS stems from the apparition of Our Lady. Maybe Mr. Kaczyński had some extra revelations, maybe he still has apparitions - then reveal it. This claim that the current political situation is somehow linked to what happened in 1917 in Fatima, Portugal, is another example of the fact that this law is in fact a PiS-owska propaganda act... a resolution that has no substantive value, pure theology preceded by angelic revelations, these are Fatima revelations. What do you mean, angelic revelations? Maybe Mrs. Sobecka, a prominent parliamentary theologian, could explain to us what kind of relationship we have in the first place. We're not here for this. You should be in a different place, not here, with this kind of resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Around the Union of European Democrats...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u223	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u224	...supports the Modern position in this regard, will be in favour of rejecting this resolution in the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u225	You're welcome. I will refrain, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Neglecting the meaning of the Fatima resolution in the Sejm is really denying necessity, the need to refer to a transcendent in public life. Europe, especially Western Europe, liberal Europe, left-wing Europe, has been dying for this disease - this disease of the soul, but also of the mind. Even non-believers, but wise, those who understand the role of religion, those who understand that public - also in public institutions, yes - confessing God, referring to religious values is something that connects the nation, which gives it a moral backbone. Even non-believers, but in the name of the state, in the name of national interest, will support such acts, that is why. It is precisely because this moral backbone, the religious backbone, is needed by every nation, every society. The absence of such resolutions and such acts in the Polish public space is not a testimony, it would not be a testimony of any pluralism, it would be a testimony of really aggressive laicism, which we are unfortunately already dealing with in many countries of Western Europe. And all the more reason to take such an act. Let us not have any illusions, the liberal-left experiment, the atheistic laity experiment, which has been going on in Western Europe for decades, is to end. The distribution of attacks on religious values in the public life that Europe is experiencing ends either by Western European nations or by Muslims. Let us have no doubt that the ground for the Islamicization of Europe, which follows, first did dechristianization, because ideal life, religious life hates vacuum, hates voidness. Let us be aware that it is not even a matter of individual beliefs to support religious acts in public space. It is simply the foundation of the state's right, the foundation of the national interest of every country and every politician who thinks of the nation in terms of not years, but decades and centuries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u227	Thank you very much. Nine ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for Mrs Sobecka to clarify the particular importance of Fatima's message in the context of the current geopolitical situation of Poland. And question two. In the explanatory memorandum you wrote to the applicant that the celebration by the Polish Sejm of the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions will be an eloquent act giving an international rank to this event. And the question is: Have the parliaments of other countries in the world, European countries, including the Portuguese Parliament, taken or intend to adopt such resolutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u229	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the committee's work report, the rapporteur made a religious statement, at best a declaration of faith. Do you not think that similar resolutions should rather be individual parliamentary statements of the Members concerned at the point: the parliamentary statements and not the resolutions of the secular Sejm? I have great respect for the devout and deeply believers, but as the already quoted philosopher of the dead said. Fr. Józef Tischner: Piety is very important, but reason will not replace it. I would add what William Shakespeare once said: "Oh, like cruel godless devotion. In deeds, show your faith, not in the resolutions of the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u231	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Pope Francis clearly emphasizes the importance of separating the state from the Church, but we had already entrusted the state company Energa to Our Lady, and before that there were already prayers for rain in the Sejm. [[Is that bad?]] I quote the passage of the justification, the Fatima resolution: by passing on the three-part mystery and the spectacular miracle of the sun, Our Lady reminded the Gospel truth that people really need only Almighty God to be happy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Catholic and I will never deny it, but do we, Poles, need such a resolution for happiness? What's she supposed to serve? Or will he support our international policy? [[So are you Catholic or not?]] We are confusing, ladies and gentlemen, the Seym with the Episcopate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u234	High Izbo! The tradition, the new writing tradition, is that the Seym is being punished for quoting the Constitution. But I will remind you of the Polish constitution, the Polish constitution, at every opportunity. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2: Public authorities in the Republic of Poland remain impartial in matters of religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs, ensuring their freedom to express them in public life. What is your method for state? You write in the resolution: Also due to the current geopolitical situation of Poland, the Fatima message takes on special importance for our homeland. What's your method for the country? Give Macierewicz defense, give to Waszczykowski foreign affairs, give to the skier the office of President of the State, give to the free person the function of Prime Minister and entrust Poland to Our Lady? Maybe we need to fill these positions with people who are able to take care of the interests of Poland, and to move prayers to Our Lady to the church? This is the Sejm, not the church.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u235	The question is asked by Maciej Masłowski... [[And that's the question?]] ...Kukiz Club15. [[And here are the Catholics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have long wondered whether to go out and ask whether any other question, because in the end, when discussing a resolution, we should be based on some facts, and even if we do not know whether we have a reliable content so-called. The third secret of Fatima. And I think politics, when it comes together with religion, it's not always good, it's probably losing religion. Therefore - we have heard the position of one side and the other - I can only appeal for restraint in combining these two subjects and I will not ask this question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u237	Thank you. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u238	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the impression that you are convincing the Sejm to deal with religious matters that he should not be dealing with. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that public authorities remain impartial about religious beliefs. After all, our voters are people of different religions, atheists, so I do not think that the statements which are included in this project convince all Poles, as you write, among others, that people need only almighty God for happiness. I do not think that all Poles agree with this statement. Therefore, it is important to make it clear that even the most sincere prayer will not replace sound and rational management of the state. And that's what's important today. Today I ask you: are these changes in the constitution that President Jarosław Kaczyński was talking about breaking up with the tradition of impartiality of public authorities and [[♪ The bell ♪]] making Poland a religious state? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u239	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Benjamin Franklin used to say that common sense is something that everyone needs, that hardly anyone has, and nobody knows that it's missing. And it seems that there has just been a lack of such reflection and common sense for the authors of this resolution. I therefore request and at the same time urge you not to compromise the High House so that the PiS does not compromise Parliament. I appeal to you to support the motion to reject this resolution at second reading, and it is even better for you to withdraw this resolution yourself. That would be a reasonable step, a rational step, consistent with common sense. I appeal to you to listen to the voice of our Pope Francis, who said that the states must be secular, because these creeds do not end well and are contrary to history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u241	The question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions is a good initiative. Although Members of the opposition are trying to ridicule her, depreciate her, and even by an imaginary analogy to Aleppo politicize her, this does not change the fact that these revelations had a very large and important impact on the history of the world. The celebration of this anniversary only emphasizes this fact. It is a pity that the opposing Members cannot understand this. I don't know how this resolution can offend atheists or people of other faith if they don't believe it, so it's indifferent to them. And Mr Niesiołowski's speech cannot be commented on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u243	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll try. There is no Member who has questioned the intellectual resources of the High House, but even to hear such a statement from the master's mouth on the subject of lack of intellectualness - invaluable. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken of piety, that piety is important, but reason cannot be replaced. Sometimes, not sometimes, but by the way, if I hear your argument, I say you have neither. As for refugees, remember the refugees, but also remember the victims of the bombings that are now passing through Europe. Remember these victims. I would not like to speak here about Mr PSL's speech, because it was small and despicable. I ask you to always, in any situation, be able to quote and take to heart these quotations that you are referring to today: Scripture, Pope Francis, St. John Paul II, may you always have their words and those words in your heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u245	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Sobecka, will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u246	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you all, of course, for your comments. I would like to address a few of you. Namely, I believe that the absolute ignorance of the matter and the law is to say that the resolution is incompatible with the constitution and the concordat. The Constitutional Tribunal found that resolutions cannot be controlled because they are not a source of Polish law. Fatima revelations are a fact recognized by the Church, a historical fact. However, they do not change the doctrine of the Church, they serve to deepen reflection on the content of the apparitions. [[In the church.]] In Poland, every citizen enjoys freedom, including freedom of religion, including Members. When it comes to commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions, we do not do so for propaganda purposes or to highlight our worldview or faith. We do this because it is not every day that the 100th anniversary of Fatima apparitions has a beneficial effect on the present and future of human history. A State from the Civic Platform, from Modern, which some of the PSL, of course, have the right to a separate opinion. Each of you is free to go. Incidentally, I would just like to remind you from the Platform that the term "devotion" has a positive meaning. It was people who made it some kind of negative action. I can only comment on Mr Niesiołowski's statement in this way: I beg your pardon, Mr Niesiołowski, such insinuations that I draw some benefit from this. Incidentally, it doesn't add up, because those words in a Member, a former member of the UN, are even indecent. [[Applause]] One of the Members of the Modern Party was very concerned about the timing of the geopolitical situation of Poland, which was included in the resolution. I must tell you all that the amendment tabled by my colleague says that these words in the geopolitical situation of Poland are replaced by words that also have an important dimension for our homeland. And I will now give you a resolution: Resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of Fatima apparitions on their 100th anniversary. In 2017, the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions. In her message, Our Lady revealed the greatest events of the 20th century, and its message is still valid. In an extremely dramatic way, by passing on the three-part mystery and the spectacular miracle of the sun, Our Lady reminded us of the Gospel truth - and here I would like to point out that this was said by Our Lady and not by Anna Sobeck - that people really need only almighty God, who created us for himself and wants to share with us the fullness of happiness. Rarely have religious events played such an important role in the history of the Church and the world as Fatima revelations. Also because of the current situation, they also have an important dimension for our homeland. The Fatima message is of special importance. Because of the importance and importance of the message of 1917, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of its special importance, wishes to celebrate the Fatima apparitions on their 100th anniversary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u247	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u248	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of the importance of this resolution, I thank the Sejm for commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions. All over Poland there will be celebrations related to this anniversary. In my constituency in Ciechanów there is the parish of Our Lady of Fatima, where there is the first church in Poland. St. John Paul II, where the cult of Our Lady of Fatima is alive. On May 13th, I will attend diocesan celebrations. Is it true that the anniversary of the Fatima apparitions has an international dimension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u249	As an amendment and a motion for rejection were tabled to the draft resolution at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the statement of amendments has been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before I go to the next point, I would like to say hello to those present in the local government and to the schoolchildren from Piek and Lipowa in the district of Mrągowo. [[Applause]] Greetings. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons, signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016 (prints No 1348 and 1416). I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016 in print No. 1348. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent on 8 March 2017 a draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The reasons for binding the Republic of Poland to this agreement on the readmission of persons under ratification with the prior consent of the Act are the following conditions. Primo, the agreement concerns the matters referred to in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. matters governed by the law relating to the provision of officials of the Republic of Kazakhstan escorting a person of the same level of protection and support as the internal law guarantees to Polish officers. It's an art. Point 15 (6) of the Agreement. These issues are regulated, among others. By law of 6 June 1997, the Penal Code on the specific protection of a public officer in the performance of his duties, as well as the Border Guard Act, which imposes an obligation on governmental authorities, local government units and other state organisational units to cooperate with Border Guard authorities and to provide them with the necessary conditions for the performance of their statutory tasks, including assistance in the field of applicable law. Secundo, the application by officials of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the territory of the Republic of Poland of measures of direct coercion against a person subject to transfer or transit under escort constitutes a restriction on the freedom guaranteed by that person and in accordance with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may take place only in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the Act. In view of the above, following the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 2 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the binding of the Republic of Poland by this agreement should take place by ratification with the prior consent expressed in the Act, in accordance with Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of 14 April 2000 on international agreements. A joint meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs was held on 22 March. After a detailed presentation by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Jakub Skiba of the bill on ratification of the bilateral agreement and more than 20 years' history of work prior to the signing of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons of 22 August 2016, and after discussing its basic content, Members did not submit any comments or doubts. Nor did they take advantage of the possibility of asking questions. The representative of the Legislative Office has not submitted comments on the project. The chairman of the session, Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, called for a vote. 23 Members voted in favour of the committee's report requesting the adoption of Draft Print Act No. 1348, no one was against and no one abstained. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering the draft law, I ask that the High Sejm adopt without amendment the law in the wording proposed by the Government in print No 1348, as expressed by the committees in the report in print No 1416. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u251	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of my club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on readmission of persons signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016, prints no. 1348 and 1416. The aim of this project is to establish the legal basis for the admission into its territories of nationals of States Parties without authorisation in the territory of the other Party. It should be noted that the issue of cooperation with a party to the Republic of Kazakhstan in the context of readmission has not yet been regulated by international agreements binding both parties. It is also necessary to highlight the increase in the scale of activities of organised criminal groups involved in the illegal transport of migrants and, consequently, the need to regulate the technical elements associated with the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in both countries. Dear Marshal, The government bill is an important step towards achieving international action to prevent and combat illegal migration. The ratification of the agreement will strengthen cooperation and ensure effective cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Poland on the level of protection of the common legal and public order of both countries, but also increase the effectiveness of cooperation between the abovementioned countries, precisely in the field of preventing and combating illegal migration. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the contested bill, whereby it will be possible to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons. The scope of the matters covered by the contract is related to the matter covered by the provisions of the Act of 12 December 2013 on Foreigners, and its implementation will be carried out on the basis of the provisions of the Law of 12 October 1990 on Border Guard. The purpose of the agreement, as has already been said, is to lay down the legal grounds for admission to its territory of nationals of States Parties residing without authorisation in the territory of the other Party. Ladies and gentlemen! So as not to recall the matter which, by your Member, the applicant... I, too, will agree and confirm the absolute consistency in the work of the joint committees: there were no questions, there were no votes against. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I would like to allow myself upon request that we believe that the regulation of technical elements relating to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territories of both countries will facilitate cooperation between the two States in the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal migration. In view of the above, of course we support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016. This law has long been expected, because the procedure for preparing this law itself began in the 1990s, so that this duration is very, very long. It concerns very important things, since it finally regulates the whole issue of readmission of persons who reside in a given country in an illegal manner. It shall standardise all technical matters relating to the carriage of such persons, escorting, transport, all matters relating to documents and regulations which would be necessary and relevant for such readmission. This is a very short bill, actually consisting of two articles. She did not raise any doubts or objections in the committee, so that I will not repeat those things here either, which the rapporteur has put forward thoroughly and exhaustively. We are pleased to finally be able to bring this agreement by your President unanimously, and therefore the Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour, of course, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, also on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u258	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 realises that the draft law on ratification of the agreement between Poland and Kazakhstan on readmission of persons is important for both nations, especially when both countries worked on the final form of this agreement, Bagatela, 21 years old. It is not appropriate for us in this case to oppose the proposed changes. However, while remaining on the subject of Kazakhstan, I would like to draw attention to another problem, namely our repatriates living there and waiting for the possibility of settling in Poland. It's been over a year since I've had the interpellation on this matter. In response, I was assured that the new Repetition Act was in the process of being prepared and that it would soon change its records... [[She's being processed right now.]] These present cause almost total lack of involvement of local authorities in the process of repatriation. To sum up, I am counting on the entry into force of the new Repetition Act and the fact that its entry into force will not take that long. the process of preparing this agreement with Kazakhstan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u259	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u260	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the readmission of persons signed in Warsaw on 22 August 2016, following the presentation of the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs published in print No 1416. High Izbo! According to the statement of reasons presented, the project concerns the definition of principles of mutual cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Poland in carrying out tasks aimed at the expulsion of natural persons who do not meet the conditions or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry or residence in one of our countries. In addition, the provisions of the Agreement govern the rules of procedure for third-country nationals and non-nationals. Given the fact that the agreement concerns the issues set out in the Constitutional Articles, i.e. the Art. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) and Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, and in connection with the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 2 and 5 of the Constitution, and on the basis of the provisions of the Act on International Agreements, the binding of the Republic of Poland of this Agreement may take place only in the form of ratification, with the prior consent expressed in the Act. It should therefore be pointed out that the project under examination complies with this standard. Of course, there are a number of advantages associated with this agreement. These qualities have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I would like to point out that this regulation will have an impact on ensuring the smooth and safe transfer and reception of persons as defined in this agreement. This agreement provides appropriate tools for the smooth and secure reception, transfer and reception of these persons, and, as referred to in the explanatory memorandum, effective cooperation between both our countries within the framework of international action to prevent and combat illegal immigration. This agreement will also allow for much better cooperation in the field of protection of the broad legal and public order of both our countries and should result in increased efficiency in the eradication of these phenomena. Finally, I would like to point out that the conclusion of this agreement will not cause - this is important information - additional costs, because - as the Ministry points out - they are borne under the Foreigners Act and are independent of the conclusion of the agreement. And this important information for the Polish taxpayer who is tortured by the government of PiS I want to end my speech. Of course, the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u261	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party in this case, I would like to say, of course, that my club supports it and we are also in favour of moving directly to the third reading and therefore not amending it. At the same time, the history of this readmission agreement, more than 20 years old history shows the complexity of Polish-Kazakh relations, also with regard to internal relations and conditions in Kazakhstan itself. It is a multi-national country with great potential, great territory, lying both in Asia and in Europe, with great neighbours, including China, Russia, and at the same time in my opinion, as my experience shows, of not yet a well-established own concept of functioning in this region of the world. So surely maintaining good relations, keeping Kazakhstan closer to Europe and gradually making it independent of Russian influence is also the goal that our diplomacy should pursue. I hope that further steps in terms of repatriation and economic agreements can also be taken through such agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u263	Thank you very much. Three Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u264	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that as early as 19 July 1996. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed the Ministry of the Interior that the Kazakh party had asked the embassy of the Republic of Poland in Kazakhstan to negotiate a readmission agreement. Work on the preparation of the project was undertaken by the Polish party on 16 September 1998. Hence my questions. What was the reason why it took more than 20 years, 20 years after the agreement was proposed? What similar agreements are waiting in line for the approval by the Polish Parliament and with how many countries we have signed similar agreements? What countries should we sign with? If this is too extensive, please reply in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u265	Thank you. The question is asked by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of this agreement, Kazakh officers escorting on the territory of the Republic of Poland were granted the right to apply direct coercion measures in accordance with the circumstances in the event of a threat of absconding of persons subject to readmission or transit, self-inflicted harm, assassination of escorts or third parties or destruction of property. This right shall be granted in the absence of Polish officers entitled to assist Kazakh officers. Is it not appropriate that in all such cases the Kazakh officers should be accompanied by Polish officers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u267	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the number of cases that occurred in relations between Poland and Kazakhstan, the number of readmissions both one and the other way. Do you run these statistics? Do you have these numbers? I would very much like to ask you here to present the number of cases. On the other hand, if such cases were to occur, if the Minister were to be kind enough to determine the costs of such a one-off operation which is borne by the Polish party. Of course, if that's possible, I would very much ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u269	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jakub Skiba, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe. I will yet refer to the comment made by Mr Szramka on the Repetition Act. I would like to inform you that the Repetition Act is being processed at this point, so it is now up to the Sejm to deal with this subject as soon as possible. On the other hand, I will address the questions raised in a series of questions. Firstly, there were questions by Mr Obrick concerning the duration and procedure of this agreement. Of course, the period is very long. I can only assure you that the Government of Law and Justice, when it came to action, also asked himself why it took so long. I think that apart from obvious omissions probably on both sides there was also a different temperature of Polish-Kazakh relations during this period. But it's not a question that I can get more divorced about right now. I can assure you of one thing: we have led to this agreement as soon as possible. An additional summary was the visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev last year and it was during this visit that the agreement was signed. Currently, we have about 28 readmission agreements and, of course, several such agreements are waiting in line. I would like to present a detailed information on the countries and those agreements that are waiting in line, read: they are at the negotiation stage. Of course, these are often complicated and complex issues, mutual bilateral relations are at stake, but this is also happening during the migration crisis that we are currently dealing with, which on the one hand causes technical difficulties in concluding such agreements and, on the other hand, is of course a very serious motive for concluding them. As regards Mr Masłowski's question: the agreement provides that during these readmission procedures, in particular in Poland, direct coercion measures, which could be applied by the Kazakh party, may be applied by these officers only in accordance with Polish internal law and in a manner proportionate to the circumstances, which means supervision by Polish officers by such measures. There's no other way this is happening here. I would like to remind you that there is a full balance here, i.e. exactly the same rights apply to the Polish party when taking these actions in Kazakhstan, as well as to the Kazakh officers in Poland. With regard to Mr Suchon's question on statistics, statistics say that in 2015 we had eight such cases of readmission, and in 2016 on 34. We're talking about voluntary return, that is, there was no coercion here at all. I'm not familiar with the general costs at this point. I can only say that the basic element of these costs is, of course, an air ticket. In any case, it amounts to several thousand zlotys. As far as the aggregate amounts are concerned, I am prepared to provide this information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, five seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u272	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Maybe I stayed. Misunderstood. My question was: Is it not appropriate that in all such cases the Kazakh officers should be accompanied by Polish officers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u273	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister! First of all, I would like to supplement this care of Polish officers. As the Minister has already said, this agreement is precisely that Polish citizens and citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be treated the same way, including those who are readmitted, as well as those who may convoy them. Here we must also point out that this is done on a reciprocal basis, and here no party is privileged in this respect. Please note that there are only two established border crossing points in Poland and two border crossing points in Kazakhstan, where the border is crossed: Warsaw-Okęcie and Kraków-Balice in Poland, and Astana Airport and Almaty Airport. However, other border crossing points can also be agreed and it is necessary to inform the partner party at least 2 days in advance that such operations will take place. So we'll definitely be prepared for this. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would first of all like to thank all those who speak on behalf of parliamentary clubs. I would like to thank the High House for its compatibility in these matters. Kazakhstan is an important partner for us, and matters governed by this agreement are also extremely important. I think that this convergence of views is also an expression of our community, which is that we can be together in important, non-controversial matters, for which I warmly thank you all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u275	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives (print No 1425). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill on farmers' cooperatives, in which we refer to the best traditions of Polish cooperatives. Cooperatives in Poland during the interwar period were in many cases a model for the whole of Europe. Cooperatives in the countryside have developed since the partitions, because already then farmers believed that the survival of Polish agriculture during this difficult period requires joint action. In the interwar period, farmers' cooperatives operated in many areas of agricultural support, in many areas of joint institution building, which allowed the scale of joint action to generate additional benefits to make Polish agriculture stronger. In the post-war period, the idea of cooperatives was distorted because cooperatives were included in the social economy units, ceased to be private property of members of cooperatives and thus cooperatives became part of the economy of the then totalitarian state. After 1989, cooperatives functioned in a very diverse way, but most of the previous cooperatives either fell, or significantly reduced their activities, failing to withstand competition with the predatory market, which then appeared in Poland, without holding back competition with private capital, without holding back competition with foreign capital. Over the years, the Polish State has not been able and has not offered farmers the opportunity to organise themselves in cooperatives in such a way that, on the one hand, they can actually achieve added value, additional effects on the scale of their activities and, on the other hand, so that they have any, albeit minor, preferences. In the proposal presented by the government to the High House, we are returning to the best traditions, but we are also proposing solutions that allow for additional support, additional assistance, especially in the early years of the cooperative's operation. When we look at other countries of the European Union, where the degree of organisation of farmers is much higher than in Poland, we see how much has been lost in Poland, how much has to be done in Poland. In the Netherlands, Ireland, France, Germany, the degree of organisation of agricultural producers in farmers' cooperatives ranges from 70% to 98%. In Poland it is currently statistically 15% , but looking at the structure of Polish cooperatives, this organization is even smaller in the effects of cooperative activities. The milk market in Denmark is 94% share of the cooperative sector, the pig market in France is 94% , the cereal market in France is 74% , sugar market in France, Netherlands, Spain, Italy - approx. 40% , the fruit and vegetables market in the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden is 70%. Among the solutions that we propose in this law, the most important are the comprehensive regulation of the rules and functioning of agricultural cooperatives. Of course, agricultural cooperatives will still be subject to the fundamental cooperative right, which applies to all other cooperatives. But farmers' cooperatives, which should aim at doing business for their members in terms of production planning, adjusting the scale and quality of production to market expectations, concentration of supply, organisation of the sale of agricultural products to their members and concentration of demand and organisation of the purchase of agricultural inputs, will have additional preferences, additional regulations resulting from the proposed High House for the adoption of a law. The cooperative of farmers will be able to set up at least 10 farmers. The incentives put in place in this project are incentives in the form of an exemption from inheritance tax and donations, acquired contributions rights in farmers' cooperatives, exemptions from tax and local charges on buildings and buildings and parts thereof, as well as land seized by the cooperative or the association of farmers' cooperatives for the activities set out in the Act, i.e. those activities which involve the organisation of farmers in order to improve their situation, and corporation tax where the exemption will concern the income of farmers' cooperatives from the sale of agricultural products or groups of those products for which the cooperative was established. It will be a condition to produce these products on the agricultural holdings of the members of the cooperative. These reliefs are primarily intended to help cooperatives in the early stages of their activities, so they will concern those cooperatives which employ no more than 10 employees and whose... less than 10 employees and whose annual turnover or balance sheet total does not exceed EUR 2 million. Such a solution aims to create preferential conditions for newly created entities so that they can fulfil their tasks. The cooperative of farmers will create own funds: equity, stock and reciprocity. The draft also includes adaptation provisions that adapt the provisions of other laws to ensure that the project can function and be consistent with other acts. I hope that this project will help to increase the organisation of agricultural producers in Poland, to strengthen the process of creating small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural environment, in agriculture, to increase the economic strength of farms, to improve competitiveness in the agricultural product market, but also to raise awareness of the importance of organising farmers in common structures. As regards support for economic development, we predict that cooperatives will be able to report the need for means of production in a relatively larger quantity than single producers did and thus to obtain better prices. The project requires notification due to the exemption establishing public aid and the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development made such notification on 20 March this year. The project was consulted in the context of a public consultation and was addressed to 108 organisations. Nine organisations responded, seven made comments. The vast majority of the comments were taken into account, while for the others the reasons why the project could not be revised were broadly explained. High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I request that work be undertaken on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u277	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the comments of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the Act on Farmers' Cooperatives in Printing No. 1425. The Minister mentioned the history of European cooperatives. This is indeed a fascinating story that should give us all a lot to think about. European Cooperative Society, the beginning of which dates back to the first half of the 19th century. - probably the Association of Fair Weaver Pioneers of Rochdale is considered to be the first European cooperative... The development of cooperatives in various areas of economic activity has enabled Europe to develop. Cooperatives also played a very important role in Poland. Staszic has already talked about the fact that it is a joint rescue in poverty, and the first attempts at a common business were actually organized by him. Poland also clarified its own cooperative model, which was also part of the construction of patriotism, because thanks to cooperatives in Wielkopolska or wider, in the Prussian partition, Poles were able to survive in the expanding German element. Development of banking cooperatives - here we must remind Stefczyk or Fr. Lorenzo - it is also a model for many European countries: apart from Raiffeisen, it was modelled on Poles. The development of various forms of activity - which was carried out by Fr. Bliziński in Lisków near Kalisz - is another installment, in the Russian partition, the functioning of cooperatives. As the Minister mentioned, cooperatives developed well in the interwar period, covering an increasing area of agricultural activity - because it was primarily in agriculture that cooperative activity was the good, preferred form of joint economic activity. At the moment in Western Europe, most agriculture is based on cooperativeism, which has its European representation. It is COGECA, the General Committee of Agricultural Cooperatives, an organisation, an institution affiliated to the European Union, which represents agricultural cooperatives in the European Union. In Poland, the break-up of a period of good cooperative development occurred during the war and after the war, when cooperatives were included in the framework of the socialist economy. Attempts to collect agriculture, that is to say, forbids the peasants of the land - which previously the communists stole from the landowners and handed over to the peasants for political support - met with strong resistance, but unfortunately at the same time distorted the idea of cooperativeism. That's history. On the other hand, the question is why, at the end of the 20th century, when we started the transformation, and in the 21st century, cooperatives are not the preferred form by farmers. When we adopted the law on producer groups, giving the possibility to choose from four legal forms - association, association, company and cooperative - farmers were the rarest to choose a cooperative without having confidence in this form. Is that a question? Just a communist legacy? I think the problem is deeper. We therefore welcome the law that the Ministry of Agriculture has reported because it is trying - it is not known whether it is effective, but it is trying - to move towards strengthening the potential for market impact in terms of both purchasing and selling, because mainly this activity is to be devoted to, possibly, the common use of agricultural machinery. It gives real benefits to the operation of the cooperative model, the pursuit of a common economic activity, which is intended to strengthen the market position of peasant farms - precisely through this cooperative model. The exemption from real estate and corporate income tax is an important support for the organisation and operation of cooperatives in this form. Is this enough encouragement? I do not know, no one is able to determine whether this is enough to make cooperatives an important organizer of economic life in rural areas in Polish agriculture. We are generally individualists and it is difficult for us to cooperate with anyone, but it seems that the new generations that are entering agriculture no longer have this mental burden with a negative assessment of communist cooperatives, and maybe with more confidence than even my generation or my parents will want to create, carry out cooperative activities. Therefore - without getting into the details, because this law should, of course, be addressed to the committee; we need to work, to consider whether any other form of support could be applied - it is a law that goes absolutely in the right direction. I want to say that our club welcomes her and will support her. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u279	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Minister, your words today were like a lotion for my soul. One would like to say, finally. This is an expected bill. I have the honour to say on behalf of the Civic Platform Club that we will vote to refer this bill to the agricultural committee. But at the same time, I must say - on behalf of the club, which is an honor for me - that after examining the draft law, it is possible to pre-evaluate the initiative of statutory regulation of the rules for the creation and operation of cooperatives of farmers, which may be set up alongside already functioning agricultural cooperatives, cooperatives engaged in agricultural production, which operate on the basis of the applicable cooperative law. The legislation contained in the draft, in particular in terms of favourable economic and financial conditions, may give rise to the interest of farmers and existing agricultural cooperatives in creating stronger economic operators with specific objectives of joint action aimed at improving the efficiency of agricultural, agricultural production, including its commodityability. It follows from the justification of this project that the introduction of new solutions will improve the efficiency of farming in rural areas due to the extremely strong fragmentation of agricultural holdings in Poland, resulting in a large dispersion of the supply of offers. These are facts. In this regard, however, it is necessary to ask why measures are being taken in agricultural policy to the detriment of commodity holdings, such as current production cooperatives - which are completely different cooperatives than 70 years ago - or companies of the Treasury, by limiting their direct payments, for example. to 150,000. the euro or deprive them of the resources available from the RDPs for the modernisation of farms. Agricultural cooperatives have also been deprived of the possibility of purchasing land, even from their own members retiring. Minister, we've been working hard on this project, judging him. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 5 (2) is the minimum membership period per year. This is, in my opinion, too short a period, which may result in too frequent changes and instability of the cooperative's activities. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 there is a possibility that the number of shares can be determined annually - the lack of clear indication of how many shares the farmer will be liable for the loss of the cooperative. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 the exclusion of a member is assumed to deprive the right to a paid-in contribution; this is an unacceptable solution. In contrast, in the article. 21 When exempt from real estate tax, the property transferred to the cooperative by a member in the form of a non-monetary contribution, i.e. no cash, is introduced in a different form. The draft law does not provide for the possibility of adapting the statutes of the current producer groups operating in the form of cooperatives to the requirements of this law. In contrast, in the article. 22 an amendment to the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is envisaged in order to support the development of agricultural producer groups and farmers' cooperatives operating under that Act. I regret that we are currently forgetting - I repeat this once again in my speech today - about cooperatives that bring together farmers while producing together, because that is the will of the members. However, I believe that during the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the necessary additions to this draft law will be made, taking into account the interests of the working agricultural cooperatives. Mr. Marshal, I gave myself a moment of euphoria at the beginning, representing the Civic Platform Club, but on the other hand, I showed how many shortcomings the bill has. Laws should not and must not be imposed against any entities. I believe that every law, every regulation should differ positively from the previous one, and not in a veiled way to end it, because a certain elimination is unequal treatment. Minister, agricultural cooperatives are owned by their members. Today they are also multi-family farms. We hope as a Platform club that all these comments, and even wider, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will be included in this program and I can say with a smile in the courtroom, coming down from this bleacher that what I said at the outset that the club would vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u281	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u282	...for this bill, it will be received positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u283	Thank you very much. I would like to greet a group of young people from Czerwionka-Leszczyn, Knurowa, Wodzisław and Rybnik, who is with us in the room. [[Applause]] Greetings. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on farmers' cooperatives. Cooperatives, as a form of society's association, have many advantages, the most important of which are voluntaryity, initiative capacity, cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of emerging threats. There is no doubt that by combining knowledge, skills, experience and the involvement of many people together, we are able to achieve more than one person. It is important for members of cooperatives to be transparent, democratic voting rules, the inviolable right to decide how to manage their assets, and therefore the future law should protect and ensure the best interests of farmers associated with cooperatives. All over the world, cooperatives are the main form of citizens' association, which has a significant share in many sectors of the economy. For example, in the Netherlands almost 100% farmers are associated in cooperatives and more than 90% of all dairy and pig processing establishments are cooperatives. In France, farmers control more than half of the agricultural processing industry through cooperatives, and agricultural cooperatives - and their associations - are employers for around 150 000. people, which significantly contributes to the reduction of unemployment in rural areas. In Poland, agricultural cooperatives are not as popular as in Western European countries, which I hope will change this law. I do not want to focus on the analysis of the causes of Poles' dislike for cooperatives, I would like to draw attention to what I think is most important for the functioning of cooperatives, namely mutual trust between the people who form the cooperative and who are members of it. Trust is the basis on which each cooperative should be founded - it ensures stability and security that the cooperative's activities will not be lost by the irresponsible activities of the individual. The cooperative operates an activity which cannot be threatened by the inclusion of random persons in a series of cooperatives. Therefore, I cannot agree with the proposal contained in the proposal that the cooperative of farmers should not have the right to refuse to accept members of a farmer or non-farmer if it meets the requirements set out in the Act. It is understandable that the provisions of the Statutes should lay down the terms and conditions that a farmer wishing to join a cooperative must fulfil, but because of the fact that, at the outset, I have clearly stressed the essence of mutual trust in the functioning of the cooperative, entrusting the issue of membership only with rigidly defined provisions of the Statutes poses a serious threat to the existence of a cooperative and will discourage this form of association. A human factor that cannot be closed into a formal framework, and which is manifested, among others, in the form of a formal framework. in responsibility, maturity, degree of commitment, is the most important and cooperative members should decide who will be a member of it. Please note that cooperatives often have large assets which are owned by cooperative members, and that none of the States would agree that the right to co-decision on the property which you have worked on for many years would be affected by a random person who became a cooperative member because he meets the requirements set out in the Act. In conclusion, the solutions presented in the Government's draft law on farmers' cooperatives are heading in the right direction, and in the light of the doubts indicated, I propose that the draft law be sent to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to discuss the whole in detail and to introduce the necessary amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u285	Thank you very much. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is true that any form of consolidation of forces in our fragmented agriculture is desirable and the direction in which Polish agriculture should definitely strive. It is not without reason that I have been talking about this since the beginning of my work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - that small, fragmented farms, a weak agricultural structure that is too slow to evolve, are one of the main problems of the Polish village. Definitely in this direction. we must strive, but I have the impression that this government is not in this direction at all, for at least one and a half years it has not shown this. Today, the government is introducing a new way of organising agricultural markets, and in fact it is not continuing with all that we have achieved in the activities of producer groups, which have so far served as consolidation. As a reminder: in 2015 there were nearly 1400 pigs in pig farming, milk production, tobacco production, cereals and more than 300 in the fruit and vegetables sector. Most of them were created in Wielkopolska, Lower Silesia and Kujawy, least in south-eastern Poland. It is these forms of cooperation that are being supported today in other countries of the European Union. The farmer is the owner and producer there, but the organization of sales is common, the cooperative is governed by slightly different laws. I'm going back to the production groups. The government talks about consolidation of forces in agriculture, while I regularly hear voices about long-term, often unjustified controls involving precisely those producer groups which prevent them from doing their normal business and normal functioning. Of course, there was abuse, there were mistakes. They must be eliminated, the rules must be improved and further developed, because this is the direction in which the European Union is also going. It's very often said... The explanatory memorandum states that there is no interest in consolidation, production and supply, especially in voivodships on the south-east borders, as I have already mentioned, and that is where we most often have the smallest farms. My huge doubt is that, as I have already shown, if these areas have not previously benefited from the possibility of consolidating on the basis of existing possibilities - and the possibilities were huge, also to obtain additional resources, and I think that these advantages of joining forces in producer groups were greater than the property tax we are proposing today - then I do not think that suddenly the new law will automatically cause farmers in these areas to want to merge, expand and create large groups if they have not yet felt this need. I don't know if there's room in their consciousness for this kind of cooperation. As for the law itself: I completely do not understand why the Minister of Agriculture wants to decide on the type of production that may be covered by the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. Why not leave this decision to farmers? What guarantees do we have that decisions issued by the Ministry of Agriculture in the form of a regulation in the next year will not be amended, especially if the Minister of Agriculture changes to us? This is a form of lack of stability guarantee for farmers themselves, which may also raise doubts in their eyes. First of all, the problem is that the market should be left to the market rather than to identify the areas ourselves. If there is a space for action somewhere, for increasing the scale of sales, for cooperating in order to implement new investment projects, then the market should set out its own directions. This demand and the possibility of acquiring new markets should be determined, not by the Minister. After manual control of agricultural land in Poland it was time for manual control of the formation of agricultural cooperatives in Poland, and this is the direction Unacceptable by us. On the other hand, as far as such formal legal doubts are concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the greatest thing that's ever done to me. 7... I'm almost done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u287	And thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u288	...which says that the founders of the cooperative can only be farmers, and point 4 of this article talks about the principle of determining the number of votes in the cooperative whose owners...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. You've already run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u290	...are only legal persons. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You can see that this bill was written on your knee. There's more to this type of doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u291	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we were to talk about the role that cooperatives are to play in rural areas, in agriculture, we probably agree, and that was the speech, including the Minister's speech. If we were to refer to the historical importance of cooperatives and their importance today in the European Union, in the countries of Western Europe, we are also in agreement. Cooperatives have been active in rural areas for decades, for decades, in some cases for more than 100 years. They were the first form of joint management, joint selling or joint buying of inputs. In those countries where there was no communism, there was no socialism, and cooperatives continue. They developed over the past period. In Poland, cooperatives had their turbulence, but also during the right period of the past, i.e. at the time of the socialist system in Poland, many cooperatives functioned very well. They were not state cooperatives - I will mention here, for example, bank cooperatives, dairy cooperatives or garden-bee cooperatives - and they fulfilled in an excellent way the role which was attributed to the cooperative. On the other hand, it would be worth noting why cooperatives are not created today. They do not arise in Poland or in those countries of the Union that we have mentioned. Rather, capital companies, public limited liability companies or limited liability companies are set up to continue their economic activity in rural areas, and the unwillingness of cooperatives is due, for example, to the fact that any leader who is engaged in the creation of such an organism, a new economic entity, would like to have a slightly greater role than all others. But precisely because the cooperative still has a rule: one member - one vote at the general meeting, the cooperative cannot be dominated by any capital that would enter it and dominate it. And in this respect, we agree, and in this respect also my club supports this project in its entirety. If we treat this project as a resolution, i.e. as an intention, in which direction the development of cooperatives in Poland is to go - we must agree that it is going in the right direction. On the other hand, if we look at the details of this project, which the Minister was kind enough to present to us just now, saying that we are restoring the proper rank of cooperatives or returning to the best traditions, I would like to ask you where are the preferences that have been said so much about. Because today we can compare cooperatives to producer groups. After all, today a cooperative is one of the forms of management that can be a group of agricultural producers. No one has ever prevented farmers from organizing themselves in cooperatives, no one has forbidden farmers to be producer groups, and no one has prohibited the benefits that you are talking about today. I'm talking about the past eight or ten years. I will say even more that in the case of those solutions, who wanted to set up a cooperative in the agricultural field as a producer group, he received financial support at the very beginning, for example to cover the so-called. administrative costs, i.e. the development of statutes, the employment of employees, the hiring of offices, office services, etc. That's not what you're proposing today. So I wanted to ask you where these preferences, because as far as preferences are concerned, the property tax, today the groups of agricultural producers set up in the form of cooperatives are already exempt from real estate tax for doing business for their members. There's no novelty here. If we are talking about income tax, today also groups of agricultural producers involved in the trade and distribution of products from their members, and the income of this tax does not pay, so it is worth asking where are all the preferences that were mentioned so much in the justification of this project, because I do not see them at all. I would even say that, in relation to the solutions that exist, concerning the groups of agricultural producers, these preferences are much less. I will say even more, even this number that determines the minimum number of members, i.e. 10, less than required by the cooperative law today, also does not apply to groups of agricultural producers, because I will remind you that five members are sufficient in the cooperative law today, which can establish, for example, a group of fruit and vegetable producers. So not only do you not prefer cooperatives, as you say, but, in my opinion, you are presenting a political project that is designed to help us prepare the agricultural cooperatives bill, but there are really no such preferences. I would be more courageous here in expressing my view whether, after this law has entered into force, farmers will avalanchely start setting up cooperatives. They will not move avalanchely, because those who are already active today, who have been active, have chosen other forms of management or have even chosen a cooperative form, and in this case there is no preference - I say it clearly as a farmer, but the one who is today a member of the cooperative law-based producer group. And if I were to start a cooperative today based on the rules that you are proposing in this project, I would say that those that were a few years ago were definitely better for this type of initiative. You are also talking about the fact that this project will increase the negotiating position of the farmer, that it will be stronger on the market. Yes, in each formula a farmer working together will be stronger than a farmer acting individually, but in this respect absolutely nothing changes. But just because this project in its intention has a good direction, it has a good thought, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it'll be time to work on it at committee meetings...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u294	...make amendments so that he can actually start creating...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u296	...cooperatives in rural areas, because in this shape it does not guarantee it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u297	Nine ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u298	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, one of the consequences of this law will be the amendment to the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, indicating that one of its tasks will be to support the formation and development of farmers' cooperatives and their associations. So my question is: What tools will the agency receive for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u299	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear Young People at the Gallery! You have rejected the Kukiz15 project on agricultural chambers, you have frozen our draft laws on amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estates of the Treasury, on food inspection, on the depopulation of habitats and on several other projects to make life easier for people in the countryside and to encourage young people to work in agriculture. Please tell us what measures the government intends to take to support farmers in raising alternative sources of income and keeping farmers in the countryside. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u301	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that the agricultural cooperative project has gone to the Sejm. Last Monday at a conference in my parliamentary office after a Friday meeting in Słupsk with Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgiel I spoke about the promotion of agricultural cooperatives and the help in creating them. More can be done in the group, sir, more can be done in the group and safer. With the group in mind, I am not only thinking about the producer group, but about the farmers' cooperative. After the bill has been passed, I will undertake a job promoting agricultural cooperatives in my territory with the help of a group of professionals. Minister! What tools do we use to convince farmers to start agricultural cooperatives? This is particularly true of the leadership's conviction to take [[♪ The bell ♪]] appropriate actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u303	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question we are asking ourselves is whether the proposed support mechanisms will be sufficient for farmers to be interested in this form of common economic activity remains an open question. Of course, this will also depend to a large extent on the extent to which we will be able to carry out an effective information campaign among farmers. My question concerns existing cooperatives, especially production cooperatives, which are not well known, which, as I mentioned in the club speech, unfortunately were a dark part of the development of agriculture in the post-war period. But the survivors are well-organized multi-family farms. Many agricultural families work there, and I think it's the oasis of post-war creation that needs to be removed from them. Question: "Did the Ministry consider any form of modification of existing production cooperatives for the application of also those elements which may be covered by this Act?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] be beneficial to agricultural cooperatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u305	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I said, I stressed in my speech as a club's position, the most important thing is trust, without which farmers will not get together. Therefore, my question concerns the number of members setting up a cooperative. Why is it such a large number, why isn't it much smaller? The more people you know, the less trust you have in the whole group. At the same time, we know that in the proposed law we have an indivisible fund. The existence of such an undivided fund with such a large group of collaborators immediately creates such uncertainty: I will work for a few years, and then it will turn out that none of this and my work in large part will be in vain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u307	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a precise question, because in the catalogue of activities which farmers can deal with is trade, distribution, packaging, supplying production resources to members of the cooperative, but - note - there is also a record that the cooperative can handle the processing of the products of its members and directing them to distribution. Another point is that such a cooperative will not pay income tax on profits generated by trade in products produced by its members. However, it is not precisely said - that is what I wanted to ask - what will be the profit of processing products from members of cooperatives and marketing them and what is the question of linking this to income tax. Is there an income tax exemption in this case, or is there no income tax exemption?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u309	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is exactly the same caliber. what Mr Maliszewski's question is, i.e. it's not exactly explained. Could the Minister explain? So the cooperative, which will be created by the merger of 10 farmers, will build itself a great factory, no matter what kind of plant. Will the processed products that will be sold be subject to tax, or will they pay income tax on the profits of this processing? What's more, will they pay the real estate tax on the factory they're going to build as a cooperative? Who's gonna own it, and is it gonna be a real estate tax exemption? Because if that's the case, it's the best way not to pay real estate tax, just to bring together 10 farmers and build a big factory that won't pay real estate tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u311	Thank you. The question is asked by Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two pretty general questions. First thing. You have adopted such a structure that you regulate matters concerning farmers' cooperatives by a separate law, which has numerous references to the Cooperative Law. It was equally possible to adopt such a structure as to include these provisions in the cooperative law itself. Why the choice? Second line. It seems to me that they are not defined, there is no clear relationship between the proposed law and the law on groups of agricultural producers. If the Minister had been kind enough to say three words about it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u313	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I'd like to ask you if you know that there are now about 500 and 600 agricultural cooperatives. There were three and a half thousand of them. Several decades have passed since they were founded. These cooperatives are quite different than they have been for so many years back. Do you know that over the last decade, around 14% have arrived in Europe Agricultural cooperatives? Because independent organisations have said that they are doing better than companies and other entities, which has been the subject of the statements of some Members before me. The leading question, then, is why you did not immediately anticipate the participation of these cooperatives in the wider sense of the word. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and respect their present existence in this act...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u315	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u316	...which we have today on which we are discussing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u317	Minister Jacek Bogucki will speak at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer your questions. As regards support for cooperatives under the measures at the disposal of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, all these mechanisms will be available which are available to such legal entities already or for which recruitments will be carried out. There is no separate form of support, there is no separate path of support for this structure, but of course these entities will be able to benefit from any support that is available to legal entities, to cooperatives active in agriculture. When it comes to actions concerning existing cooperatives that have survived - this question has been repeated twice - it must be borne in mind that there is such an old principle: the absence of a reward is not a penalty. The lack of additional regulation is not a penalty for existing cooperatives, nothing is worse for these cooperatives, nothing is taken away. The support mechanism provided for in the case of the creation of cooperatives is a mechanism that operates at the beginning of the functioning of the new entity. It must be borne in mind that the income tax relief not only deprives the State of its income but also reduces the revenue of local governments, that the real estate tax exemption is entirely borne by the local government. That is why we have decided on a solution that will not be charged to local governments. It seems impossible, but yes, because we assume that there will be entities that, if not for this bill, would never have been created, which would never have been. So they don't have those payers, they don't exist at the moment. There will be, farmers will join in cooperatives, but in this way they will not reduce the income potential of local governments, and at the most there will be no effect in terms of income increases. I think this is a compromise that allows us to encourage farmers to join, but at the same time not to burden them with reducing their income potential. The number of members. Why so big? It seems to me that it is a little too small to be a strong economic entity, given the structure of our agriculture and how big cooperatives are, which are doing well on European markets, also on the Polish market. In general, they are members of at least a dozen farmers. [[Thousands even.]] Maybe hundreds, thousands less. So 10 is not a very large number, but it is also important to remember that we have bad experiences with these small players, in the case of producer groups, and five members were admitted as founders of the group. Unfortunately, too often it happened that the founders of the group were five members, including four related family members, from a holding which had previously been divided, and the group was formed only to obtain grants and not to achieve any added effect. [[It's deviant.]] So the number 10 is, it seems, a minimum number and an optimal number. This is also the answer to the question of why we have not decided to prevent farmers who are interested from joining the cooperative. We want them to be open players, so that they are actors to which farmers will come together and be able to join. Of course, if anyone is harming the cooperative, they should be excluded, and the relevant statutory body of the cooperative has the right to exclude such a person. As far as income tax is concerned, it does only apply to the part that comes from the sale of raw materials, agricultural products produced on the holding concerned. As far as property tax is concerned, the Member is right that a processing plant can also be set up, but let us remember that we have a limitation: 2 million balance sheet total or annual turnover. This is not the amount that allows for the creation of a large company, that is the amount that allows the creation of a possible small factory. At this stage, support should be provided and we are determined to provide such support to the full extent as is apparent from the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and 2, the object of the operation of such a cooperative. One more basic question. It's a cooperative case, it's a group thing. There's no contradiction here. If a cooperative of farmers is set up under this law, it may at the same time meet the criteria required to be a producer group and benefit from the support which is addressed to producer groups in the current financial perspective. And finally, what tools do we use to encourage farmers to join the cooperative? First of all, good examples need to be shown. Yesterday, I had a group of farmers who had created not a cooperative, because it was the previous cooperative law that they considered too unattractive for themselves, but the association of producers. These farmers were able to accumulate in excess of 100, they could sell jointly bred animals, they could also collect several million zlotys in their organization's account to support themselves later in order to develop their activities. Such good examples of cooperatives were created in accordance with this law. They will be the best incentive for farmers to unite, because it is worth integrating their activities, it is worth joining cooperatives. I would like to thank you for the substantive discussion on this project and I would like to thank you for your willingness to continue working in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u319	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives. As the applicants point out, the current dispersal of agricultural activities puts particular farmers at a disadvantage, who are pressured by consumers, among others. to constantly lower prices. I agree that it is important to take action to strengthen the position of agricultural producers while giving them the opportunity to better match the quality and quantity of production to customers' needs. The government's proposal for a comprehensive law regulating the rules and functioning of agricultural cooperatives, encouraging farmers to cooperate within such organisations, is intended to be an appropriate measure. Tax exemptions for newly created operators are to be introduced as a major incentive for association in agricultural cooperatives. According to the provisions of this project, the task of the cooperatives will be to carry out a joint economic activity on behalf of their members. It will cover, among others. planning and adapting production to market conditions and the sale and processing of products produced by farmers. As regards a number of regulations relating to the structure of agricultural cooperatives, it is worth mentioning that they will be voluntary operators of at least 10 farmers and that only members who are farmers will be allowed to sit on their supervisory boards. I agree with the conclusions reached that these solutions will ensure the continued consolidation of these entities and that the activities undertaken by the cooperative will be entirely in line with its agricultural interests and the interests of its individual members. I believe that the Polish farmer cannot be used as long as he has the right legal mechanisms for doing so. There is no doubt that in other European countries agricultural cooperatives carry out their tasks. This form of farm association increases their market competitiveness. They become stable and economically strong players, thus increasing their negotiating position vis-à-vis large customers who are already used to taking advantage of their advantage. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, recognising the positive aspects of the proposed solutions, will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u321	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives contained in print No 1425 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws (print No 1406). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Act on National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws, print No 1406. Maybe I should talk first about the reasons for the amendment. By Act of 18 March 2016 on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws of the Republic of Poland, the formation of the first assessors positions in the general court was postponed until 30 October 2017 and the selection of new, partially decentralised specialized applications was postponed over a year, thus extending the functioning of the existing two-step model of initial education covering the general application and the following specialized applications, i.e. judicial and prosecutorial applications. The legislator pointed out that the training model at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office adopted in 2015 had disadvantages that had to be eliminated before its implementation. The analysis of the functioning of the national school since its establishment in 2009 and the existing models of coming to the profession of the judge in Poland indicates that there are no statutory guarantees for graduates of the national school who receive professional training, the receipt of judicial or asessor posts despite the passed judicial examination. This is an obvious social loss and a loss of high financial expenditure incurred annually by the state budget for education at the national school. Only 28 referee applicants from 165 referee applicants who have the power to apply for vacant judicial positions have been appointed. This is the best proof of this thesis I've just presented. The analysis I am talking about has also shown the existence in practice of the functioning of the general judicial system shortcomings and bureaucratic regulation which are unnecessary in terms of efficiency in the management of justice. The draft amendment provides for the regulation of the legal situation of persons who have completed their judicial application at the national school and those who are currently taking part in it or who will take place under existing rules by 2020. During this time, applicants who started training on the general application on 30 January 2017 will take the judge's exam. Graduates and applicants of the first four years of the judge's application, in accordance with the current legal state, are guaranteed the right to apply by means of a competition for the position of judge of the regional court. This power shall be exercised by virtue of Article. 24 of the Law of 10 July 2015 amending the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws would expire on 31 December 2022. Next year's graduates from V to VIII are obliged to go through the judicial assesura, and they must apply for the position of asessor in competitions, competing with lawyers representing other professions, e.g. with lawyers. Therefore, we are calling for the following changes in this law. We propose that a new model be introduced to the profession of judge. The judicial application carried out at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office will constitute a basic way of reaching the profession of a judge with complementary recruitment of candidates for the judicial service from other legal professions. The amendments introduced by the law will contribute to the maximum number of applicants for judicial employment in the general court. It is reasonable for the institution of the judicial assessor to link to the adopted model of initial training of candidates for judicial positions. In the current state of law, access to the position of asessor was provided for many groups of candidates whose vocational training did not take place at such a substantive level and with as high public involvement as for graduates of the national school. The proposed regulation assumes that only those who have completed the application at the national school and have submitted a judge's or prosecutor's examination with positive results can be appointed as a judicial assessor. Assessor positions will be given priority to judicial applicants, however, in the absence of all assessor positions by the applicants of the judicial application in the criminal departments, the Minister of Justice will be able to order the appointment of these posts for prosecutors' applications. The head of the national school will publish a list of vacant posts and call on prosecutors who passed the prosecutor's exam in a given year to report their intention to take the position within 14 days. In view of the above, it is desirable that, after the application has been completed, the result of the judge's examination, possibly the prosecutor's decision on the priority of the admission to the judicial asseurium, and after the course of the service, if there is no objection to the course of the service, the assessor will receive a proposal for a judge's nomination without having to participate in the competition. The project assumes that the possibility of appointment as an assistant will also be extended to applicants of these yearbooks of the judge's application, who have already passed the judge's exam on the date of entry into force of this Act - we are talking here about the first four yearbooks of applicants - as well as the referees and assistants of judges who passed the national judge's exam in 2011/2016. If they do not choose an assessor position, they will have the opportunity to apply for a judicial position within 5 years from the date of entry into force of the Act. According to the draft, the Minister of Justice will appoint as a judicial assistant for an indefinite period. If the National Judicial Board does not object to the appointed assailant, it will be able to act as judge for a period of 4 years. In this way, the independence of the judicial assailant will be guaranteed, on the one hand, by breaking up after the act of appointment of the link between the assailant and the Minister of Justice and, on the other hand, by ensuring the influence of the National Judicial Council on the delegation of judicial assesors to serve as judges, as well as on the impact on further career as a judge. [[Game in the O.R.]] The Member speaks louder than I do. The Assistants will not be able to rule on the following matters, which I stress: the application of a temporary arrest in pre-trial proceedings in the event of the transfer of the detained court, together with a request for provisional arrest, and the recognition of complaints of refusal to initiate an investigation or investigation, of orders to terminate an investigation or investigation or of orders to terminate the investigation and to register the case in the Register of Crimes and to recognise cases in the field of family and custody law. In other categories of cases, the asessor's powers will be exactly like that. Same as the magistrate's authority. Regulations are also introduced which will oblige graduates of the national school to take office in the judiciary and the prosecution's office after the application has been completed. If the applicant fails to pass the judge's or prosecutor's exam, he will not accept the proposal to be an assistant or, within 6 years of completing the application, will not be employed for at least 3 years in the general court or prosecutor's office, he will be required to return the scholarship. Candidates with other professional qualifications than graduates of the national school will be able to apply for judicial positions in the competition procedure on the basis of the existing rules. The project provides for changes in the application for judicial positions by persons employed as referee, assistant judge and assistant prosecutor of the prosecutor's office. The referees and assistants will only be able to take the judge's exam during a transitional period - within 2 years of the entry into force of the law or 2 years from the acquisition of the rights required for the examination. After a positive examination, assistants and referees will be able to apply for a judge's post within 5 years from the date of the examination. As far as prosecutors are concerned, they will not be able to apply for judicial positions and those fulfilling the conditions for appointment to judicial positions on the date of entry into force of the Act will have 5 years to apply for appointment. On the basis of the transitional regulation, as I would like to stress, the powers of those persons who, at the date of entry into force of the proposed law, fulfilled the conditions for the appointment of a judge of a regional court under the provisions of the Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act of 9 April 2015 amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. assistants and referenda after the general application, and art. 65, i.e. people after the so-called an old judicial application and people after the so-called. An old asshole. It's an art. 65 of the Act of 23 January 2009 on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. They shall retain the right to apply for a vacant judicial position for 5 years from the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The project does not provide for changes in the application for a prosecutor's position by persons employed as Assistant Prosecutors. Prosecutors' assistants will be able to continue to take the public prosecutor's exam on the basis of the article. 179 Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and Art. 12 Act of 9 April amending the Law on National School and certain other laws. The project strengthens the role of the national school in the process of training candidates to take judicial positions in the general court and prosecution. It restores the national school's full competence to organize applications, organise practices and restores the applicant's status as a national school scholar. There is a departure from the application for judicial and prosecutorial status of an employee of the court or of the prosecutor's office. It is therefore necessary to restore the rules on suspension of the applicant in his rights and obligations, as well as the rules on granting and reimbursement of the scholarship. The bill assumes that applicants will be covered by a scholarship system. Under the proposed regulations, applicants would not be protected under the universal social security system. The main feature of the proposed changes is the material support of applicants by paying a percentage of the scholarship, including in the case of illness and motherhood. The introduction of a mechanism to support applicants who become parents is necessary, among others. because of the need to implement the country's pro-family policy. The project also strengthens the position of the head of the national school and shapes the interaction of the national school authorities. There is a reduction in the composition of the Programme Board, as well as a reduction in its competences, as it becomes an advisory and advisory body in relation to the school head. According to the project, the Minister of Justice includes a national school of organisational supervision. The project involves a joint call for a judge and prosecutor's application. In order to harmonise the education and evaluation of applicants, it is proposed to set up national school coordinators. The project also proposes changes to the competition of the referendator. Firstly, candidates who passed the referee's examination, judge, prosecutor, notarial, solicitor's or solicitor's examination, or have completed the competition, and this is a novelty, judge's application or prosecutor's application. The project provides for the introduction of a referenda exam, to which legal graduates will be able to take part. The referenda exam will be managed by the Minister of Justice. The proposed law grants the staff of the courts and the prosecutor's office an allowance for posting to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the current state of law, such an allowance shall be received only by an official of the court or the prosecutor's office delegated to the Ministry of Justice or the Public Prosecutor's Office. That should be changed. This is the first group, the basic group of rules in this law. There's a second group, too. I will only present the most important amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts. Firstly, it is desirable to limit the possibility for judges to apply for a transfer to another place of business, which should ensure the stabilisation of judicial staff in individual courts. In the event of failure to take account of the application, the judge may submit a further request for a transfer no earlier than 3 years after the expiry of the period, unless the reason for refusing to take account of the application was merely the lack of a sufficient number of free judicial posts in respect of the number of applications. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce a regulation which will allow the disciplinary liability of the judge to be waived if he agrees to be held liable for the offence. These are, as a rule, traffic offences. Thirdly, it is assumed that there are grounds for granting leave to the judge by the Minister of Justice for the treatment of ill-health. Fourthly, in view of the need to eliminate the doubts arising from the existing content of the regulation, it is clear that the reimbursement of travel expenses is also payable to the judge when he carries out business duties outside the seat of the court, department or local centre. Analogical regulation exists in relation to prosecutors when they perform their duties at the local office of the prosecution's office. During absence from work due to illness, but no more than one year, the judge will receive 80% remuneration, but due to delays in the process before the National Council of the Court of Justice of applications for the transfer of the judge to rest after the end of this year, until the examination of the application, it is envisaged that the judges will be paid 75% salaries. The aim of this action is to provide adequate financial security for the period between the remainder of the judge's business relationship and his retirement. Exactly the same regulation is designed for prosecutors. Delegated judges to perform their duties or duties outside the State shall be entitled to an allowance for posting, and it is therefore proposed that such entitlement should also be granted to judges in the case of the delegation of a judge in the framework of the international cooperation of the national school. The last two changes are already very small. The Law on Opinional Teams of Experts is being amended. It aims to amend the rules for calculating the Jubilee Prize available to the Head of Opinion of the judicial team of experts or specialists employed in those bodies, since the current regulation contained in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act is the only provision for determining the rules for calculating the Jubilee Prize as multiples of the monthly basic salary and not times of the monthly remuneration, i.e. basic salary, including allowances granted and other work benefits. This regulation is modelled on provisions concerning staff of state offices, judicial staff and prosecutors, assistants of judges, curators, referees, teachers or members of the civil service corps. Amendments to the Law of 26 May 1982. Law of 6 July 1982 on legal advisers concern training by applicants in the field of the operation of the general court and the prosecutor's office. The agreement on these trainings will be signed by the Minister of Justice with the President of the Supreme Bar Council and the President of the National Council of Legal Counsels respectively. The other very minor changes to the results concern the Act on employees of courts and prosecutors, the Act on the proclamation of normative acts, the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, as was mentioned. The project was subject to agreement with the members of the Council of Ministers, opinion and public consultation. The Minister of Justice responded to all comments made by the ministers for digitisation, family and work and other ministers. At its meeting of 9 March, a standing committee adopted the project and recommended it to the Council of Ministers. On 10 March, an exemption from the legal commission was granted. On 14 March the Council of Ministers adopted the bill and on 17 March the project was addressed to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Sorry about the long paper, but the bill is long and complicated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u323	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Bud will speak first on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u324	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. Indeed, a rather precise and detailed explanation of the law by the Minister directs me towards the conclusion of my position, the presentation of possible conclusions and final opinions on the evaluation of the draft submitted. This is indeed a comprehensive regulation. The effect of the ministry's work indicates that the deferral of the 2015 Act was necessary. The number of amendments and modifications to the system adopted in 2015 show that there was really a need for reflection, a conference, a debate and a discussion on the shape of training for future judges and professions around the European Union, because we also have regulations on this. In addition, regulation of the status, you can say, by means of these special strict or paraworking powers, is absolutely necessary. The problem we have faced so far, i.e. The problem of non-use of the potential of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office by making little use of the experience of its addressees, the training and qualifications acquired during the application resulted in the school giving candidates for judges, final judges, ultimately appointed judges only in a small percentage. This caused the school to lose its goals in fact, not to achieve its objectives, i.e. Despite the costly long-term training procedure, it did not ultimately lead to the training of future judges. It was a small percentage, it seems, of a dozen percent of people who completed their application at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, eventually became judges. The solutions relating to the strict assesura, and in particular the previous experience and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, indicate that the clarification of the status of asessor contained in this Act was necessary from the point of view of the requirements set out by the Constitutional Tribunal. The ruling laid down the conditions under which the assessor may perform judicial activities in which the assessor may carry out the tasks entrusted to him. The Act implements all these observations and all those assumptions which are necessary for the functioning of the profession of asessor. For all these reasons, the Law and Justice Club will support the bill and ask for it to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present its position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. The proposed reform significantly changes the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, these changes should be assessed critically. They lead to an increase in the degree of dependence on the Minister of Justice, not only the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also its graduates, i.e. future judges. These changes, which I stress with all determination and full responsibility, are dangerous for the independence and independence of the Polish justice system. They are in direct violation of the Constitution and are in contradiction with the case law of the Constitutional Court. It can be said that the projector did this intentionally to achieve a specific political objective, i.e. to ensure that the Minister of Justice has a real impact on the persons issuing judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland. The draft law regulates the institution of the judicial assessor restored on 1 January 2016 after several years of interruption. However, the manner of appointment and dismissal described, as well as the scope of the powers conferred, raises huge concerns about practically all legal backgrounds. According to the existing rules, the judicial assessor as the person empowered to settle cases in court and deliver judgments should be appointed as judges, i.e. by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council following an objective competition. However, Minister Ziobro proposes that it should be for him, on a one-man basis, to appoint the assistants and delegate them to the duties of judge. This solution is clearly in breach of Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 176 constitutions constituting a threefold division of power and separation of the judicial authority from the Such dependence on the Minister of Justice of the Tribunal has been found by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 24 October 2007 to be incompatible with the Constitution because of an infringement of the Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 providing that every citizen has the right to a fair trial. Minister Ziobro and his deputies are certainly familiar with the content of this ruling, but this solution is being introduced again with premeditated intent. Another proposal contained in the draft law, namely the preference of court assessors in the pursuit of the profession of judge, is not part of this. Because those whose professional fate will depend on the Minister of Justice will have priority in obtaining the status of judge. The best proof of this is the introduction of the principle that those who hold the positions of the judicial assessor will not have to take part in competitions for a free judicial position, while the competition road will be the only one for referenda, assistants of judges, prosecutors or professionals. This is another violation of the Constitution, namely its Article. 60, according to which Polish citizens who exercise their full public rights have the right to access public service on an equal basis. Naturally, therefore, fear and doubt arise as to the true intention of this solution. A small proposal to remove from the composition of the examination committee, in which the majority have representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the only representative of the National Judicial Board, is also a certain addition to the above amendments. Changes to the Programme Board should also be critically assessed. The Act assumes that it is not her chairman chosen by the Council itself from among the members, and that the head of the national school will have a real impact on the management of the work of the Programme Board. Let me just add that the head of the national school is, of course, appointed and cancelled by the Minister of Justice. In addition, legal authorities are excluded from the composition of the professional council and the participation of representatives of the National Courts of Justice is limited. The project also deprives the Council of its direct impact on the development of timetables for school activities, the adoption of application programmes, approval of the annual report on school activities, as well as the possibility of submitting candidates for lecturers. Practically all the competences of the board have been limited and its previous competences have been entrusted to the school's principal. In order to sum up this bill, the following description can be made: the organisation of the school and the training of applicants will take place in a manner determined by the persons appointed solely by the Minister of Justice. The examination committee, also fully subordinate to the Minister, will decide on the future of the professional graduates of the school as assessors. Then, instead of the President, the Minister will entrust the duties of judge and take the oath, and ultimately they will be entitled to the status of judge in the first place. Let me remind you that the same Minister of Justice is also the head of all prosecutors in Poland. If we add to this another bill destroying in fact the National Judicial Council, then we create a grim and grotesque image of the justice system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which one politician will decide on millions of cases of Polish citizens. In view of the huge reservations of the constitutional nature of the Civic Platform Club, it calls for the rejection of this draft law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u327	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club in relation to printing No 1406 concerning the amendment of the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. Well, as a Kukiz club, as a Kukiz movement from the very beginning we were behind another judge model, that is the crown of the profession. Therefore, we are strongly opposed to the school of judges and prosecutors as merely the right path to becoming a judge. This is the wrong way. If that's the case, if we think it's a good road, then let's set up a school of MPs and a school of senators. We won't have a problem. We'll train Members, Senators, and we'll put them on the bench here. It'll be the best way to get to work. I want to go back to one more thing. Minister, I understand that a lot of resources have gone to judicial school and need to be developed. But I would also like to remind you that the justice system has been reformed badly since 1990. What the government comes, it's reforming it. And so another government reforms him again. The next one's coming, he's gonna reform him again. First of all, we're gonna... I do not know how you want to implement the content of the article in this education model. 45 constitutions, i.e. that everyone has the right to a fair and transparent examination of the case. How do you want to carry out the article? 7 Code of Criminal Procedure, which speaks clearly about life experience? What life experience does a judge - an applicant, and then a judge - leave Krakow's judicial school, who knows little about life? I've also learned a very significant thing, let me read it. On p. 34 of the project was written in this way: In cases recognised as one judge, the judge may entrust an applicant to a national school who has completed 24 months of the judicial application, to conduct individual activities under his supervision during a public hearing or trial, including questions to experts and parties and other persons heard by the court, excluding the possibility of issuing judgments. Well, Minister, the biggest problem is that the minutes of hearings or meetings do not correspond to the actual course. You have to be able to ask a question in court. I ask you where the principle of directness is and what this article is supposed to be about, so I don't really understand if the judge is going to sit in the office and the applicant is going to sit in the courtroom and ask questions, or the judge is going to sit in the courtroom and listen to what the applicant is going to do? In the latter case, it is still understandable to me. Not the first one. This is the first case. As far as I'm concerned, there's absolutely no record of periodic psych evaluations in this bill. I stress this repeatedly and I say one thing: the profession of the judge and the profession of the prosecutor are very incriminating professions, especially in the case of young people, and since there is a plague of psychiatric diseases in Poland - it is estimated that about 10% - she's the one who has to get the judges, too. Let's not be charmed. The judges are not a special caste, they also get sick. Then this is an unacceptable matter for me. When it comes to the fact that the assesaurs are appointed by the Minister, in a situation where he is overseeing them, I will not go back to that. There's one other thing that a prosecutor after a prosecutor's exam can change his profession and go to a judge. Minister, the D.A. is trained to follow orders, so his biggest disadvantage is that he's submissive. So how can he be an independent judge in the future? Explain it to me because I can't explain it to myself. There are many other minor shortcomings here, but we are talking in principle: we would like an objective court, a justice court and a non-party court, so in this situation we will ask for the rejection of the bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u329	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is another act aimed simply at subjugating the judiciary of the executive authority. PiS policies dream that the submission of future judges will start at the training stage. This law, in its present form, violates the principle of three divisions of authorities in a clear way, which is underlined by, among others, the principle of division of authorities. in its opinion, the National Judicial Council. The bill's records do not restore the institution of the court's assailant, that's a lie. This institution was restored as early as 2015. The amendments are only intended to make the assistants dependent on the Minister, among others. by the appointment of the Minister as judicial advisors, he will appoint them a place of business, actually entrusting the assistants with the duties of judge or taking the oath from the assistants. However, these actions should be carried out by authorities directly related to the judicial authority, such as: The KRS, or the President of the competent court or the President. High Izbo! In the proposed act, the PiS also proposes narrowing the circle of people who can become judges to graduates of the school. This solution is actually unacceptable, which has been strongly underlined, among others. in the opinion of the nationwide association of judicial assessors: Currently court assessors, as well as judges, appoint the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the National Judicial Council after carrying out an objective competition. Meanwhile, the Minister wishes to appoint these persons himself, and only among the graduates of the judicial application conducted at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office supervised by him. The content of the proposed amendments raises significant concerns regarding their compatibility with the Constitution and international standards of the right to court. To date, judges' assistants and referees have been able to apply for a judge's position through a competition because of their extensive experience and considerable legal knowledge. Now the PiS wants to take away this opportunity, restricting their further development. The judges' assistants and referenda are persons who have held the so-called. An old app. The Polish state has already invested funds, and it is not small, and efforts for their best preparation for the office of the judge. After the adoption of the PiS Act, they will have no prospect of taking up this function. High Izbo! The Law proposed by PiS also does not provide for limits on assessors' seats. According to the Themis Association's opinion, this law directly gives the Minister a chance to control (...) the stream of candidates for judicial positions, in extreme cases which completely exclude the supply of personnel from outside of those who have passed education at the national school. Such a provision limits universal access to public service, to which Poles have the right in accordance with the article. 60 constitutions. High Izbo! Finally, it is important to address attempts to politicalise the school's programme board. The members of the Council would be appointed again by the Minister and five of them would be directly or indirectly related to him. The number of members indicated by the National Judicial Council has also been reduced - one instead of the previous three. On the other hand, it would be appropriate for the members of the Board to be appointed also by the President of the General Bar Council, the President of the National Council of Legal Councils and the President of the National Council of Notarial Councils. This would ensure pluralism and greater social control by bodies of public trust. The state-of-the-art position is that if a very large amount of money comes from the state budget to train applicants, the state should also take care of the jobs for those who passed the test, as is the case across Europe. Except that the records should be designed so that the appointment of judicial assistants, the appointment of professional assistants, the assignment of judges or the taking of oaths from asses could not depend on the good or bad will of the Minister of Justice, and it was simply the result of the exam. High Izbo! In short, the proposed law is non-constitutional. It is subject only to increasing the political influence of the PiS. The independence of institutions that train future judges is as important as the independence of the judiciary itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u331	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u332	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws contained in the Seym Printing No 1406. I agree, Minister, that the project actually makes an impression comprehensively, it is also a project with broad justification. And I would also agree that so far the career path for judges was not perfect. We have it, I think, all consciousness. You write in the explanatory memorandum that you are proposing solutions to introduce a new model of access to the profession of a judge and strengthen the role of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the process of training candidates to take up positions in the General Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. You also write in the explanatory memorandum that you are proposing that the judicial application at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office should be a fundamental way of getting to the profession of judge. In practice, this means that, as a rule, graduates of the national school with the best grades will have priority in applying for assesorium and judicial positions. You also state that priority will be given to the applicants of the national school after the judge's examination. In the absence of all assessors' posts in the criminal courts by the applicants of the judicial application, the Minister of Justice will be able to assign them to prosecutors' applicants. It is also proposed that the appointment of a referee should also be possible after the examination has been submitted in the new formula. The judicial and prosecutorial applicants who complete the application but fail the judge's or prosecutor's examination will be able to apply for the positions of referee. Everything is fine, but unfortunately, Minister - I will not be original, it also sounded out of the mouth of the previous speakers - it fits into a context. You are talking about the government's comprehensive reform, the repair of the judiciary in Poland. It is only a pity that this is taking place through a very drastic, far-reaching politicisation of the entire structure of the judiciary. This structure needs to be repaired, and here we agree on the diagnosis, but this really is not the way we would be able to agree in this Chamber, to get some broader consensus. Unfortunately, this proposal gives the Minister of Justice the right to appoint advisors, appoint them a place of work, entrust the actual duties of the judge and take the oath away from them. At the same time, the Minister of Justice, acting as Prosecutor General, significantly strengthens its position and influence on judicial training. At the same time, it marginalises the influence of the National Council of Judicial Affairs and the judiciary on the training of future judges. The KRS will be deprived of influence on asessors' nominations, and alumni supervised by the school minister will be asessors. Unfortunately, this does not allow us to support this project. We also agree to the motion to reject it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u333	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy? [[There isn't.]] Then it is Mr Janusz Sanocki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the state of the Polish judiciary, the justice system requires profound changes. I say this on behalf of myself, my conscience, my consciousness, on the basis of my diagnosis resulting from many years of contacts, helping people affected by the justice system and on behalf of, I believe, millions of Poles who see this state. This is a true condition, but it's not possible to draw false methods out of real circumstances. The proposed method as one of the laws that would correct the justice system does not, on the contrary, go in the opposite direction. First of all, you have to realize that the role of a judge is not a profession, it's a public authority. Same as the power of a Member, a Senator or a President. It is therefore impossible to be educated as an MEP, for example. Art. 4 the constitution, the fundamental principle of the republic, democracy, says that the sovereignty belongs to the nation, and determines how the nation exercises this power: either directly or through representatives. Thus, there cannot be such a path of access to the exercise of public authority, the judicial authority, because it is the public authority, part of the public authority, that we obtain it through a combination of education and the decision of the minister. As the speakers emphasized here, it is simply absolutely unacceptable for the Minister to have such a de facto influence on the appointment of the judge and on the work of the court, on the action of the court. It's just making a mess in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to my colleagues from the PiS, who, I believe, have gained their position, most of them in the Seym, in the Senate, promising honesty, integrity and problem-solving, not state ownership. Unfortunately, this is state-inflation. Krakow school should be eliminated, this is a waste of money, this is fiction, this is some kind of systemic puriazum, that you can educate and gain public authority, de facto irreplaceable, lifelong, on the basis of passing exams. After all, the judge is someone who has to prove himself and ethically, and professionally, and certain integrity, integrity, authority in society. It can't be someone who just passed the exams, got the status, and no one's gonna cancel. I really appeal to people, to my colleagues, my friends from the PiS, whom I know here, who, I see, think logically in individual conversations. Meanwhile, in the band you commit such cardinal offenses and it is simply a mess made in the state. This bill cannot be adopted, I appeal to you to step back from this path. No one will be individually filmed, unable to rule the state in such a way. We need to create healthy, fair mechanisms of social control over the judiciary, the choice of Members, either indirectly or directly, that is to be determined, but certainly not on such a basis. You're welcome. I am against this law and it is, I believe, just a disastrous way for Poland and for you as a political formation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u335	Thank you, sir. You have reached Mr Ireneusz Gaina. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u336	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. The proposed project involves changes in the rules on access to the competition of the judge and the prosecutor, as well as directly related changes in the organisation and functioning of the National Judicial and Public Prosecutor's Office, changes in the taking of judicial and prosecutoral examinations and changes in the case of judicial assessors. These regulations are intended to introduce a new coherent system of education and selection of qualified staff in the judicial and prosecutorial services. It is worth noting the considerable complexity of the current rules of access to the magistrate's and prosecutor's offices. Due to frequent modifications of application rules at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office for the individual yearbooks of graduates of this school, different rules of recruitment for judicial positions were in force. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill opiniond, out of the number of 66 graduates of the 2013 judge's application, 100 graduates from 2014, 103 of 2015 received only 19 nominations. Graduates of the national school after a long and intense intellectual training instead of proving themselves as judges perform the official work of referenda and assistants. The judge's position, regardless of the outcome of the judge's examination in the current system for some graduates of the school, may not be available. So much for the justification of the bill. The applicant proposes that, instead of the current judicial investigation system, a judge and prosecutor based on several different paths, the lead path should lead through the application at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and be completed with an appropriate examination. Supplementary recruitment would be carried out from among those who practiced for an appropriate period in other legal professions. In addition, provisions would be introduced introducing a transitional period of 5 years for the exercise of the right to appoint a judge for persons who have already fulfilled the conditions for applying for a judge's position in accordance with the provisions of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle states that the profession of a judge should be the crowning of a legal career rich in gained life experience and knowledge. With all due respect to the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose functioning is extremely necessary, it should be pointed out that its graduates are often young people who are about 30 years old. Despite a thorough education combined with a number of practical activities, they often lack the necessary experience of life and general knowledge necessary for the proper pursuit of the judge's profession on social or economic issues which are absolutely necessary for the resolution of a large number of legal cases that are important for the fate of citizens. Such qualities are undoubtedly of considerable benefit in legal practice or in the scientific work of lawyers, lawyers or prosecutors, as well as notaries. Therefore, their right to access the profession of judge should be much wider than in the proposed project. It should not be of a complementary character. This does not prejudice the possibility for graduates of the national school to include free judicial positions, and those who do not have the option should take precedence over the positions of assistants and referees who are de facto also a substantive part of the judiciary. These are the people who prepare the projects for judicial decisions, resolutions, judgments, and the referees even issue decisions in their respective fields of competence. At the same time, we share the concern expressed by the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers in its opinion of 17 March 2017 on the draft submitted, in which the Council points out that a 5-year period during which applicants who have applied under the current rules and who have already completed it and are acting as an assistant or referee retain the right to appoint a judge of a regional court may lead to violations of constitutional rules relating to the protection of individual's trust in the State and its law. As we can read in the opinion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that period may be too short and constitute an illusory entitlement. In order to assess the length of the transitional period, account should also be taken of the long-term nature of the competition procedure, the lack of possibility of taking part in several competitions at the same time and the participation of other legal practitioners. Last sentence, Marshal. It therefore appears appropriate to abolish either the period during which the categories of persons concerned retain the right to be appointed as judges or to extend them accordingly, e.g. Up to 10 years old. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle request that the bill be submitted for further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u337	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If there are no more people willing to ask the question, I close the list of people saved. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u338	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Undoubtedly, we are dealing with another law of law and justice, which gives unprecedented, unconstitutional powers to the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General. The explanatory memorandum to this non-constitutional and intrusive principle of the threefold division of power of the draft law states that one of the arguments to justify the proposed solutions is inter alia. positive opinions of the judicial community. I ask the Minister to indicate which environments the designer, the applicant meant, since the National Council of the Court of Justice, the Association of Polish Judges, the Supreme Court, the Agreement of Professional Governments of Legal Associations, the Association of Assistant Judges and others have adversely assessed this bill, indicating, among others. on: dependence on the Minister of Justice of the Court of Justice - the Prosecutor General's Office while maintaining only the appearance of its irrevocableity, which is contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 24 October 2007, the lack of free access to the public service when taking up the position of Judge and subsequently the office of Judge by the Judge-General and the appointment of such posts exclusively to graduates of the National Court and Public Prosecutor's Office supervised by the Minister of Justice, excluding persons meeting the statutory requirements [[♪ The bell ♪]] appointment to the magistrate's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u339	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the changes are aimed at subjugating the judicial school to the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, or one person, Mr Ziobra. With this bill, you can fill yours, and if they don't obey, fire them, just cancel them. The exams will be passed by the chosen ones. As many as seven of the nine persons on the examination boards will be appointed by the Minister of Justice. The National Judicial Council will assist in exercising control of the assesors, whose functioning will probably also be changed in a moment. 15 judges, who have so far been elected by international judicial authorities, now have the majority of the PiS, the majority of the PiS. Is it, therefore, justified by such a summary of this law that it will not strengthen the guarantee of the law of the court, but merely extend the powers of the minister? Is this bill being processed constitutionally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u341	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Currently, there are four ways of becoming a judge. One of them is the completion of the judicial application conducted by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Wouldn't it be better for the public interest than training at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office to encourage more lawyers and lawyers to move to the state of justice? This solution is not only 35 million zlotys of savings per year, but also complements the judicial staff with experienced lawyers already fulfilled in this market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u343	Thank you. And Mr Stefan Romecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a short but also important, very valid and very important question. Why were members of the Programme Board excluded from the General Bar Council and the National Chamber of Legal Counsels? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u345	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. I just don't know if I'm... Oh, I can fit 'cause it's two minutes. The first question concerns Article. 106i § 1: The judicial assistants shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice for an indefinite period of time. But I have a question about the question of appointment, namely that the ranking list after the exam is drawn up by the head of the national judicial school, determining the place on the list according to the number of points earned, and then each applicant who passed the exam has the right to indicate the place, that is, the court to which he wants him to be assigned to work as an assistant. Does the expression 'appointing the Minister of Justice' mean that the Minister is bound by this list, and does that mean that he will have to take into account all applicants who passed the exam, or will he be able to carry out his own evaluation? That's one thing. And the second point that raises my doubts is the article that talks about the loss of a position: the service relationship of the judicial assailant expires. And here's the box. 2 (2) 1, which refers to the possibility of objecting until the resolution of the National Courts Council is finalized. And if the objection is not accepted, then if the applicant [[♪ The bell ♪]] he doesn't get an asessor's position, it also loses the referee's position in this light, which means he's out of a job. Didn't you predict the risk that you'd take him out of his old job? Isn't this going too far? It seems that in this case it should remain the opportunity to return to the current position, because the applicant as if he would start his job, so not only will he lose his ability to be an asessor, he will be denied the opportunity to do his previous job as a referee. Thank you so much and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u347	Thank you, Member. And Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As you know, the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is located in Kraków. As we know, today the Krakow courts are a negative example for future judges, or at least this is the case with the appeal court, where not only the administration, but, as it turns out, the President of the court participated in the theft of many million zlotys. Is the Minister of Justice considering moving the national school to another city? Incidentally, it is worth considering whether we should maintain such a janczar school in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u349	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. I'll try to answer as best I can. Question of Mr Bańkowski from the Platform: Where are these positive opinions of the judge? Well, I heard these positive opinions of the judge's environment in person at a conference that was held at the seat of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Cracow when we were just discussing legislative purposes. I've had the privilege of attending. You were there, Marshal Dolnyak, as I recall, and many others. Of course, there were different voices, like that at the conference, like during the event, where we have the task of discussing something new, something controversial. But there were also judges who spoke positively about the proposed changes, quite negatively reciting the state to date, in particular the small number of applicants of the national school, who found recognition in the eyes of the National Judicial Council and became judges. So these are the positive opinions of the judge's community. These official opinions, which you spoke about, were indeed rather negative in terms of judicial associations or the National Courts Council. With regard to the question of the alleged contradiction with the constitution - it appears to arise in subsequent questions - it seems that the justification for this is so precise and detailed as to deal with this myth - because I have to call it a myth - the contradiction with the constitution of everything that is called the judicial assistant. Because if we were to accept it this way, this is how we interpret the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which Mr Myrch mentioned here, then we would ask the question: What about the previous draft adopted in the previous term by the majority of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? It is not that calling on time marked or calling someone an asessor automatically means that the institution is unconstitutional. It is necessary to read into the justification of this decision, and then it will actually turn out that there were other allegations, there was a question of the lack of criteria for the Minister of Justice when he was appointed as a judicial assessor. This law introduces clear criteria: exam, ranking list, appointment obligations. This law differentiates the establishment of a service relationship from the granting of a judicial vote: the first - the Minister of Justice, who has a de facto technical function here, contrary to what is said here today, and the National Council of the Court of Justice - as a body that upholds judicial independence, the independence of the courts. And this is the competent authority to entrust the vocals, so we have separated this issue. Therefore, in my view, it is a misunderstanding to accuse designers of non-compliance with the Constitution. Similarly, the charge of restricting access to public service is populist. It's not that restricting to some extent the entry into the judicial service, but not entirely, because assesura may be the best way, maybe it's the main way, but it's not the only way... We leave side roads from attorneys, prosecutors, solicitors, notaries, from all legal backgrounds, and, finally, from assistants to judges and referees. So it's present. Besides, if we're talking about art. 60 constitutions, we are talking about the fact that if we interpret this, we can say: recruitment to a national judicial school - if anyone wishes to go through the assesura and become a judge - is open, is reliable, competitive. The best will get there, the best will get through this difficult course of training, the best will take the test, they will become assessors, then they will become judges. Anyone may attempt to enter the walls of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, complete training and become a judge through assesura. He can try other ways too. We don't create the only way to get to the judge's office. The question asked by Mrs Navel from the Platform. Examination committees appointed by the Minister of Justice. It's a scandal, isn't it? And who set up the examination boards earlier? Who's setting up the examination boards today? Minister of Justice. Today's name is Zbigniew Ziobro, before his name was Cezary Grabarczyk, before his name was something else. Always the Boards of Examination at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office appointed the Minister of Justice. If that's what the club rep who ruled in the past and whose representative was just the Minister of Justice says, then in my opinion it's a little bit of a misunderstanding, because we're not changing anything here. Examination committees at the national school, not among any of the undefined persons, but of judges and prosecutors, people to whom I believe we can trust, were appointed by the Minister of Justice. Nothing changes here, honourable Member, High Izbo. [[Then answer the second question.]] Which question? [[The question is whether this bill is constitutional.]] I was just trying to say that about two basic charges, and we're about to... In my opinion, she's constitutional, she's constitutional in the government's opinion. It's very well written. And the fact that we may differ in our assessments is another thing, and the final review will be the Constitutional Tribunal if someone lodges a complaint. That's it, period. Mr Masłowski's question concerned the transition from other posts to the judicial service. That's what I've been talking about. After all, there is the possibility of moving from the bar, there is the possibility of moving from legal counsels to notaries. We're leaving it. So I think I've already answered here. Mr Romecki's question: Why do we exclude representatives of the solicitor's community or counsel from the programme board according to this project? Because there's no reciprocity here. Are there any representatives of the judicial or prosecutorial community in such bodies operating at the Supreme Bar Council or the National Council of Legal Counsels? There isn't. Why? Because they're different services, different professions, separate deontology, performing different public functions, so let's not mix up different orders. If it's going to be like this, it's going between, it's going both ways, not one way. Representatives of attorneys or legal counsels will be at the national school, but on the national school's program board... Representatives of the judge's or prosecutor's community - they're not gonna be there, are they? So I think this is where we keep the proper symmetry. Your Marshal, Mrs Dolniak, thank you very much for these questions, because they are concrete, substantive and may help to improve this project, because nothing is perfect, it can always be tried to improve. The first doubt in my opinion is apparent doubt. The Minister of Justice... That's because it's justified. Perhaps the legislative amendment should be further improved so as not to raise such doubts as you mention. Is this ranking list drawn up at the national school binding on the Minister? Yes, the minister has it here. only technical function, i.e. There's a list, there's a ranking, the best applicants choose first, the worse ones choose the courts in the country later. So it's not like you say repeatedly that the Minister of Justice will decide everything because he will decide whether or not someone will become an assistant will decide whether he will be here or there. It won't be, because this is where the bill will be decided, the result of the exam, and the will of the examiner himself. That's the first question. Second: If the applicant does not obtain a vote given by the National Judicial Council, will this decision continue? It can be left with nothing, for example. He won't be able to go back to refereeing. Once again, I promise to analyze this bill. If there's a threat, we'll check it out. It is not our intention to bring about such a situation. We will correct this bill if there is indeed such a threat. This is a very specific question, I need to consult with my colleagues here. Mr Dziuby's question. The National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office is located in Krakow and will be located in Krakow. These two very important institutions, such as the appeal court or the other courts of Cracow and the national school, are indeed bordering on each other, are in the immediate vicinity, but this is a geographical boundary for happiness. These pathologies, which appeared in Krakow's judiciary, do not in any way touch the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and I hope that this will happen, nothing will spill. And when it comes to relocation, I say we're not going to move. This is a well-established place, with good infrastructure, etc. But, of course, there's been a certain expectation for years. Krakow is where it is, in the south of Poland. This can be seen from an interest in where the applicants are from, how many of them are from the south, and how many are from the north. From the north there are generally few applicants, because Poland is a big country. Therefore, we are working to expand the base available to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are quite advanced when it comes to creating a Warsaw center. However, Warsaw is in the centre, it is closer to everyone and we will act in this direction so that it is easier to access the national school and not only in Krakow, which is geographically not available to some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u351	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 9 and 10 of the agenda: 9. First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws (print No 1423). 10. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws (print No 1435). I ask the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill in print 1423. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Justice every other Pole is misjudged. As far as the number of judges is concerned, we can boast almost the largest number in the European Union, 26 judges per 100,000. residents. As far as the issue of the length of legal proceedings is concerned, we are in an ungrateful fourth place since the end of the European Union, only as regards consumer claims cases. The situation has not improved much in recent years, although the number of assistants in courts has increased by 100% since 2006. No one other than Minister Zbigniew Ziobro was the one who made the greatest effort on the justice system in the last few years, and unfortunately neither the level of services provided nor the satisfaction of society, the satisfaction of society with the justice system have followed. And paradoxically, it is those courts whose circulation in the form of a cast of assistant positions was the largest, they work the slowest. As far as spending on justice is concerned, we are also at the forefront. This is the fifth place among the countries of the Council of Europe in terms of spending per capita on justice in terms of GDP per capita. Including small Macedonian countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the first place. So, in terms of services we are at one of the last places, and in terms of the issue of justice expenditure - at the forefront, similarly with regard to the issue of chronicity, the inefficiencies of these proceedings. On the issue of disciplinary proceedings, disciplinary proceedings are a measure of satisfaction, a sense of public satisfaction with justice. The concept of justice in courts is, of course, difficult to measure, but this can also be verified by statistics on disciplinary proceedings. Last year, 50 of these proceedings were opened. About 70 proceedings are running, of which 41% shall end with remission, acquittal or withdrawal. If these complaints, of which there are thousands, reach this fundamental stage of disciplinary action, they usually end with one of these three judgments, i.e. remission, acquittal or absolution. Until recently, until August last year, we had the privilege of withdrawing the penalty procedure if the case had not been resolved within 3 years. This led to the fact that citizens, even though they had obtained a satisfactory decision before the European Court of Human Rights and the Strasbourg Court found that the Convention had been infringed by the Polish court, were not able to enforce the damage caused by it from a specific judge. So that this situation must change. Both opposition representatives, opposition representatives... The latest survey shows that a huge number of voters from the Civic and Modern Platform also demand a change in the area of justice. So that expectation is common. As regards the draft law, this proposal concerns the National Judicial Council, which is not a court which is not a tribunal, which is not a judicial authority, is a central constitutional body of a mixed nature which affects the appointment of judges, taking part in the procedure for appointing judges. It is an organ which in the constitution has been given an extremely cheap term, so that it is He called, namely, the constitutional legislature gave the ordinary legislature the issues concerning not only the mode of work, how to appoint the members of the National Judicial Council, but also the system or finally the scope of the action, i.e. four elements: the scope, the system, the method of appointment of members and the mode of work, to be defined by the ordinary legislature. In view of the above, the legislator has stated that it is necessary to move away from the corporate model of appointing judges, which is inefficient, at the moment. There is a departure from the model in which the judges refer themselves to the National Council of Courts, decide on their promotion, they decide on their own assessment, because it is highly inefficient. It has led to a situation in which we are dealing with a model where the judge himself is not responsible for the actions of the judiciary, where there is no clear distribution of powers and responsibilities. This model is highly inefficient, and in every respect, both from the point of view of disciplinary proceedings, transparency, transparency, objectivity of justice and inefficiencies in the context of proceedings, the chronicity of these cases. Therefore, both the appointment of the members of the National Judicial Board and the mode of work and the scope of action must be changed. How? There's only one way to ensure that we move away from the corporationry of a judge. In democracy no better model has been found than social control over the appointment of judges, the appointment of members to the National Judicial Council. We don't go as far as that. in the German model. Last week I had the pleasure of visiting Bavaria, where the Minister of Justice decides directly to appoint a judge, i.e. the executive authority directly appoints judges. We're just proposing an intermediate model. Elections to the National Judicial Council for elected members of judges will be held by Parliament. This model will ensure that representatives of society with a democratic mandate will have an impact on the appointment of these members. As regards mode of work, we propose two meetings in the name of the principle of control and balance of the three authorities referred to in Article. 10. So, significantly, the judge, who today, let's face it, unfortunately, is in the current model, is changing to democracy. It is precisely the control and balance of the three authorities that we aim for by introducing two assemblies, leading to the situation that the voice of the representatives of society with a democratic mandate will not be a fig leaf, as so far it has been the case that the judges who were elected from among the judges had a powerful decisive influence on the decisions taken by that authority. As regards the third issue, the expiry of the mandate, this is also where the constitutional legislature left it to the ordinary legislature. I would like to remind you that in 2001 we had seven cases of expiry of the mandate in accordance with the KRS Act of 2001. In 2011, the ordinary legislature introduced six such conditions. In its judgment K 25/07, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the expiry of the mandate was admissible for material reasons. The reasons that we are introducing at the moment are, firstly, the fact that the issue of changing the organisation and way of work and the choice of members of the KRS requires a decisive change in terms of terms of terms. It is a term of office, which has so far been individual, since the position of the 2002 National Court of Justice, which was taken, and let's face it, in violation of constitutional principles, because the National Court of Justice had no right to correct by means of its Constitutional Resolution, and so it happened in 2002, introduced individual terms, when only members of the Constitutional Court, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, had individual terms. So that we eliminate these terms of office, we eliminate the state of non-compliance with the Constitution in this respect, and it is necessary for this to expire the mandate. Finally, the curian elections, which were also questioned, by the position of the general assembly judges themselves. A few years ago, the General Assembly adopted a resolution indicating that the rules governing the election to the National Council of Judicial Affairs on the basis of curia, i.e. non-democratic, i.e. non-universal, indirect, violate the Constitution. Thus, those who are currently sitting on the National Judicial Council sit there in a way that violates the Constitution. It is therefore necessary to introduce a further condition for the expiry of the mandate. The term of office is not an absolute principle because of the fact that in Article. 187 of the Constitution clearly states that in terms of mode of work, and precisely in the mode of work, there is a constitutionality issue, which is clear from the opinions ordered by the Office for Sejm Analysis, the term of office is the definition of the mode of work, and this can be defined by the ordinary legislature. If this were not the case, the six current conditions for the termination of the mandate would have to be considered unconstitutional, and it is not. It would have to be considered that the introduction of new rules for exclusivity of the mandate in the past, in the form of a ban on the appointment of a member of the National Court Register, at the same time as the President of the Tribunal, was incompatible with the Constitution, and that was not the case. Therefore, in this case, it is necessary to state that the mandates of the current members of the KRS are extinguished, for the reasons of the system, which I mentioned earlier. These changes will ensure transparent and democratic, direct and universal rules of choice for the National Judicial Council. Any kind of thesis on the politicisation of the members of the KRS is unfounded, as - let's not forget - elections will be made from among the judges themselves. These judges today are independent and independent, and they will not be removed in accordance with the article. 14th National Judicial Council Act. Paradoxically, today we are dealing with pure politics. The choices I mentioned are nothing but pure politics. There are letters of support, there are committees of support. All you have to do is look at the judge's forums. Paradoxically, it is today that the President of the Court may do more harm to the judge concerned, who is insincere, as proven by practice, by various types of guidelines at the stage of the electoral procedure and by other types of mechanisms used instrumentally, than he will be able to do so to the elected member of the National Judicial Council of any parliamentarian. It's a myth. The independence of judges will be guaranteed in a much stronger way than it is today. The judges are independent - and will be independent - but they are not independent of the state, they are not independent of the nation, from the Republic, because according to the article. 4 society, the nation exercises power directly or indirectly, there is no third possibility. Therefore, in the name of balancing and control of the authorities, in the name of the sovereignty of the nation, in the name of the sovereignty of the nation and finally in the name of the principle that judges rule on behalf of the Republic of Poland, these changes are necessary. Judges do not rule on behalf of their colleagues - they rule on behalf of the State, on behalf of society, on behalf of all citizens, and citizens should have an influence, even minimally, on who and how they become judges. They don't have that today. These changes are therefore necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u353	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to provide the reasons for the bill in print 1435. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Group of Members of the Poselski Club, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club and the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club a draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and some other laws contained in print No 1435. This project was prepared by the Association of Polish Judges Iustitia and is proof that the wrong thesis has been promoted very often recently by representatives of the government, by representatives of the parliamentary majority, that the community of judges does not want to change, that it is some caste that defends itself against changes which defends its status quo. The Minister even used the term "Judge'. I think, Minister, that even if we were to assume that we are dealing with this phenomenon, as you have called it, the judge, you want to replace this judge with a pisocracy, and there should be absolutely no agreement in this House either. I would like to begin by thanking this largest association, which has gathered almost a third of the judges in Poland in its ranks - mainly regional judges, those courts closest to Poles and Poles - for preparing this project. The project responds to a government project aimed at depriving the independence of the National Judicial Council. Unlike him, he follows the demands of the judicial community, the ombudsman and many other institutions, as well as associations that ensure compliance with the standards of the democratic rule of law. This is a pro-Citizen project, not a political one; a project that guarantees pluralism in the National Judicial Council and ensures that the National Judicial Council is actually shaped democratically. It will also give citizens the right to an impartial, politically independent justice system. Both government and citizens today are talking about the need for changes in the judicial system. We understand that need. However, the alternative to this system cannot be to subject the entire justice system to one man: the Minister of Justice and, at the same time, the Prosecutor-General. This is, High Izbo, the theme of the project that I have the honour of presenting today to the High House. The National Judicial Council is a specific constitutional body upholding the independence of the courts and independence of judges, having also the right to apply to the Constitutional Court for a proposal to comply with the Constitution of acts in so far as they concern the independence of the courts and independence of judges, and presenting applications to the President of the Republic of Poland for appointment to serve as a judge. The draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts comprehensively regulates the procedure for the selection of members to the National Courts by Supreme Court judges, general courts judges, Supreme Administrative Court judges, administrative courts judges and military courts judges. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 provides for the term of office of the elected members of the National Judicial Board. The elected members are 21 members, including 15 judges, four Members and two Senators - Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 points 2 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The proposed amendment re-establishes the number of members of the board elected by the judges of the various courts. It's an art, actually. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides for 15 judges elected by judges from among the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. The aim of the proposed amendment is to implement the principles of judicial self-government by introducing a new, fully democratic model for the election of judges' representatives to the constitutional body upholding the independence of courts and the independence of judges. The aim of the proposed amendment is also to increase the transparency of the choices made and, as important and also very often requested by social organisations, the participation of the public, including professional authorities, thereby increasing confidence in the Council as a guarantee of the independence of courts from the influence of politicians. Increasing transparency and public participation in the election of members of the Council will be implemented by, first, extending the circle of bodies entitled to submit candidates for members of the Board, that is the new wording of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8,10, secondly, mandatory public hearing of candidates with the possibility of citizens asking questions at least one week before the elections and - what is important - broadcast via the Internet. The extension of the group of entities entitled to submit candidates for members of the Board assumes that not only judges but also a group of at least 2 000 will be able to submit applications. citizens entitled to be elected to the Sejm, as well as the Ombudsman, the General Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the National Council of Prosecutors at the Attorney General, and the Council of the Public University Law Faculty. Such a specific catalogue of bodies entitled to submit candidates will provide the new National Judicial Council with democracy and pluralism. The mandatory public hearing and the possibility of asking questions to candidates for members of the Board refer to the informal civil institution for monitoring candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Prosecutor General. It is appropriate to formalise this institution so that the public can get to know all the candidates and confront them with the outcome of the elections. First of all, it should be stressed that a mandatory public hearing will contribute to the transparency of the election of the members of the National Courts Council. The project also envisages a change in the way elections are conducted. The selection of judges to the Council will be carried out by judges from among the candidates submitted by the eligible actors in democratic and direct elections preceded by a public hearing. The choice of judges to the National Judicial Council should be made by judges, as this is a European standard. The opinion of the Executive Board of the European Judicial Council Network on draft laws presented by the Polish Government, dated 30 January 2017, should be recalled here. It stresses that the European Network of Judicial Councils has clear standards in this respect, which state that the mechanism for appointing the members of the Board elected from among judges must be such a mechanism as to exclude interference by the executive or legislative authority. The European Judicial Council Network also stresses that the mechanism for appointing the members of the board elected from among judges must exclude interference by the executive or legislative authority and that the choice of judges should only be made by other judges on the basis of a broad representation of the relevant sectors of judicial authority. High Izbo! The project therefore implements the European standard for the selection of similar bodies in the judicial system. It is the judges themselves who determine the composition of the KRS counterparts in other countries. This is the norm in a civilized world, not the choice of members of judicial councils by politicians. The proposed law envisages the introduction of parities for the number of seats filled by judges of individual courts, so that judges of each level of the judiciary elect members of the Council in full democratic and direct elections. According to the proposed new wording of the article. 11 the Council will be elected: one Supreme Court judge among the judges of the Supreme Court, two judges of the Supreme Court, one Supreme Administrative Court judge among the judges of that court, one regional administrative court judge among the judges of those courts, so far the assembly of regional administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court elected two members of the Board, one military court judge elected from among the judges of those courts, i.e. eight general court judges elected by regional courts, two general court judges elected by district courts, one general court judge elected by judges of appeal. These parities shall take account of the representation in the Board of Judges of each type of court and their size shall be based on the number of judges in the courts concerned, assuming that each type of court should have at least one representative in the Council. These are: one Supreme Court judge for about 79 judges, one Supreme Administrative Court judge for about 109 Supreme Administrative Court judges, one Provincial Administrative Court judge for about 530 regional administrative courts judges, one military court judge for about 58 military judges, eight judges elected by about 7,000. regional court judges out of about 10,000. general court judges, two judges elected by around 2600 district courts out of about 10 000. General court judges, one judge elected by ca. 512 judges of appeal courts out of ca. 10 000. general court judges. Designed art. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The President of the courts competent to hold elections and the appointment of electoral committees shall be designated. It is assumed that there will be no need to create electoral districts within the courts of different types and that elections will be made on one national list. This solution guarantees representation in the National Courts of Justice for all categories of judges and ensures pluralism of the opinions of the members of the National Courts Council. The draft also provides for the establishment of a five-member electoral commission, its chairman and the appointment of an election date. The obligation imposed by the law shall be exercised in person by the President of the competent court by means of an order, the first President of the Supreme Court in respect of ordinary courts. The President shall also be responsible for preparing and handing out the ballot cards as laid down by the Minister of Justice's Regulation to the Presidents of the courts in which the elections will take place. Focusing these powers in the hands of one person will ensure efficient and swift decision-making in the course of the elections. The proposed new wording of the rules shall be governed in a comprehensive manner by the electoral mechanism which shall select the members of the National Judicial Council referred to in Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. Point 5 of the draft assumes that voting in elections will be secret and direct. The project assumes that the election will be won by the candidate with the highest number of votes and, in the event of an equal number of votes, by a senior judge. The proposed solution is intended to prevent costly re-election process, assuming that equal numbers of votes are unlikely due to the number of voters. In the election, there will be as many candidates as there are cast. The vote will take place at the courts' offices, which will ensure their undistorted work. The judge's statutory duty will be to take part in the election. The President of the court at whose seat the vote will take place will ensure its proper conduct, that is, he will draw up a list of the judges voting in the elections, issue the ballot cards, allow the vote to be kept confidential and will pass after the election the votes cast, the unused ballots and the voting lists of the judges. The electoral commission appointed by the President of the competent court shall, within three days of the votes cast, draw up a electoral protocol showing the number of votes cast for each candidate and the number of votes void. The election committee will also be responsible, in accordance with the proposed provision, for public announcement of the results of the elections by means of a notice published on the website of the competent court. Designed art. 13a of the Act introduces a wide-ranging electoral control mechanism to which every judge will be entitled. The election control by the Supreme Court, including the competence to make a decision to repeat the elections, will provide sufficient safeguards for the regularity of the elections. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 4 of the proposed law introduces the necessary amendments to the Law of 23 November 2002 on the Supreme Court, the Law of 25 July 2002. The Law on the System of Administrative Courts and the Law of 21 August 1997. The Law on the System of Military Courts in connection with the comprehensive regulation of the procedure for the selection of members of the National Courts Board in the provisions of this Act. The repealed provisions relate to the regulation of the election of the members of the National Judicial Council by the judges of those courts in this draft law. The term of office of the elected members of the Board shall be governed by the provision of the Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Constitutions. Regulation of the Council's system as well as the scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Council and the choice of its members are entrusted to the ordinary legislature, Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Four constitutions. Changing the electoral procedure must not justify shortening the term of office of the members of the Board. In keeping with the constitutional values indicated above, the draft law provides for the gradual replacement of the members of the Council by new members selected under the new rules. It is therefore foreseen that, in the event of the release of a position in the Council by one Supreme Court Judge and any Judge of the Court of Appeal - now two - first two members of the Board elected by the judges of the District Courts and then one member elected by the Judges of the Appeals Court shall be elected to replace them; the second seat previously cast by the Supreme Court Judge shall be cast in the elections of the Supreme Court Judges, Article. The 5th Amendment Act. If a Judge of the Administrative Court or the Supreme Administrative Court is dismissed in the Council - now two members of the Board - first a member of the Board elected by the Provincial Judges of the Administrative Courts shall be elected in their place and the next member elected by the Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be elected. The election of a member of the Council elected by the Judges of the District Courts or regional Courts - i.e. a total of eight members of the Board - shall be decided on by a member of the Board elected by the Judges of the Regional Courts. The 7th Amendment Act. The seat in the Council by a judge of the military court will be filled by the judges of those courts and there is a unnecessary transitional provision. Art. 6 establishes a relatively short period of vacathio legis so that elections can be made on new terms at the end of the term of office of the majority of the judges of the board on March 2018. High Izbo! The project of the Iustitia Association is a response to attempts to politicise the judiciary in Poland: to submit candidates to the National Judicial Council by a wide range of independent entities, to enable the submission of candidates to a group of 2 000. citizens, selection of candidates without participation of politicians, compulsory public hearing, ensuring a proportionate representation of all categories of judges, a one-room council and a gradual evolutionary exchange of the composition of the National Judicial Council instead of a violent and thorough one. All these solutions show how we should take care of public institutions in Poland. We should provide them with self-government, clear procedures, transparency of action and pluralism of opinion, and above all a certain degree of stability and independence from changes on the political firmament. This is the country we want, not ruled on a wall-to-wall basis, where literally every institution is cleaned after the election and becomes political loot. As an applicant for the High House, we call on Members of Parliament - including those who are smiling here, but I hope, kindly at the moment - to lean on this project with understanding, to give a chance to a politician-independent judiciary and non-distortion, not to interfere in the holy democratic rule of law, a threefold division of authorities. Otherwise, the protection of civil rights and freedoms will be affected, there will be the possibility of political influence on judgments handed down on behalf of the Republic of Poland. Poland's opinion will continue to suffer and its position as a democratic legal state will be compromised. We very often repeat that the judiciary in Poland requires improvement, it requires changes, but, how often you can hear from Poles and Poles, changes towards improving its functioning, bringing the justice system closer, especially in the space of local Poland, citizens, as well as greater social control over the functioning of the justice system. This project is taking the first, fundamental step towards these expectations. The Minister said that every other Pole misjudges the functioning of the justice system. But even less, Minister, Poles trust politicians. He trusts politicians much less. I think it should be such a punch line and reflection on the proceding and further fate of both projects, the one presented by me, as well as the one presented by the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u355	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed to hear that politicians have such low self-esteem as they disgust themselves with the words "political," "political." If that's the case, they should stop playing that role. I'd like it to go back to the proper meaning of the word. Politics is a prudent concern for the common good. It is not to be ashamed of, unless it is used interchangeably and partitioning is called politics, and these are two different things. I've never heard as much about unconstitutionality as I have over the last year. I have the impression that when there are no arguments, there is a statement that this is an unconstitutional solution. After all, citizens may not be fully aware of how the constitution is written, it is enough to say: undemocratic, unconstitutional, they are probably right if they say so. For this reason, I will start my speech in a rather unusual way. So I'm not gonna wave my constitution as a copy, but I'm gonna quote specific constitutional provisions so that citizens can see what the constitutional record is about the National Judicial Council. Thus: The National Judicial Council consists, first, of the first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the person appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. There is no question of how these people are chosen, because these people enter from the public office. Point 2 states that the Council shall be composed of 15 members chosen from among the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. There is no way in this provision how this choice is to be made. It says here that of the judges. Point 3 of the quoted article: The Council consists of four members chosen by the Sejm from among the Members and two members elected by the Senate from among the senators. In this case, the constitutional legislature tells us who is part of it, so there are Members and Senators, and at the same time tells us who chooses them. And go on, lips. 4: The system - I stress this word'system', because it rarely happens in the Constitution - the system, the scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Council and the way in which its members are elected are defined by the law. In the Constitution there are clearly enshrined principles, i.e. the mandate for the ordinary legislature, for the Sejm, to determine the system of the National Council of Judicial Affairs. The system of the National Judicial Council, the scope of its operation, the mode of operation of the National Judicial Council and the way in which its members are elected are to be laid down by law. And now let's see who will be referred to in the way the members are selected to determine the bill. Since this is clearly stated in the Constitution in point 1 with regard to the Presidents, point 3 with regard to Members and Senators is clearly stated, it is clear that paragraph 3. 4 Saying that the law will determine how its members are to be elected, it refers to point 2 because at this point, that the Council consists of 15 members chosen from among the judges, there is no question of how they should be chosen and that is why it is clarified in the paragraph. 4. Dear Member State, this Parliament has the right to determine who and how the judges will choose the members of the National Judicial Council. So much for art. 187, because there is one more basically important provision that refers to the National Council of Courts, the one that talks about independence, independence, etc. That's... No, a very important recipe, but let's say he's clear. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And no one's questioning that. But there's one rule, very important, art. 179, which defines the powers of the National Judicial Council, and thus what belongs to its responsibilities. And art. 179 says: Judges are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland, at the request of the National Council of Courts, for an indeterminate time. And, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of competence is a court of law that is widely understood. I don't think there's anywhere in Europe. There's nowhere in Europe. Therefore, the European Judicial Council Network's selection recommendations must be combined with competences. Such powers as the National Council of Judicial Affairs have no other advice and at the same time no influence on the shape of the judicial council as judges have in Poland, nor do they have elsewhere. In order not to be literal, I'll quote. In Austria - because you are now looking for patterns in the East, look to the West, look to the West - judges are appointed at the request of the federal government, and you are so disgusted by executive power and politics. [[But who's reporting them to the government?]] They don't say that executives are interfering with the judiciary. The judges shall be appointed at the request of the Federal Government. [[Who's calling the candidates?]] I don't have time to quote that. [[But quote that.]] I'll mention other countries. In Germany, judges are appointed at the request of the Federal Government by the President of the Republic. In Spain, it's important... [[But that's what's important.]] ...in the Constitution: Justice comes from the people, judges are appointed at the request of the General Court and consist of the President of the Supreme Court in Spain and of 12 judges elected by both chambers of parliament, so Parliament chooses... [[Who's calling?]] ...and eight members from other legal professions chosen by both chambers of parliament. What you're saying is that there is no parliament, and it's important who gives Parliament... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But who is calling candidates?]] ...the parliament's gonna buy it? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is not. I don't have time for lectures. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Sign up for an education, that's where you'll find out what it's like. [[The judges report!]] In Sweden, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice is appointed at the request of the judicial council, and this council is again composed of five judges and two lawyers elected by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u357	I ask the Member to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u358	Dear Member States, and therefore, since in the Polish Constitution in Art. 4 It is said that the sovereignty of the nation is exercised by the state through such regulations as have been in force so far, that you have deprived the sovereign of any influence on the important power of the judicial authority. On the other hand, when it comes to legislative and executive power, the nation has an influence. It influences through elections and evaluates, so it chooses Parliament. Parliament, on the other hand, is the government for which Parliament is responsible. Of course, if the government does not respond to social expectations, the consequences are borne by Parliament, with individual Members. In Poland, the judges decide for themselves who will be the judge and decide who will choose the National Judicial Council. Because if 25 members of 15 members are elected by judges on the judicial board in Poland, it is obvious that parliamentarians in this council play a marginal role. Therefore, it is the will of the judge that counts. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to restore the constitutional order and democracy that you are so asking for, it is worth reading the Constitution. It is necessary to give the sovereign an influence on all authorities in the state, because it is the sovereign who supervises. It shall carry out supervisory supervision in accordance with Article. 4 over legislative, executive [[♪ The bell ♪]] and through it should also have an impact on the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would just like to say one more word to the parliamentary project. It is a good thing that the opposition saw the need for reform in the National Judicial Council, it is a pity that it has not been seen in eight years. That's the first thing. [[Don't lie to me.]] Secondly, this proposal for a good cause does not change anything, because the choice of members of the National Judicial Council from among judges still leaves them to the judges. We want to change this situation, therefore, because these two projects are incompatible, I bring on behalf of the club the rejection at first reading of the parliamentary bill. [[Applause]] [[It leaves three divisions of power.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u359	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, it is worth reading the constitution with understanding and overall understanding. Yeah, I'm gonna show you this constitution until it's done, because I think it's all written here, and you should read it 15 times a day with understanding. And if you don't understand, read the comments. It's all written there, too. It is important that you know the constitution not fragmentedly - not that you take one article that suits you - only read it from the beginning, the recital, to the very end, because it is the key to the constitution. And that's why this project is so bad that it violates the constitution and the principles of democracy in many places. And I'll tell you about it in a minute. Print No. 1423, which contains a law amending the law on the KRS, is a project to which a lot of opinions have been submitted. It is rare for the OSCE, the European Human Rights Ombudsman, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the judicial associations, BAS experts, the Legislative Bureau to have opinions on one project, of course there is also an opinion of the KRS. All negative. Except for one opinion from one external expert of BAS, which is positive, they are all negative. They all show you where there are errors in this project and how unacceptable it is. Why is it so unacceptable? Why shouldn't he be processed at all? That's because he's breaking a social contract. It violates this agreement, which was concluded, adopted here by the National Assembly and adopted by the nation. The nation voted for this constitution. Only twice did the nation speak on specific issues: on the Constitution and accession to the European Union. And you're throwing it away because it doesn't suit you because you want to introduce your country on your own terms, not counting the nation, not counting the sovereign, who said very clearly what he wanted, what he wrote in this constitution, and what he approved. Because please note that if the people have said something, it is written in the constitution, then a referendum must be announced to change the constitution, not to try to change the constitution. And you're trying to change the constitution by means of small laws, interpreting some laws and trying to interpret the rules, which is absolutely incompatible with the standards of the rule of law. What is a KRS - maybe it's worth thinking about it for a while. There are different views in doctrine. One of your favorite experts, Professor Bogusław Banaszak, says that he is the body of judicial authority. Very harsh thesis. But it is common belief that it is not a judicial authority, but it is a public authority which has three main constitutional tasks: it upholds the independence of the courts, upholds the independence of the judges and requests the appointment of judges, i.e. it has a creative function, which is crucial to the creation of human justice. And as the President ensures that the Constitution is respected, he upholds the security and sovereignty of the state, so the National Courts uphold the independence of the courts and independence of judges - two key wordings. He's on guard. And you want to say that it's not the KRS that's on guard, it's just that you, as the PiS, will be on guard. It's like foxes in a henhouse standing there. All the geese and chickens will be taken out. This must be protected from the state. And this is not an accidental formulation in the case of the KRS and in the case of the President. This is a very important consequence. In the justification for this project, you write that the nation must have an impact on the appointment of judges. Yeah, she must have, of course she does, and she does. You're just forgetting to read the article. 10, which says that power is divided into three specific authorities: legislative, executive and judicial. And the judicial one - in the article. 173 is clearly written - it is a separate authority from the other authorities. And you don't notice that. You only take art. Four, because you're more comfortable. The fact that the courts are separate and independent is to protect the KRS, which you want to majorize, you want to take over and have it under control. The Constitution does not provide for a division between the first and second assemblies. The Constitution makes it clear that there is one KRS. If the authorities wanted to divide the Constitution of the National Courts, they would divide it. It is true that the definition of the system, the organisation of the work to the bill, but it does not authorise the division of the KRS. These are two different things. If it had been written that there were two assemblies, it would have been written. What you're trying to do is a known procedure. You interpret the constitution by restricting it and breaking its rules. That's not the way to do it. The Constitutional Tribunal has spoken of this on several occasions. It also tells and reminds every authority: it is forbidden to deform public authorities and powers granted to them. And that's what you want to do in this project, you want to deform the National Judicial Council, because that's a limitation on the powers of judges. And you increase the powers of politicians. You're predicting a veto for politicians. It's unacceptable for a body to protect the independence of the courts to have politicians, and it doesn't matter what the option is. This should not be the case if it is to be the body that protects the independence of the judiciary. This division into two assemblies is absolutely breaking. He violates the principles of democracy, gives more power to politicians than judges, in fact eliminates the KRS as an independent body. Look at this way of calling, which you are proposing. The Constitution says that the Sejm appoints four people, not 4 + 15, or 19. You're always having trouble counting that. If the embodiment wanted to say that the Sejm is calling 15 judges and four Members, then he would have written it, and you are trying to interpret that if there is nothing written, then maybe there is more. Oh, no. There's as much as it's clearly written in the Constitution. You're overinterpreting the constitutional rights of the Sejm, you're expanding your competences. It's an outburst that shouldn't have a place in any way. You propose reporting by the Bureau or 50 Members and in Article. 11: The judges' associations will be able to recommend to the marshal, and the marshal himself has no right to submit candidates. So it's a complete procedure so you can show American or European experts that judicial associations can do something. They can't do anything. You want to make a fig leaf out of them so you can show that there's something they can do in the notification procedure. They won't be able to do anything. The Constitution guarantees seats for judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. Where do you guarantee that each of these groups, each group of judges will be represented in the KRS? It's not written in any way. And what happens if the bureau and a group of 50 Members do not report any representative of the administrative courts? Are you still gonna say it's constitutional? It is clearly said that the judges of each category must be members of the KRS, and you say that if they do not report them, they will not be. That is the convention of this provision. The Act does not provide for a guarantee of the variety of types of judges. This is an absolute mistake. It is worth saying two sentences about the expiry of the term of office of judges. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment K 25/07 made it clear that, if there is no possibility of appealing the members of the National Court of Justice, it simply does not exist. Legal terms of the article. The 10 you were talking about, the minister, for example. death, submission of office, appeal by the appointing authority. This is something completely different than the fact that the Sejm's terms of office have been revoked or that the judges' term has been deleted just because they don't suit you at all. If you want to change the courts, it's by law. The courts always act within the limits and under the law. Are you complaining about court-martial length or that there's too many cases? Then change the procedure, c.p.k., c.p.c., administrative law. Change. Why aren't you doing this? You're digging up the heads of the courts at the National Judicial Council. Because you want to cast the staff. Look at this. Make a law on forensics. Why don't you make a bill that will really speed things up in court? There are currently about 530 vacant jobs, i.e. approx. 5% Judge's office. In the case of 15 million cases that affect the judiciary every year, that means about 750,000. cases are not considered, because the judges are not filled. It's really a huge number. 750,000. cases could be dealt with more quickly if it weren't for the fact that the judges weren't reported. For that year, over 3 million cases were unfinished, precisely because you weren't filling the benches. The number of cases not dealt with in a given year increased by 31%. Plus, it's not that you want HR, it's that you want 530 judges. This project is an absolute project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS colonization of the judiciary and therefore we apply for rejection and strongly support the printing project 1435. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u361	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened to Mr Kropiwnicki's speech and he operated very nicely with the constitution, but you forgot one more article of the Constitution, about the article. 4, the sovereignty belongs to the nation... [[Divided into three authorities.]] ...and it is the nation in this situation that should elect the National Judicial Council. It is a pity that Law and Justice have not taken advantage of the fact that they have not decided to elect the National Judicial Council in direct elections. But it was also wrong that it went so far that the ordinary majority wanted to elect judges through the Sejm. Well, Mr Izbo and Mr Izbo, there is no provision that the Sejm cannot elect judges. It's just an invention, an idea, an interpretation, and it's about how we've got a broken constitution and that it needs to be changed. However, if we accept the second option, Minister, i.e. the election through representatives, i.e. through the Sejm, it cannot be done by a simple majority, but must be done by qualified majority, and at least 3/5 votes, because unfortunately, whether we like it or not, it will be taken in a clear and evident way, that one of the judges of one party will turn into judges of the other party. We're short, Minister... You're calling for an election in Spain. Well, when it comes to elections in Spain, yes, he chooses a seym, but they look a little different. There is a clear way to report candidates, there is a clear choice of candidates. Besides, you've chosen something that fits your own concept, and that's not the way. We also expected transparency as regards the choice of members of the National Judicial Council, i.e. the publication of their data, the deadline for citizens to submit opinions as well. Candidates to the National Judicial Council should be specified either on the Sejm's pages or on the National Judicial Council's pages. There should be an opportunity to submit opinions, etc., etc. Let me be clear - we do not agree with the OSCE's position that judges must be elected by judges, and let me quote that the OSCE's position that the judiciary is part of the legal constitutional system and that the fact itself gives formal legitimacy to self-chosenness is ridiculous to me personally. The mere fact that judicial authority is one of the authorities cannot give the judge the right to be unpunished and uncontrolled. Mr Kropiwnicki, if you say that the KRS is upholding the rule of law, I say that it stands for internships of lawlessness. [[Independence of the judge.]] If you take only that it's 5% judgments handed down in Poland - which I say very gently - illegally, with a gross violation of the law, that is 750,000. cases per year. 750,000. people are victims in Poland and this is important. [[But why the 5%?]] I'm saying, will we take 50%? , or 52% And how do you know the 2%? ? [[It's demagogy.]] I ask you to state to the OSCE that judges are accountable to the public, and that is only because there is an appeal process, that there are reasoned judgments and that they are held liable, is another fiction. They're never held accountable. Of course, these first two points are exhausted, but the justifications are written as you wish under sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: in 2010, together with twenty-six NGOs, we protested during the OSCE conference in Warsaw. I had the pleasure of meeting with the president personally and giving him information about what is happening in the Polish judiciary: with documents, with protocols, with case signatures, with names. It's been seven years, we haven't gotten an answer. On the other hand, when it comes to KRS, the answer comes immediately. The point is that the OSCE also looks objectively at certain things, and the very choice of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm is acceptable, although we will personally speak in favour of the direct choice of the entire National Judicial Council and the further part... Mr Tomasz Romankowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u363	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u364	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Referring to the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council, Parliamentary Printing No. 1423, as an introduction: in my opinion, we currently have a very good climate for a thorough reform of the justice system in Poland, because the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice is in favour, but also the opposition. I speak on behalf of my club, who went with the slogans of judicial reform for elections, but this is also said by the Civic Platform, Modern or Polish People's Party. Indeed, there is a unique climate, as the vast majority of the judicial community also raises the issue of a thorough reform of the justice system. On the other hand, the bill in question cannot be classified as a reform, because it is, in fact, an anti-reform. Critical remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a political choice, it is typically a party choice when it comes to the selection of 15 members of the National Judicial Council, judges. We make political choices every day without even being parliamentarians. Whether we buy Polish apples or foreign apples, it is also a political decision. Indeed, the word "politics" is a very noble and good word, and I am surprised by many people who disgust the word, even though they are involved in politics every day. But it is a party choice, because the parliamentary majority, today's Law and Justice, and in 2.5 years' time, it will be decided by 15 judges of the National Judicial Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the division into two chambers is a very strange solution, for example, because the constitution lists three categories of members of the National Judicial Council, and we divide this bill into two chambers. It's like we split the High House, just like we're sitting here, as many parliamentary clubs as there are in the Sejm. Each of these chambers, the clubs, will choose a Marshal of the Sejm, and the President will decide which bill he will sign and which he will not sign. The Constitution speaks of a collegial body, which is the National Judicial Council. The division into two chambers is justified only, although I do not accept this justification, the misunderstanding of the situation and the bad structure contained in the Constitution, because the Constitution does not establish a balance between the representatives of judges in the National Council of the Court and representatives of other constitutional bodies of the State and today we have 15 judges, let us call it, 10 virylists, representatives of other constitutional bodies of the State. There is a manifest imbalance, but this solution is no cure for this problem. The only solution is to change this, as we have rightly said recently, post-communist basic law of 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, the last element, in my opinion, is the weakest of the whole solution, i.e. the expiry of the term of office of the judges, members of the National Judicial Council. To me, the argument that was put forward by the Minister does not come to pass. Ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt this reasoning at the moment, then in a moment's time, after the next elections, another parliamentary majority will refer to this precedent, that the election of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal has been wrongly chosen and will choose the whole composition of the Constitutional Tribunal because of the faulty decisions which some years ago were taken by the Sejm of the 8th term of office. This solution is grossly incompatible with the Constitution. I return to this positive element, to reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, I address you. I'm sure in this courtroom, we're mostly in favour of limiting the cognition of the courts. We have over 15 million cases in court. The judge's corps is extensive, but these cases are really too much. The appointment of peace magistrates is one of the elements involved in the limitation of the cognition of courts and the excess of cases in courts. And the most important thing is the public's involvement in the administration of justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The institution of the juror we have today is an institution that is completely incompatible with the needs of the moment. Society also wants to participate in the administration of justice. Then trust in the justice system will not amount to 20%, but will be much greater, because society will be on the same footing as the judges deciding the judgments, the specific decisions of the trial. That is why we are in favour of starting a discussion about the appointment of jury in Polish courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u365	Thank you. And Mrs Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In a democratic legal state, the constitutional value defining the identity of the system is the independence of the courts and independence of the judges, and thus the independence of the National Judicial Council, which is of particular importance to guarantee the principle of division and balance of the authorities and the right to the court. Art. 173 of the Constitution clearly separates judicial authority from other authorities, assuming that it constitutes an independent whole. Thus, the principle of the division and balance of the authorities as set out in Article. The 10th Constitution should be understood with regard to the judicial authority in such a way that its separation and independence are duly respected. This means that the interference of the legislative and executive authorities in the sphere of influence of the judicial authority is only possible in the constitutionally acceptable scope. Art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 of the Constitution provides that the system, scope and mode of operation of the National Judicial Council and the way in which its members are elected shall be governed by the law. However, the legislator may not amend the provisions set out in Article. 187 Constitutions of the statutory functions of the Council in such a way that it strengthens the role of the out-of-court factor bypassing the Constitution. The Constitution's creators were aware of the existence of such risks and were therefore in favour of including many detailed rules on the composition of the Council in constitutional matters. The entry into force of the proposed amendment, which goes far beyond the constitutionally permitted regulatory freedom of the legislator, will have the effect of politicalising both the choice and the day-to-day functioning of the NRA. The degree of risk regarding the politicisation of the National Courts, i.e. the departure from the standards of the close judicial authorities, is in this case all the more serious because the term of office of the elected members of the National Courts will coincide with the term of office in the Sejm. The proposed change goes so far that it not only deprives the community of judges of the choice of their representatives to the National Courts of Justice, but in general the possibility of presenting candidates for members of the National Courts. Designed art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides that candidates for members of the National Court Register shall be presented to the Marshal of the Sejm Bureau or to a group of at least 50 Members. According to the draft law, only associations of judges may submit recommendations to the Marshal of the Sejm concerning the application of candidates for members of the Board. What if the candidate is applied on the last day and there's no time for an opinion? In the light of the Constitution, it is a choice made among judges by judges, not by the Sejm, the President or the Council of Ministers. The termination of the term of office of the elected members of the Board by law would mean a disproportionate interference of the legislator in a constitutionally shaped system for the election and functioning of the National Judicial Council. Shortening the term of office of elected members would also mean introducing a simple amendment to the Constitution without amending the Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Constitutions. In case the president doesn't like it, for example, because it's going to be another option, will the majority of the parliament of the ordinary law shorten its term of office? After all, what the PiS proposes can be applied to any body that has a specific term of office. Art. 187th Constitution excludes the division of the council into assemblies. There is no doubt in the doctrine that the mixed nature of the composition of the council does not mean its internal division into hens or teams. The KRS shall act as a single collegial body. All its members shall have the same position in its composition, and in particular the same voting rights. Since the division into two assemblies is not in accordance with the Constitution, this non-compliance cannot remove the proposed establishment of a kind of super assembly composed exclusively of judges and the sovereign to decide subject to unanimity, the dispute between the assemblies. The proposed law contains a solution which changes without prior amendment of the Constitution both the state position of the National Judicial Council and the state position of the President. The Constitution shall be laid down in Article. 179 that the President appoints judges at the request of the National Judicial Council, which does not mean making a choice. In the light of Art. 179 in the Constitution, the powers of the President are reduced by the appointment or refusal to appoint a judge in accordance with the proposal of the Council, and the powers of the Council are reduced by the formulation of a single request for appointment, not by a number of proposals. In carrying out the disposition contained in the proposal, the Council should at the same time present to the President a request for the appointment and failure to appoint the same person as a judge, because the position of the President is not known to the Council before the decision expressed in the proposal. The draft essentially weakens the Council's position, without a proposal that is currently impossible to become a judge. At the same time, it strengthens the role of the head of state in the appointing of judges, in breach of the balance between the judicial authority and the executive authority. The draft amendment to the position of the National Judicial Council is incompatible with the principle of ensuring the integrity and efficiency of public institutions, as expressed in the preamble to the Constitution. The adoption of the proposed law will change the relationship between the legislative authority and the judicial authority as defined in the Constitution, replacing the existing advantage of judges in the National Council of Judicial Affairs with a political factor, and may also contribute to strengthening the role of executive president. Thus, the Modern requests that the project be rejected at first reading. This project cannot simply be improved. On the other hand, we are in favour of a project developed by Iustitia, supported by modern clubs, Civic Platform and PSL. It proposes a wide group of entities entitled to apply, for example, for a group of 2 000, ladies and gentlemen. citizens, but also a mandatory public hearing or a requirement to announce a list of candidates at least one week before the elections. It shall also maintain the independence of the KRS from the executive and legislative authority. It provides a transparent procedure for the selection of judges to the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The power group simply wishes to keep the entire justice system and the whole judiciary. PiS first jumped to the police and the servants, then to the prosecutor's office, and now stubbornly the National Judicial Council. With this bill, PiS politicians are finishing the last section of the tape to deal with their own party interests using state institutions. While we are all aware of the need for reform of the courts, the proposals made by the PiS regarding the KRS have nothing to do with the improvement, but the stubborn justice system. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us Poles would rather live in a country where judges control the actions of PiS politicians than in a country where PiS politicians can control any police officer, any prosecutor and any judge. First of all, the draft act on the stubbornness of the National Courts of Justice directly violates the article. 10 constitutions guaranteeing a threefold division of power. The judges to the National Judicial Council are not to be elected by the judges themselves, but by the pisovian majority in parliament. Meanwhile, the Constitution clearly indicates how many members of the National Courts can be elected by Parliament. It is only four Members and two Senators, and after the adoption of the draft, Parliament will elect as many as 21 members to the National Courts. Either the Minister of Justice can't count on his fingers to four and two, or he's deliberately breaking the Polish constitution. But if someone really wants to reform and strengthen the judiciary, they can take advantage of the Justitia project. It guarantees the full independence of the KRS from politicians and government; it guarantees that all judges will have direct voting rights in the election of their representatives in the KRS. Why is the PiS afraid of this solution? High Izbo! Second example: end of the term of office of the current representatives of the National Courts of Justice. The Constitution is clear that this term of office is to last four years. This constitutional standard cannot simply be amended by law, just as the law cannot shorten the President's term of office. Again, the question is why PiS is afraid to take advantage of the solution proposed by Iustitia. It consists of the selection of members of the NCCs on new rules gradually as the current term of office expires. Polish judiciary as subordinate to one political party will soon simply cease to meet the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 she says simply: Everyone has the right to a fair and public examination of his case within a reasonable period of time by an independent and impartial court. In such a situation will the judgments handed down by the Polish courts be respected in European countries at all? High Izbo! PiS politicians are like democracy thieves. In turn, they have been shutting down further alarm systems that have been upholding the standards of the democratic rule of law for 1.5 years. They constantly limit the scope of civil liberties and freedoms. Some institutions, such as tribunals, paralyze; the other institutions, such as the National Courts, eliminate and re-invoke against the Constitution. I would like to stress once again: in every normal democratic country, courts control parties and politicians. In the PiS state, parties and politicians want to put their hands on the courts. But we will do whatever the law allows to make it difficult, and in the future we will do everything to restore the independence of the judiciary and punish the guilty of the attack on the courts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u369	Mr Krzysztof Paszik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! From the discussions and positions presented by the various parties of the Sejm, there is quite a clear division between the supporters on the one hand, I would say, something we call autonomy, independence of the courts, and on the other, the supporters of the judicial model quite strictly controlled by the executive authorities, by the parliament. Both projects are quite substantial They differ from each other in principle, but also in particular solutions. At a place where a project prepared by the Association of Iustitia proposes that citizens submit candidates to the KRS, the government project, as already indicated by the previous speakers, provides for notification by the Bureau of the Sejm or by a group of at least 50 Members through the Marshal of the Sejm. One of his colleagues rightly called it not politicisation, but stubbornness. I think that's a very, very appropriate term. At this point. there is a completely different approach between the authors of both projects to the independence of the National Courts Council. According to the Minister of Justice, this should be another committee consulting all decisions with political bodies. There is no concern at all for pluralism, which is the basic assumption of the parliamentary project. However, what is most obvious after the compilation of both projects is how to choose the members of the National Courts. The citizens' project involves choosing them by the judges in a vote on one national list. On the other hand, the government is pushing the Sejm to vote by a simple majority. And here is the question that was asked by a colleague of Mr Jachnik: Why by a simple majority? If this majority were qualified, then we could talk about something that would go away from this party character. We know exactly what the consequences will be, because we see today what institutions are like, whose members are elected by the Sejm, where one political formation dominates. Another issue that differs between the two projects is the transparency of the selection procedure. The citizens' project rightly assumes that prior to the appointment of such an important position as membership of the National Judicial Council, public hearing is an essential expression of care for transparency of public life, and a completely absent thread in the discussion. The authors of the government project nor did they seem to be concerned about it, there is no proposal that would raise this transparency, but at the same time you talk a lot about this transparency, for example in the announced changes in the electoral ordination. It's where transparency and transparency are needed, and it's like they're out of the question. The draft in question does not in any way determine, and is a very important matter, how many judges, of whom the levels and types of courts are to sit in the National Courts Council. It seems to be a fundamental thing. There is therefore no obstacle to this being, for example, in the case of a government project. 15 regional court judges or 15 military court judges. I apologize for these extremes, but they show that the shape and model of this national council may not fully reflect the Polish judiciary. You might want to think about that, too. The draft also introduces the division of the National Courts into two assemblies. Just as the previous speakers have shown it, it has nothing to do with constitutional regulations. I look towards Mr Piotrowicz because he spoke a lot about these constitutional aspects, but this was not the case, Mr Piotrowski, and it is difficult to place this within the Constitution. The recently promoted slogan about the post-communist constitution may actually relieve some representatives of the parliament's majority from being sensitive, and it should not be so. Finally, the difference illustrates how PiS politicians are in a hurry to take over the KRS. The government project envisages the expiry of the term of office of all 15 judges sitting in the National Courts for the election of judges, so it is a typical leap to the institution. I would be grateful to the Minister if, however, this aspect of the change also took a bit into account in his speech. However, a completely different approach is presented by the parliamentary project. Here we have great concern, however, to maintain a certain continuity of this or, whether it is said wrongly or not, of the institution, of the constitutional body which should function in the interests of its proper functioning, but in a certain continuity. Many of these differences and shortcomings have been shown. On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I also request that the government project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Jack Protasiewicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During this debate, even when the agenda was established in the morning, there were many detailed arguments why the proposed government law on the National Council of Courts fundamentally changes this fundamental principle of democratic system, which we have enjoyed in the Republic of Poland for more than 28 years. This principle, which safeguards the true independence of the judicial authority from the executive and legislative authority. Indeed, it is just as one of my previous speakers said that we are dealing with a lot of opinions, expertise that came to us, to parliamentarians from both individual experts, professors of law, recognized, I would say, authorities in the field of legislation in Poland. We have opinions that have been addressed to us by the Ombudsman, by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, judicial organizations and associations. The vast majority of them, which is also without doubt, are very critical and even negative about the proposed solutions. Even the law-making advisers employed by the parliament in which we sit, and therefore, in a sense, under the Marshal of the Sejm, in their opinion state that the project raises serious constitutional doubts. So why would you say that this project, which raises such widespread doubts about the compatibility with the constitution, should proceed? Of course you can tell Poles, and anyway you do it, that this is the result of defending environmental interests by the judges' environments. The Minister even recommended using the phrase "Judges'. You can cheat - yes, I use this phrase consciously - that it is also a defence of the specific interests of the post-communist system. Yes, I am saying that this is cheating because to critics of this solution, i.e. members of this post-communist arrangement, you would also have to include such people as Prof. Adam Strzembosz or Prof. Zoll. Let me just remind you that Prof. Strzembosz was the head of the Solidarity or the leader of the Solidarity at the Ministry of Justice in 1980 and 1981, a lecturer at the Catholic University. It's really not easy to include him in the post-communist system. You can manipulate, as Mr Piotrowicz did, not for the first time in this House, referring to European examples in response to questions, even from this Chamber, who proposes candidates to the Austrian Government or the Dutch Government, so as not to mention that these proposals come from a committee made mostly of judges or from bodies in which judges have a decisive vote. On this basis, it is only the Minister of the President or the Queen, as in the Netherlands, who makes personal proposals for appointment to the judicial office. But we are actually dealing with two very important voices, two international organisations. This is not the European Union, which you are also fighting, but the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe, to be precise, the committee, the Commissioner for Human Rights appointed by the Council of Europe. These are two organizations - one association of 47 countries, the other association of 57 countries - which do not interfere with Polish internal affairs, do not wage war against the Polish government, but evaluate the rule of law in each of these countries, including compliance with this threefold division of power and guarantees of civil liberties. In both cases, there are negative opinions. There's only one thing I want to say here. For the first time, I have dealt with the opinion just formulated by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who concludes his opinion with a recommendation to waive the measures aimed at adopting the bill. And the representative... he was the OSCE representative. On the other hand, the representative of the Council of Europe says this: I strongly encourage the Polish Parliament to reject the proposed amendments. So I wanted to tell you that today you are not only breaking the constitution within the meaning of experts and some of the parliamentarians, you are really going against the views of international organisations called to [[♪ The bell ♪]] upholding the law and de facto bringing Poland out of European organizations. It is also another step towards the exit of Poland from the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u373	Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and certain other laws and on the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and on certain other laws. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the Government's draft law covers the rules governing the selection of members of the National Judicial Council from among judges, introduces new rules for the National Judicial Council to assess candidates for judicial and judicial positions and provides for the creation of new bodies of the National Judicial Council for this purpose. In fact, the parliamentary bill drawn up by the Association of Judges Iustitia focuses solely on the procedure for the selection of judges to the National Courts of Justice. At this point, it is worth noting, regardless of the views expressed on the functioning of the judiciary, that the complicated procedure for the selection of judges to the National Judicial Council, which is not of the nature of direct elections, which makes it impossible, in fact, to represent the most numerous group of judges of the regional courts in the Council, to change without delay. The difference is what this change is supposed to look like. The government project provides for the selection of candidates for board members by the Sejm of the Republic. Candidates would be presented to the High House by the marshal on the basis of reports made by the Sejm Bureau or by a group of at least 50 Members. This solution seems incompatible with the current wording of the Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland relating to the composition of the National Courts of Justice. Point 3 of that provision gives the Sejm a clear competence to elect four members of the National Judicial Council from among Members, similar to the selection of 15 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and 16 members of the Court of State. Such a provision is not explicitly provided for in point 2 concerning the election of 15 members elected from the Supreme Court judges, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts to the National Judicial Board. This choice should be made by the judges in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 18 July 2007. K 25/07, namely point 4 of the statement of reasons: Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (2) of the Constitution establishes the principle of the election of judges to the National Judicial Council. This provision provides that judges may be members of the National Council of Courts without indicating any additional features which would condition membership of the Board. The selection shall be made from among the four listed in Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (2) of the Constitution of the groups of judges. There is no possibility of their cancellation, indicating their four-year term. Nor has the legislator introduced a restriction so that either of the judges could not be elected or could not be elected to the National Judicial Council. In this context, the wording of the article is therefore debatable. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the government project submitted, which shall expire the term of office of the current members of the National Judicial Council. The Free and Solidarnia Circle states that the selection of members of the National Judicial Council from among judges should be made by all judges in direct, democratic elections, in which each judge can take part. In the election of 15 judges of the members of the National Judicial Council, each judge should have an active and passive electoral right, with a parity of representation of the general courts, administrative and military courts and the Supreme Court. The rules of choice should allow for the selection of more than the current number of judges of regional courts, which are the most important in the judicial community. Therefore, they should be properly represented in the Council. At the same time, we consider that it is in line with the law that the basic arrangements allow for balancing the votes of members of judges with the votes of members from bodies from the general election, i.e. representatives of the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic. On the other hand, with regard to the project submitted by representatives of the PO, Modern and PSL, we believe that it regulates the issues necessary to amend too narrowly. Unlike the government project, there is no regulation regarding the procedure for the nomination of candidates for judges, which in our assessment requires a change. The solutions proposed in the government project, as well as in the parliamentary project, according to the Free and Solidarnia Circle, are underdeveloped and require wider discussion and consultation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as extensive consultation with the judicial community. Further work on the government project is, in our view, possible, and we therefore request that it be directed towards further legislative work. On the other hand, the parliamentary project as an incomplete, non-regulatory nomination of judges and as a de facto voice in its own matters of the judicial environment does not deserve our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u375	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Sanocki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hugely - first I will say so pro domo sua - I am glad that art. 4 is mentioned here in the context of the judiciary, because without bragging, I was the first to say it from this speaker. The cause of pathology in the Polish judicial dimension, in terms of courts, including the operation of the Polish courts, is the violation of this article, lack of external control, lack of valid choice of the judge. It's a nation or its representatives who have the right to choose. There is absolutely no doubt about that. I'm surprised the opposition lawyers can't see the obvious. Hence the Iustitia project does not deserve to be proceded, because it does not restore this principle, respect for a rule, but the government project is certainly not unconstitutional in the extent to which it establishes the Sejm with this body, which consists of representatives of the nation, to elect members of the National Council of Judicial Affairs. I have many doubts about other records of this project, e.g. how to select candidates for judges, those elected by the Sejm. I believe that this should be changed so that this is not the case, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, that this is about stubbornness of this process, because please remember that democratic power is going from elections to elections and there is no guarantee that it will rule forever. It has to be a process, one that doesn't cause controversy. In this respect, I would say, for example. by a qualified majority of 3/5 of the selection of these judges, as well as the possibility for citizens, associations outside the formation of the court to submit candidates, and the reduction of that amount, 50 Members who have the right to report. On the other hand, this division into two chambers raises doubts, but in general the fact that the Sejm is to select candidates for the organ, which then elects judges, is absolutely in line with the fundamental principle of democracy as expressed in the article. 4, or the principle of national sovereignty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u377	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Over 20 parliamentarians signed up for questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u378	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Referring to the government bill amending the Act on the National Council of Courts, it should be assessed as a project detrimental to Polish democracy, whose purpose is to stubbornly make the Law and Justice of this body and completely dependent the judicial authority on the legislative authority. This bill has been negatively assessed not only by the judicial environments in Poland, which agree that the proposed amendments violate the Constitution and pose a real threat to the protection of the rule of law, human rights and freedom, or the Ombudsman, but also by the European institutions, such as the European Commissioner for Human Rights and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. My question to the Minister: Why do you want to do another after the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, the prosecutor's office to assassinate democracy in Poland, interfering with the principle of three divisions of power and independence of the judiciary? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u379	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman, the Supreme Court, the NSA, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, constitutionalists, non-governmental organisations, the judges' associations - all do not leave dry hair on your project. Why are you so critical? Thus, in the event that these changes enter into force, the independence of the judge will become a fiction, and the full control of the justice system will be exercised by politicians. The Minister, referring, for example, to the OSCE opinion, stated that it was unprofessional and full of substantive errors. So I have a question: Are all these opinions so unprofessional? Is everyone else wrong? Or are they all stuck in some destructive arrangement that won't let you fix Poland? No, Minister, it's not. They're criticizing because this project is bad because it's tearing down constitutional order, because it's tearing down the principle of three divisions of power, because it's not for improvement, it's for property. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u381	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill shows how to dismantle the constitutional system of division of power, how to take it politically. The mandate of the current independent judges of the members of the KRS is to expire 30 days after the entry into force of the Act. This will happen early and for no reason, although the four-year term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council is protected by the Constitution. The new judges to the National Courts are to be elected by a majority of the Members, namely Members of the Law and Justice. Where is the constitutional independence of the judiciary in the proposed changes? None of her records. When are you gonna stop manipulating the judiciary and breaking the constitution? Is the Law on Judicial Experts planned, and is the government doing something in this direction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u383	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like everything that the Law and Justice affect, it's about power, and this time it's about absolute power. Selfless, addictive, submissive. The Constitution of Free Poland is a post-communist barrier, the judicial authority is a team of guys. However, we would like to remind you that this power, as quickly as it degenerates, will also reach the level of absolute degeneration as absolute power, as you dream and dream about. You can see that very much in the polls. What are you doing in this bill? In this bill, you correct Montesquius, you improve the principle of three divisions of power, which was already included in the Constitution on 3 May. You do not respect the constitution of free Poland, but do not change the principle of three divisions of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u385	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're referring to an art. 4, saying that the nation exercises power either directly or through its representatives, so you want to deprive the judiciary of choosing your own representatives for the judicial council. Well, I was going to say that the judges didn't come out of nowhere, they didn't come out of the air. Each judge was appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland, who was elected by the whole nation. The judges have a strong mandate to choose their own representation to the National Judicial Council. What you're doing is the usurpation of power, here the Sejm is unnecessary. The term of office. The Minister does not distinguish between the termination of the mandate due to individual causes: death, some disciplinary matters, and the termination of the entire term of office of the Council immediately. It's definitely anti-constitutional. The number of judges on the national council. There are recommendations from the OSCE, the Council of Europe, to elect judicial councils with a majority representation of judges elected by judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what Georgia, Albania, Ukraine is all about, and you are pushing Poland into some completely non-European league. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u387	Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u388	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Act on the National Council of Courts in practice leads to a full politicisation of the procedure for the selection of judges in Poland, which is a completely contrary to the Constitution and the principle of three divisions of power in Poland. The Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. I ask you to answer the question: Why can't the members of the National Judicial Council be elected by the sovereign? Why will the decision to choose this authority be a legislative authority? This law is non-constitutional. You should be ashamed of her. I hope that you will answer to the citizens for depriving them of their right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u389	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The government bill violates many provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, among others. Article 2 Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 179, Art. 186 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control Politicalisation of the constitutional body of the State, which is the National Judicial Council, thereby threatening the fundamental principles of the independence of the courts and independence of judges. It violates three divisions of power. I therefore ask the Minister with questions. Is the Minister aware of the violation of the provisions of the basic law, the most important act of the Republic of Poland, through the provisions of this law? Is the Minister aware that the implementation of these rules will mean, in practice, a change in the state system? If you are aware of this, please answer: what kind of system will prevail in our country: mono-government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dictatorship, duckism? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u391	Mr Wojciech Wilk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The reading presented by the Ministry of Justice of the project concerning the National Judicial Council, the analysis of opinions concerning this project - I will mention the opinion of the Office for Sejm Analysis, the opinion of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the OSCE or the opinions of numerous legal authorities - leads us to conclude that we are dealing with a legal bubble which should be embarrassed rather than put it in a positive light. Of course, the fundamental charge concerns a contradiction with the constitution of this project. I have this question: What is the real purpose of this regulation? Is this a matter of complete submission to the justice system of law and justice? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems that yes, all the more so because this is not the first law that interferes with an independent justice system. However, once this law is implemented, the independence of the judiciary will become a real fiction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u393	Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u394	Minister! Without a social legitimacy to change the constitution, you continue with the violence of the parliamentary majority to assassinate democracy. First you destroyed the tribunal, then you wiped out the politically independent prosecutor's office and politicized the special forces. Today, you started your journey towards taking over the National Judicial Council to make the KRS dependent on Mr Kaczyński and Minister Ziobra. Today you want to take full control of the justice system against the law, like usurpers. You enter into actions contrary to the constitution, contrary to the principles of the threefold division of power and contrary to the independence of the judiciary. I have a question for you, Minister Ziobra: Why do you have the critical voices of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Legislative Office and, finally, all the judges' associations and why such a broad reform of the constitutional system has not been preceded by any consultation with the judicial community, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not counting four days to get an opinion on the project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u395	Mr Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Member shows picture]] Action time: February 28th. Place of action: parking on the street. Nowogrodzka, head office. Action hero: National Attorney. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, is it just as a national prosecutor arrives for an audience with a Member, the President of one of the parties, for such an audience of judges? Do you want to make the party courts of PiS? Do you want judgments to be agreed on in Novgorodska? And one last question: What did you talk to Mr Kaczyński about? Why don't we meet a hero? We already know the location, we know the time of the action, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but the content We're very interested in talking. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[What was Tusk and Putin talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u397	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why do you ignore the really well prepared and reasonably presented opinions of the National Judicial Council, the Legal Office of the Sejm? You have even classified this opinion because it is not on the pages of the Sejm, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe or the Commissioner for Security and Cooperation. human rights in Europe. You think you're the smartest? No, that's what you think. I really - and society too - have more confidence in the opinions that have been quoted here than in the words that he says, among others. Mr Piotrowicz, because, as I listen to Mr Piotrowicz, I am sure that he can calmly tell us that the broken Audi Prime Minister is an accident-free novelty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u399	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not just a debate. Today we are holding one of the most important debates in this term of office, and the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges are at stake. The Constitution has clearly established the National Judicial Council as guardian of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judiciary. Today, the Law and Justice project is trying to devastate this institution. I ask: On what basis do you provide for the possibility of two conventions? The Constitution doesn't give us any grounds for that. Art. 187 clearly indicates who is part of it and does not give rise to any division. Mr Piotrowicz, please read the constitution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The legislative power is divided and the constitution has clearly divided this power into the Sejm and the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u401	Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u402	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There is one dogma from the statements of the Members of the opposition: judges can choose themselves. [[Yes.]] I am surprised that this rule has not been translated into executive and legislative power, that in the 7th term of office they have not decided by ordinary law that the outgoing parliament will elect another and the outgoing government will elect its successors. [[Don't you know that?]] [[The Constitution won't allow it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, be consistent on this matter. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you why the Members of the opposition do not respect so much, so suspicious of the judges, because they suspect the judges elected by Parliament to the National Judicial Council that they will carry out their duties improperly, will be objective and independent. What may this result from? Thank you. [[That's because you choose them. No criteria, purely politically.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u403	Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u404	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Today's discussion clearly demonstrates the need for a thorough reform of the justice system in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They speak of this need with one voice of government and opposition, but above all, it is demanded by society, sovereign. The government project in its records goes much further than the judge's project. Minister, does the government project restore constitutional and democratic order? Does it restore the sovereign's influence on judicial authority? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The influence is yes.]] Finally, what can we do to explain the negative views on the proposed solutions from the wider justice system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u405	Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill raises serious constitutional doubts - says the Sejm legislators about the rules that PiS wants to interrupt the term of office of the National Judicial Council. The project shall expire the term of office of 15 judges of the National Judicial Council. The new ones are to be chosen not by the judges, but by the majority. Why, despite the clear opinion of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the Legislative Office and other institutions, is the ruling party continuing to destroy the National Judicial Council, breaking brutally the constitution? My constituents ask: Who gave you this right? There's no answer to that. No one has given you that right. How determined is PiS to implement its plan by destroying the democratic achievements of the country along the way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u407	Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I have the impression that you have been mistaken by the judicial council for the political council, of course by the political council of PiS. Do you really think... I therefore have a question: Who will make a decision that the judge will support and not support? Who will decide that 50 PiS Members will support this judge instead of this? Will the criterion be what sentences he issued against Members or Ministers of the PIS? Will the judges who have issued critical sentences for ministers or Members be doomed in advance that they will not be able to promote or be members of the National Judicial Council? Does every advice you make or work in a country really have to be a PiS advice? This really is something else: the PiS statute and the constitution. These are two different things, don't confuse it, please. Not every council in the country must be a political council of the PiS. Step away from it, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u409	Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u410	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In this brief question I wanted to talk about the constitution, I wanted to talk about all these aspects of this government project, which is missing the constitution, but it doesn't make any sense, because these arguments just don't come to you. So I'm going to say something that might interest you. In your calculation, in which you have made Zbigniew Ziobra a giant of Polish politics, which soon as an alpha male can replace the sovereign who is absent today, there is one element missing in this whole puzzle - that is, when you print the evidence that you will be able to accuse whom you want, this person will still have to be convicted, Minister, right? And here the deficit of this ability to influence these judgments has pushed you to create this irrational project. Only in all this calculation must you keep in mind one thing that will come such a day, such an hour that you will surrender power and who else will decide these political judgments, and then they can reach you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u411	Krzysztof Mieszkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote the first sentences of Franz Kafka's trial, they are extremely important for our debate: Someone had to report to Józef K. because although he did nothing wrong, he was just arrested one morning. According to this philosophy, you are working on Polish democracy, so you understand the judiciary. I am shocked by your contempt for the Polish Constitution. I understand that you are following the logic of the revolution, where the legislative and judicial authority is subject to executive power, that is the condition of this revolutionary logic, but at the same time I wonder, and I ask you whether you want by law to invalidate the Polish constitution, this constitution, which is the most important act of the Republic of Poland, which you are so horribly digging up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u413	Mr Adam Szłapka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wonder what is the point of reference for Members, Ministers of Law and Justice in lawmaking, because certainly not the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in which it is written directly that we are dealing with a threefold division of power, and the judicial authority cannot be dependent on the legislative authority, that is, directly on politicians. In the project that you are proposing, this will be the case - ordinary majority will be elected members of the National Judicial Council. But when you think about this question, the answer is very simple, because this point of reference sits very deeply in the head ironically here smiling Mr Peterowicz - this is the constitution of 1952, the constitution of the Polish People's Republic, where the principle of uniformity of state power is written directly. The whole state power comes from the will of the nation, I understand that your sovereign, from what you understand as a sovereign, or Jarosław Sovereign Kaczyński. [[Applause]] He's the one who's gonna decide what they're gonna look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judges in Poland that the archetype of the judge will be Judge Kryża and Prosecutor Piotrowicz. That's what you're getting at. But the Court of State will certainly settle you in the next term of office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u415	Thank you, sir. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Which is why I'm asking you to take the floor of the Undersecretary of State... [[Mr. Marshal, my name has been mentioned many times, and I'd like to refer to it.]] Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Piotrowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! I have the impression that Members are immune to the text of the Constitution. I've read in extenso the constitutional rules on the National Judicial Council. It turns out that, contrary to the constitution's provisions, the Members of the opposition are saying something completely different from the Constitution's. [[That's not the constitution.]] You're saying that we don't care about opinions, and of course you attribute it to a large part of me. [[That's not the constitution, sir.]] Opinions come from a wide-ranging justice system that is interested in status quo, so that nothing can change. [[Some Council of Europe.]] It is pathetic that opposition Members trample their paths to foreign institutions, seeking support... [[In the West, it's horrible.]] ...because they're powerless to reverse the course of recent elections. [[And that's gonna change.]] This kind of behaviour is against democracy. You want to reverse the sovereign's verdict, looking for help outside Poland. This is an outrage. The representatives of the National Judicial Council act in a similar way. They write petitions to foreign institutions, they run to the German embassy, complaining that the will of the nation is being carried out in Poland. [[They're supposed to write in Novgorod.]] And if you say that there is a division of authorities, I wonder why you always forget that there is a balance in the constitution next to the division of authorities. [[Separate power.]] Somehow you're not talking about balance. [[173.]] [[Please don't disturb me!]] What about your sense of national sovereignty, gentlemen? It's a shame to keep looking at strangers, to embezzle your own people, to seek help from others. [[It was a shame to be a member of the PZPR.]] Mr President, [[♪ The bell ♪]] you should look around in your own ranks. Because I agree with you... [[That it was a shame.]] ...with the commune. Look around in your own ranks, reflect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u417	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u418	Doesn't what you represent now refer to that time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u419	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The choice of judges and the temporality of their duties is the best guarantee of independence and, therefore, justice of judgment. Where's that quote coming from? This is a quote from the opinion, commentary on the Constitution on 3 May. I address Mr Honourable. Thank you for your question, very good question, it's about art. The 8th Constitution of May 3rd, which just indicated that the earthly courts for the nobles, the municipal courts for the townspeople and the referenda courts for the peasants of the country were from the elections... [[With separate power.]] ...they were elected, they were elected. Therefore, this choice and the timing of the duties were regarded as the best guarantee of justice of judgment, independence. We're not going that far. We do not propose direct elections to courts, we do not propose a term of office of a judge, although there is such a model, the term of office of a judge occurs in several European countries. That's not what we're proposing. We propose a very intermediate model, very delicate, I would say. National Judicial Council, which at the moment is almost 70% is dominated by the judicial community, where the judges appoint themselves, nominate themselves and evaluate themselves, is a corporate model, which is already in the opinion of both the public and the judges themselves - this must be clearly emphasized - a model compromised. Therefore, this social control is essential. I'm going back to the questions. When it comes to the assassination - to Mr Paweł Bańkowski - of judicial authority, it is an assassination, but a satva. It's an assassination attempt on corporateism, [[Applause]] This is an attack on a situation in which the judicial board represents the particular interests of judges towards judges. She forgot her ethos, forgot what she was called to, namely that she was an organ of representation of society towards judges - a central constitutional body, not a central judicial authority, a central body of the judiciary, as the OSCE wanted to tell us. It's not like experts say, pseudo-experts of all kinds. This has been raised many times here: Why do we ignore the OSCE's opinion? Because she's manipulated and she's just not true. The judicial authority is one of the three authorities subject to scrutiny, subject to balance. It is not the superior authority, it is not the first power, because the first power belongs to the nation. If we read, we will look at other patterns, even if indicated by the Venice Commission... No one other than the Venice Commission in its report of last year points out that a situation where the National Judicial Council would be dominated would consist solely of judges would cause us to face various types of pathological risks, different kinds of unhealthy corporateism. No one other than the Venice Commission points out this type of threat, and I will remind you that almost 70% Our advice is judges. Two chambers. There are two chambers in France. [[Voices from the hall: But not in our constitution.]] The Constitutional legislature has not said a word about two chambers. He pointed out what was more in the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4. that the system, method of choice, mode of operation and scope of action are established by the ordinary legislature. The role of the ordinary legislator is to indicate what mode of work will be. [[In line with the constitution.]] The two chambers shall be subject to the ordinary legislature. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But can the Sejm have two chambers?]] Only in Article. In paragraph 187. 2 The Constitutional legislature indicated that the body of the National Judicial Council is the President and Vice-President. End of story. [[And there's nothing about chambers.]] The Constitutional legislator shall remain silent on this situation and, which shall be emphasised in accordance with Article. 7 constitutions, the principle of legalism, you can't usurp power, no authority can usurp power that is not given to it by law. Therefore, it is not possible to usurp such power to state that this constitution requires the choice of judges from among judges, that it is the constitution that requires judges to choose themselves, that this constitution requires that there be no chambers, that the constitution prohibits chambers. There's no such thing. The principle of legalism, I repeat, the principle of banning the usurpation of power, the presumption of power by any government authority prevents such presumption. These are the presumptions that you make, entirely any, unremarkable reflections in the constitution's regulations. It is the ordinary legislator who has the right to do so and thus does so. [[He has no right to extend his powers.]] As regards the Law on Experts, she is ready, Mrs Margaret - here I am addressing Mrs Margaret Navel. Many solutions concerning experts, pathology in the field of experts have already been eliminated, namely the experts have no right to demand remuneration for an opinion which is highly unreliable, which is clumsy, which is very often simply a false opinion. We have already introduced such solutions, in August last year they came into force, and therefore there are a whole range of solutions that are being prepared, including the entire comprehensive law on experts. Full agreement, the work of experts should be standardized. We have been waiting for this law for many, many years, and there is no law, and therefore there is also a proposal for very concrete changes. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: After all, you have been in charge for 1.5 years.]] We are in dialogue with various types of experts in this area, so that you will receive this type of project, I hope that this year as far as experts are concerned. Full agreement, Madame, the situation of experts needs to be amended. Why can't the KRS members be elected by the sovereign? Mr Stefan Romecki of Kukiz,15, asked this question. That's the question I've already answered in part. Namely, in fact, the choice and choice, as well as the cadence of judicial functions, functionality is the best guarantee of independence, and therefore justice of judgment - in accordance with the Article. 8th Constitution 3 May. Mr President, in this situation, we are only proposing an intermediate solution. As regards the choice of all judicial positions, 10,000. Judges, this is a far further undertaking than just, I will say, for one term. I'll tell you more, it requires a change of constitution. Therefore, the choice of judges by society would require a fundamental reform of the foundations of the functioning of the State, including towards the Article. 8th Constitution of May 3rd, which I quoted. At the moment, our constitutional framework does not allow for this type of model, but it is indeed a proposal that is not alien to our legal system for historical reasons, which I mentioned earlier. Another question. Mrs Joanna Frydrych asked what kind of system would be in our country. Democracy, and democracy with respect to constitutional principles, because our citizens chose not judges in 1997 but democracy, they chose the principle that the legitimacy of judicial authority comes from society, not from judges themselves. Judges shall not rule on behalf of themselves, on behalf of their fellow Members, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, on behalf of the whole society in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. This is the realization of the constitution at this point. We're going back to the constitutional principles that have been passed over the years. The reform is 20 years late. It should be done with the entry into force of the present constitution, and that this has not happened, unfortunately, it is only regrettable. Ms Monika Wielichowska asked a question about critical votes by the Supreme Court, consultation with the judges' environment. [[Not just the Supreme Court.]] With regard to these consultations, with regard to opinions, why we do not take into account opinions - please show me how many critical opinions, when you had an impact on lawmaking, you took into account. [[You didn't answer my question.]] Why aren't they included? An opinion is an opinion. Everyone has the right to act in accordance with what he accepts, in accordance with the constitution and in accordance with the demands he has made towards his constituents. And with regard to the opinion of one, the other or the third, I will also ask the question: Why should the opinion of X be taken into account rather than the opinion of Y be taken into account? Why, for example? have you kept silent on the opinion of the Venice Commission, in which it is clearly pointed out that collusion threatens a situation in which there is dominance or a visible influence of judges on the National Judicial Council? At this point in time, this is silenced as regards the Venice Commission, while another OECD opinion is set up, which indicates that the National Council of the Court of Justice is an organ of the judiciary, which is obviously not true. So how can we take into account opinions that are simply false? I'm talking about the OECD opinion right now. So that we will explain this at the working level, such questionable interpretations of our laws testify, I have the impression, of the ignorance of our legal system. [[You don't believe what you're saying.]] However, as regards the consultation of the judicial community, it is not true that there was no consultation. Namely, appropriate time limits have been provided for the opinion of the Council. [[Four days.]] The presentation of 2 May was sent to the Council on 5 May and requested an opinion indicating that the drafter would be grateful for considering the draft at the next meeting of the Council. [[How many days did it take?]] And here we have taken into account the method of proceding the council, namely a situation in which the council does not work every day, but is convened at regular meetings, which we have expressed in our request. In no way did this oblige us to take a stand within any time limit imposed. The Council's position was sent to us on 20 May, 15 days after it was received. With regard to the next version of the proposal, in a letter dated 24 January, we asked the Council to take a position, and even replying after that date did not give rise to the possibility to take account of the comments submitted, and this was still at the stage of the presentation of the work. The work is public, it is taking place in committees, in subcommittees, dialogue is ongoing, we are open to this dialogue and this dialogue with the judicial community we expect. [[What about the National Attorney in Novgorod?]] So that here all critical opinions are collected, we respond to them. We are as ready as possible to take into account all kinds of demands, conclusions, but not conclusions such that we are not changing anything. And that is what the parliamentary project is going to do here just moments ago, presented. Namely, the situation in which the judges are to continue to elect judges does not change anything and is simply powdering this unhealthy state, which is not in accordance with the constitution, which should be clearly emphasized, because the constitution is not a judge, but a democracy. That is why we are in favour of constructive dialogue in the name of the principles that I am talking about here. Mr Grabarczyk asked the question: What is the basis for two assemblies? Mr President, on the basis of the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 the Constitution according to which the government and the work of this council are entrusted to the ordinary legislature. The Constitutional legislator has not in any way indicated how and how the Council organises its work in addition to the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 where he specifically pointed out the President and Vice-President as two bodies which came from the elections by the Council itself. Thus, as the expert opinions presented to us show, this matter belongs to the council system, and this one defines the law. [[What's the point?]] If neither chamber has a formal advantage over the other, the mode of their work will not favour either chamber, and the decisions will ultimately be decided by the entire council, and when the majority of the board members have decided to do so by law, there is no violation of the Constitution. I'll tell you more: we give preference to judges. This 17 votes will be decisive if there are discrepancies in the context of a given resolution, in the context of a given position, and the summarum votes will prevail over the votes of representatives of Members or Senators. As far as further questions are concerned, it is from substantive questions, because here I will not refer for obvious reasons to the positions expressed by some Members of Parliament... I'm just going to point out if all the opinions are unprofessional. Mrs. Catherine Osos asked me this question. Madame, no, it is not that opinions are professional or unprofessional. Everyone has the right to express their opinion. Unprofessional opinion is the OECD opinion... [[OSCE.]] ...because it demonstrates the ignorance of our legal system, as it indicates that the National Court of Justice is an organ of the judiciary, which is obviously not true. In addition, it uses manipulations such as that on page 12 of point 29, if I remember correctly, refers to such a European report on statistics as regards the appointment of judges in different countries, and points out that 22 countries in the Council, in the European Union, are countries... [[But Minister, you're wrong about the OECD from the OSCE.]] OSCE. Thank you, sir, thank you, indeed the OSCE. It points out that 22 countries have national judicial councils and do not take into account that Italy is counted double and that the UK is counted triple. So that we can find these kinds of issues there. I am referring to page 12, paragraph 29 of that OSCE opinion. Thank you, sir. So there's nothing to discuss here. I don't think that's the professionalism of this opinion. We'll agree here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u421	Thank you, Minister. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, as corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a matter of crazy importance: judicial independence, independence of the courts. With regard to the constitution, the embodyer purposely constructed the National Judicial Council as a collegial body of mixed composition precisely so that there would be no judges, so that there would be a relative balance between the representatives of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities. The provisions of the Article shall apply. The 187, which you have invoked, do not give rise to the separation of the two assemblies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that comes directly from the mouth. Article 2 187. The National Judicial Board shall elect its Chairperson and two Vice-Chairs from among its members. It means that the regulator wants the body to act collegially under the leadership of one President and two Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u423	Thank you very much, sir. This is not a form of correction. This is another voice in the discussion. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u424	But I'm just getting straightened out because the Minister misunderstood what I said...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u425	Mr. President, that's great. Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u426	...and Mr. Marshal has shortened his time, because the rules provide for two minutes to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u427	Thank you very much, Minister. I think the Minister has already understood this correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u428	But it's really important. You're wrong. The Constitution has no basis for sharing. If this were to be the case, this body would be divided into two chambers just like the legislative authority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u429	Thank you, sir. In corrigendum mode, Marshal Dolnyak is also reporting. But, Commissioner, you were not mentioned by name or by name. [[She was.]] You weren't, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u430	Mr. Marshal, if we look at the rules, it's not written there that you have to be read by name and by name. [[Bravo!]] It is sufficient that the answer to whether a statement has been misunderstood or interpreted. There's no mention of a name at all. Then you will allow me, Marshal, that in the mode of correcting the ministers...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u431	There is, Your Marshal, something like a good custom and practice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u432	In response to the question of one of our fellow Members and of us as well, the other speakers were accused that it was the judges who expressed their own opinion on the matter. Well, Minister, I hold in my hand two external opinions prepared on my behalf, namely you, Professor Ryszard Piotrowski of Warsaw University and Dr. Tomasz Zalasiński, on the question of whether your project is compatible with the Constitution. Both of these opinions clearly and undoubtedly say: this law, this project is incompatible with the constitution under many aspects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's worth remembering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u433	Thank you. I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good practice to refer to questions that have been asked about the project that I had the pleasure of presenting. Maybe I should start with a statement by Mr Waldemar Buda, who stated explicitly that the parliamentary project we presented, as if it continued to practice so that the judges would go on their own. I wanted to give you one fact, which I do not think is a questionable fact, an approximation. Well, I will not appeal to opinion or expertise, but I will refer to the doctrine of constitutional law. Well, in this doctrine there is a well-established view that there are two choices for the National Courts: a general vote among all judges and a choice made by the judiciary. The second option is currently in force. Only the introduction of universal voting would be acceptable. On the other hand, as regards Mrs Joanna Borowiak of the parliamentary club PiS, she also estimated that only the government project is the project that gives the sovereign a guarantee of influence on what is happening in the KRS. Well, Commissioner, the sovereign through other institutions, the constitutional authorities have had a long-standing impact on what is happening in the National Courts. Because it is worth recalling that there are four representatives of the Sejm, two representatives of the Senate, one representative of the President, and you yourself are the Minister of Justice, so it is not so that the National Judicial Council is the judges themselves. With regard to Minister Warchoł's statement, the Minister states that you are proposing such an intermediate model. Really, Minister, it's hard not to get the impression that this bill you've presented is a model, but it's convenient for you as today's parliamentary majority. You're still using these terms that it's a shiatva, the judiciary is a shiatva that only serves itself. I am the only one before the end of this debate today that I would like to warn you that, as judges, the justice system will only serve power, it will really run out of space to also have regard for citizens and their affairs, as well as disputes that with authorities, for example, will be fought. And then there's gonna be a really big problem. Finally, in two sentences, I would like to refer to several statements made by Mr Peterowicz. You've been talking about these constitutional aspects many times, but I have the impression that you've been doing a little bit of a spell on reality for a good year. This enchantment of reality began with these driveway wars related to the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, like the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Council of the Court of Justice is, whether it pleases or dislikes, the constitutional body of the State which is empowered in two frequently mentioned Constitutional Articles in this debate today, namely Article. 186 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 187. And you can't, no one has the title to mess with this body under ordinary laws: both in terms of choice and in terms of two chambers. You could do that, you could introduce a two-storey in the KRS, but you'd have to have at least a constitutional majority here in this room. [[Applause]] And then, sir, yes. And then there's full agreement. Finally, Mr Marshal, in order not to prolong it, it is regrettable that the representative of the Parliament's majority does not foresee the possibility that Parliament's work should be carried out in parallel with the government project, as I said at the outset. Unfortunately, although this is no longer surprising, these statements from the beginning of the 8th term of the Sejm, which fell from this speaker and Prime Minister Szydło, and Mr Duda, about this will to debate, dialogue, openness to talk with the opposition, remain a farce and today as if... Unfortunately, it is not the first time that they were most likely just certain clichés for the need of the moment. It's a pity, because it was possible, when it comes to these two projects, at least to give the committee a chance to work. Unfortunately, this is not the case, we will proceed on one project, which is a model and similar to the majority of the Seym prepared, which has numerous errors. It's a shame, but today you have 100%. power in this House. But you also have to remember - and this as a punch line I would like to leave - that also 100% The responsibility for these actions will rest with you in the future. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u435	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1423 and 1435 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. High Izbo! Before we get to the next point, I'm announcing a three-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 05 hrs. 20 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's bill on auditors, audit firms and on public oversight (prints Nos 1092 and 1447). I would like to ask Mr Arthur Soboń to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission dealt with the draft Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. She set up an extraordinary subcommittee for this purpose. The subcommittee worked from December to March, held 10 meetings, during which we had the opportunity to hear the opinion of all interested in this draft law. And the project is important. The proposal deals with regulations relating in particular to this professional group, which are auditors, which are auditors, and for them it is, you can say, a constitution. But it also concerns the entire market, which is based on the credibility of these financial statements and those data that we receive thanks to the independence and reliability of the auditors' work. We listened to a debate that took place during the work of the Parliament's subcommittee and during the work of the committee, as well as in the public space where there was a discussion between supporters of various solutions, because in this project, a government project, we implement European law, adapting it to Polish realities. And these Polish realities are quite specific and require some state intervention, which is more radical than in other countries. I mean, we have this market of services in this area, audit services, which is a market dominated by the largest, so-called. a large four, entities which, according to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, significantly establish oligopolies in this market, and this market is largely closed to entities smaller than those with a dominant position which is clear. Any intervention that will defocus this market is desirable. It was also during the implementation of these provisions that both the Minister and all the Members who worked on this project were behind the head. The whole idea to redefine audit and advice on the capital market not only in Poland but all over the world, from the United States to Europe, of course, resulted from the crisis, from the reflections that were connected with what happened. There has been a very serious discussion and, as a result of this discussion, European legislation has in a sense forced the Member States of the European Union to adopt a whole range of solutions that regulate this market in a much more rigorous way than it did before. We talked about this and from this tribune, I also talked about it, everyone knows it from public messages, so I will not mention these examples in the world and in Europe. On the other hand, the result of this reflection is the European rules which we introduce into the Polish legal order in this draft law. What's driving us? Above all, we are concerned about the independence of the auditor and his professional skepticism, which is an overriding value. That is, we believe that what we receive as market participants, as all potentially and really interested in this information from auditors, is so important for the entire economy that this independence of the auditor should be protected to the maximum extent possible. And these radical, as many will probably admit, the solutions we have adopted and which we are proposing to the High House are therefore so firm. That is to say, we want to resolve clearly the separation of all services provided by auditors other than financial audit services and to lead to a situation in which no one is a judge in their own case, i.e. in which we guarantee that auditors, doing their job, at the work of the one which is, as I said, extremely important for the entire market, are completely independent, also within the framework of those large audit and advisory companies which today have a dominant position on the Polish market, in particular as regards listed companies. The second area, which is equally important, is the standard of these tests, their quality, their readability for the entire market. It's something that's very important. And here, together with the board of auditors, together with the environment of these auditors, we are responsible for this and regulate it in the provisions of this law. Finally, the third thing, that is our responsibility, the responsibility of the state. That is, if we expect auditors to have independence, if we consider this independence to be the highest value if we re-establish regulations within the statutory authority, we also create an institutional framework for the State's responsibility for this process, for the financial review process, and for the credibility of the information that the market receives. Therefore, the role of the KNA, which is very, very important here, and the role of the State, also the role of the State in terms of sanctions for violating this law, which are important, i.e. which are intended to make it impossible for someone to be tempted not to comply with this chapter we are talking about here. During the work on the committee, of course, we focused on a number of issues and, it can be said, legislative and editorial, and the substantive amendments were far-reaching, and finally there was a government amendment, which clearly determined the outcome of our discussions on the fundamental issue of separation of audit advice, but it can be said that they were around rotation, i.e. the frequency imposed by the law and limited to a certain period, a relatively short period, as for European conditions. This is the thing that we had behind our heads, this public demand for deconcentration, the opening of this market also for Polish medium-sized entities. We'll see if it works, but we'll force a faster rotation of audit firms. We have identified these companies, which are the most important for the market in Poland. We called them individuals of public interest. We have defined which companies, units belong to this JZP directory. To them, these rigors are much greater than those of the others. They are most important for the economy, and therefore these rigors are much more demanding. And finally, sanctions. It's not the sword that's in the vagina, it's the sword that can be removed. Indeed, these penalties are potentially severe for those who do not. These rules are for the common good, because they serve precisely to make this Polish market a credible market for all its participants. It was very bad when working on this law that it was treated by the public as part of the rivalry of two professional groups, namely auditors and tax advisors. It's not true, it's just not the right picture. This, of course, looks attractive from the point of view of the media, because it is easy to present a thing as a rivalry of different professional groups. As we considered that from the market as a whole the most important values are the credibility, independence and professional scepticism of the auditor, we came to the conclusion that the situation where the auditor is in a wider group providing services other than audit services could potentially affect the independence of the auditor. You can say that in the case of auditors we create maximum health work. The conditions that auditors in this new law have are far more comfortable conditions for their work than those they have so far had. The aim was only to care for the entire market. In this market, everyone has their jobs. Other are the tasks of auditors, others are the tasks of tax advisors. Separation of these services serves all, hence our conviction that this is the way to judge. We've finished our work in the subcommittee. The committee's report is the subject of our deliberations today. This is a good project, a good result of our work. I would like to thank all those who have joined this work, including the social side, the Legislative Bureau. I think we have developed a good solution that will enable the independent development of both the audit services market and the advisory services market, while at the same time giving all participants of this market the assurance that the information they receive is information about the highest possible standard, and the Polish state will take responsibility for enforcing the implementation of this law. I ask the High House to accept this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u437	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Artur Soboń on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u438	The Law and Justice Club considers that after these months of work the project presented is a project that meets the expectations of all market participants. This is a project that we are both fulfilling the obligations that we have with regard to European law and the need to implement it into Polish legislation, as well as meeting the expectations of all those who wanted to organise audit authorities in a modern way and meet today's market requirements, define the scope of the services provided by auditors and provide them with the comfort of work that auditors should have. Like I said, their independence is the most important value. I was wondering if there were any examples, because they are always subject to the risk of ambiguity, i.e. it is never the case that only one reason relates to the outcome of the actions taken, but it is good to give an example. It's also good if it's not just international, it's national. And I was thinking about 2012, the PBG Capital Group, which published the auditor's opinion on 27 April 2012. In this opinion, of course, there was a guarantee vis-à-vis the entire market that everything was conducted correctly, that the company could continue its business. Madam President, I would like to inform you that on 4 June this group has submitted a request for bankruptcy. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you can't put them all in one bag.]] I do not put them all in one bag, but I assure you that, in this particular case, the Member was advised by the same company that audited this capital group. As I said, this is not a clear example and it could be discussed, but it is an example showing a situation that is very risky for the market if we receive information from an expert in April that everything is being handled correctly and in June the group is filing for bankruptcy. Of course, the system failure, which, as we know, is not so bad for the whole group. This is obviously a bad situation for the whole market. In order not to be literal, I am giving this event as one of the many examples that we could give in this debate. In view of the fact that there is a market and for the sake of the market, and because of the requirements of implementing the law, the need to implement the Directive and the Regulation as effectively as possible, this is the project that responds to the expectation that the entire market has towards us, towards the Ministry, of parliamentarians. This expectation is optimally fulfilled by the draft law on statutory auditors, audit and public oversight prepared by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u439	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government bill on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, prints no. 1092 and 1447. The main objective of the proposed law is to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the new European Union audit legislation covering Directive 2014/56 of the European Union on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Regulation 537/2014 on detailed requirements for statutory audits of financial statements of entities of public interest. During the legislative work, in particular during the session of the extraordinary subcommittee, a lot of time was devoted to examining nearly a thousand legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau. This made the work of the subcommittee very difficult and limited the possibilities of substantive work. The legislative quality of the government proposal raised serious concerns. During the discussion, some issues, in particular the catalogue of bodies defined as bodies of public interest, were highly controversial. The greatest reservations concerned the exclusion, at the request of Members of the Law and Justice, of the catalogue of entities of the National Credit and Credit Savings and cooperative savings and credit banks, even though the government included these entities in the first version of the project. Although, after reflection, there was an amendment restoring cooperative savings and credit banks to the catalogue of entities defined as entities of public interest, it is a mistake to abandon the national cash register in the current situation of those entities. For this reason, I submit on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform amendments restoring the condition of the first version of the draft Print Act No. 1092 with a certain modification. Another issue that raises serious doubts is the Government's amendment extending in Article. 136 a catalogue of services prohibited from companies examining financial statements for other services other than auditing activities. The introduction of a complete ban on the provision of ancillary services may lead to a situation preventing a statutory audit. Such an absolute limitation will lead to complications in the provision of audit services at the level of international capital groups. As stated in the discussion, this provision will significantly impede the functioning of the cooperative bank sector, as the auditing unions examining the financial statements of cooperative banks will not be able to carry out the vetting in those banks under the Cooperative Law. I understand the purpose of introducing a list of prohibited services, but I believe that it had to be balanced whether such a provision would not introduce much more complications and difficulties than would bring benefits. I would like to stress that it is legitimate for us to introduce restrictions on the possibility of providing additional services to the audited public interest entity, but the introduction of a complete ban is a mistake. In the final part of my speech, I would like to draw attention to the objectives pursued by Community rules, which we are implementing in the Polish legal system. Firstly, it is a strengthening of the independence and objectivity of statutory auditors and audit firms. Secondly, improving the quality of statutory audits by better quality reporting from research to different addressees. Thirdly, strengthening public oversight by strengthening its independence from the environment of auditors. It is important, what I stress with all my power, that these objectives should be achieved under Polish conditions. Thank you for your attention. These are corrections, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u441	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft Act on auditors, audit firms and on public supervision, i.e. prints Nos 1092 and 1447. First of all, I bow to the President for a smooth long work on this law, because it is a comprehensive act regulating the principles of the performance of auditors and not only. Moreover, this has already been mentioned by Mrs Czernow, almost 1000 legislative amendments, which have significantly hindered, prolonged and prolonged the work of the subcommittee, which have finally found its finale. On the other hand, speaking directly about what Mr President said about this project, I will say this: the declared objectives are right and this is a constant feature, in principle, of all parties, of all parliamentary term. If you look, these goals are always good. The question is whether the project actually achieves these objectives in a good way. I am glad that Mr President used the word "radically." In fact, this law is a radical law, it is a radical implementation of EU rules, and in principle it implements EU rules, radically tightening them up. Going further, referring also to the words of the President: Mr President spoke about the fact that there are trying to create certain conditions of good hygiene for the work of the industry, which is regulated by this law. I agree with that, but I have the impression that there are not as good hygiene conditions as sterile conditions. Such conditions, in which regulated entities are simply very easy to die. Mr President is smiling, but I think there is a grain of truth in the fact that conditions are created with sterile conditions, and that is wrong. You can't create rules that are that radical. Further, Mr President also spoke about the fact that the market is to be distracted. Today the market is dominated by entities from so-called. Big fours, that's a fact. The question, however, is what was done to distract this market. Because the introduction of the five-year rotation - the most radical in Europe - will in no way help small Polish companies in the sector governed by this law to enter the market and enable them to serve the largest entities. You can make some kind of comparison here that if you have a small battery, you can power a little flashlight with a little battery, but you can't power that little battery with a drone so that it goes. Unfortunately, this is what it looks like in practice, that the intentions were good, because supporting small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs is something that will always be supported both by me and I think by all Members of the Kukiz Club, but this bill unfortunately does not implement it. Moreover, to the draft report itself, we have tabled a dozen or so minority proposals as members of the Kukiz Club, which were earlier amendments, because the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was running at such a pace that we were unable to make all the amendments. For this reason, At the second reading today, we will make amendments on behalf of the club asking for reflection and consideration. It goes on for example. Two I'd like to mention. This applies to the organisation of employees, who will also be able to influence the shape of this board of auditors. The second amendment is minor, but, I think it's a good bow towards those who are no longer statutory auditors, which is the introduction of the senior auditor institution. In making use of the fact that I have a few seconds, I would like to once again call on the Minister present in the Chamber to actually consider... I presume that in the rapid procedure of proceding this law, no amendments will find support among the Law and Justice, but perhaps at the stage of work in the Senate, it is worth that the Ministry should consider opening a certain gate, creating a certain gate, namely regulating by means of a regulation those services which will not be prohibited, because today two market sectors are very radically separated. I understand that, but I think that soon we will be forced to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u443	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This implementation of the EU Directive is the best example of how the rule of law and justice treats EU law. You changed the good regulation so that audit firms in Poland will work on a completely different basis from the same entities in other countries of the European Union. Please do not mislead the public. This law is neither supported by the environment concerned, so it is not true what you have said, nor is it any measure, but, as you have said, it is a very restrictive regulation. I agree with the position of the National Chamber of Auditors that the act in its final form unduly limits the role of auditor in the market economy, and they cannot justify this to any individual case known to us from history, because in this way we would have to limit the states. The best example here is Greece, which simply acted in bad faith by misleading the European Commission. We could also talk about the bank that fell, the Lehman Brothers that we know from history. If someone is acting in bad faith, he will break the law regardless of the law, while such regulations refer to the whole group, where examples of individuals are transferred under collective responsibility. As I said, this bill goes too far, restricts the role of auditors, which includes. the independent certification of the correctness of financial and non-financial documents and the data contained therein, and here we are no longer dealing with consulting activities, but merely with the continuation of the work related to the financial revision. In this way, experts will not be able to carry out their own duties until now. A great example here is the confirmation of the data contained in the letter of confirmation used on the capital market, the reliable preparation and release of which is necessary in order to obtain new stock exchange investors. As a result of the changes, each stock exchange company, whether public or private, will have to pay, commission two audits of auditors, one of which will be as such an audit of the company, and on the basis of the other will be confirmed various types of data. Auditors examining the company will not be able to confirm the financial covenants to the funding banks, they will not be able to carry out any assessment for the internal business, even one that does not directly affect the data contained in the audited financial statements. Here you can give an example, first of all, of the valuation of another company whose purchase is interested in the subject - it seems that our internal auditor is the one to whom we trust and who can do this valuation in a fair way - secondly, confirmation of the valuation e.g. the construction of foreign exchange options that protect the risk of export sales in foreign currency or imported goods. Like here, there's a very strong conflict here. or the distribution of interests between tax advisors and auditors. The Ministry just stood on one side. As I support tax advisors, and I believe that they also play a very important role, so I cannot agree here, because audit firms have some kind of control over them. I have often seen situations in which auditors have withdrawn decisions already made about wrongly prepared and dangerous for the company some optimization proposals from old times when there were more such circumventions concerning the payment of taxes. I've seen auditors who've been holding back these kinds of situations, so this proposal isn't gonna cure anything. Unfortunately, we have stopped a dispute about important matters, like a joint study. Rotation, five years is another dispute that took place while working on this bill. No Member State today has a 5-year rotation system. Such a provision will mean that within six months 150 individuals of public interest will have to change the auditor. We were going to draw up a bill that would diversify the market, and this recipe would, among other things, make absolutely no difference. That's not enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I dare say that audit firms will separate their units and continue to operate as you did not wish. And if we were to middle up the forbidden services and gently expand these prohibited services, I think that everyone would agree to it and no one would try to figure out how to circumvent the law, because the losses resulting from the extra revenues would be small enough that no one would be profitable to make changes in the company's structure. Therefore, we are pouring out the baby with a bath and I guarantee that we will return to this bill after a year, up to 2 years, when you will find that this is not the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u445	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u446	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to take a position on this law. Well, I will no longer repeat all the comments that have been made. The law, which aims to implement EU law into our national law, extends and amends existing solutions too radically. I think it is important that - what is at all the purpose of audits - we have reliable information about the functioning of companies, so that the market, so that citizens, investors have reliable data. This is what we need for our economy, and there should not be so much doubt here. I think that even the rapporteur expressed these doubts in his speech, saying that we will see if this will work, we hope that this will work. We should create a clear and clear law here, without any doubts. We are in favour of proceding, because the bill is needed, because we need to create it, adapt our law, but we need to be sure and to the end the conviction that what we do will be best served. If you can still take these comments into account, it is a request to try to do It is good that this will serve our economy as best as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u447	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a few questions for the Minister of Finance, and they relate to the Ministry's amendment, which appeared at the last stage of the work in the Committee on Public Finance, which concerns the introduction of a complete ban on non- strict services. financial review for companies examining financial statements. In your opinion, Minister, is such a limitation not gonna make it harder to carry out a financial review at all? Because sometimes you have to do some minimal service that doesn't matter much, and it's necessary for the revision at all. Second question: Will this not cause problems in examining the financial statements of cooperative banks? The cooperative banks at the committee meeting raised this issue very strongly. He didn't end anything, but there was a problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why were no other solutions allowed in this amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u449	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if it is true that the directive under consideration, or rather its introduction, will avoid pathologies such as the one that the same entity, here the quote: examines the books and in principle is to be honest and objective, but at the same time advises the same company on how to avoid taxes. Will such tools as the introduction of the Audit Supervision Commission, rotation, up to 5 years, audit firms that study individuals of public interest, lead to the cessation of a business that is simply called creative accounting, especially in the Treasury companies? I am a Member from Silesia and I would like to be sure that companies which will advise mining companies will advise that, however, restructuring changes should not be branded, only they were carried out unambiguously. According to an audit of the activities of the previous government, one of the ministries employed an audit firm that collects 18,000. zł [[♪ The bell ♪]] In one hour. I would like to avoid these pathologies in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u451	Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u452	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The proposed government bill on auditors, audit firms and public oversight implementing European Union directives and regulations creates new regulations on audit services. Does the project properly protect the independence of auditors, or will it translate into the quality and comfort of their work and finally will it enable the development of the audit and advisory services market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u453	Thank you. Mrs Catherine Czochar.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question. Whether the amendment adopted on 22 March by the government will strengthen public oversight and the independence of research, while at the same time reducing the risk of doing business in Poland, especially in the area of the largest companies, i.e. the so-called. public interest units? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u455	Thank you. Since the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u456	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank you all for your club speeches, for your opinions, your comments, but also for working in an emergency subcommittee to examine the bill, the bill that has been formulated for 2 years, has been subject to a very extensive public consultation and is also a compromise resulting from the voice of the environments, especially audit communities, auditors, as well as the environment of tax advisors. I am very pleased that we have already brought the discussion to the most important issues at the stage of Parliament's work, to those issues which were most difficult to resolve in the course of the agreement and find a good compromise for them, a good consensus, while at the same time fulfilling the message of the EU rules that we are implementing this document, in a correct manner, in the most expected way by the market, in line with those hopes laid down in Regulation No 537 of 2014 and Directive 56/EU, a regulation on detailed requirements for statutory audit of public-interest entities. These regulations followed the 2009 financial market crisis, where one of its reasons, as estimated, was the incorrect assessment of the situation of these entities at the balance sheet level, at the level of audit accounts, of the auditors' opinions. They were primarily intended to clarify the conditions under which such documents were produced and thus to give professional scepticism to experts, to protect their independence and to meet such requirements that the auditor would be the person who would be credible - it would be credible in relation to the needs of owners, executives of companies, entities, but also future owners, people who make decisions, and they often take them very quickly, often by means of stock-exchange decisions on the acquisition of assets, shares, being owners of the portfolio bought by intermediaries, by investment fund associations. So such material, reliable, correct, is priceless. This then determines the harmonious development of economies, the security of these economies, financial systems. Hence, this is an area that really requires a particularly responsible approach and concern. We have brought a discussion in this area to these decisions which the framework of EU legislation requires us to make. We have brought it mainly in the final phase of work to a decision on the scope of the possibility of combining audit services and advisory services. The government amendment, which was subsequently adopted by the finance committee, was drafted in such a way that for individuals of public interest, for those of the largest entities, whose number is estimated to be around 2 000. - there are insurers, financial institutions, banks, are the largest units of local government, listed companies - we create certain conditions which here were called sterile, hygienic, which are permitted by EU regulations and in the field of e.g. The separation of advisory and audit services is followed by a country such as the Netherlands. We are not the only country in Europe that walks this path. This creates quite clear rules, which aim to provide the best material, which is objective for decision-makers, for company owners, for executives. It seems that in such a relationship it will be very easy to use mechanisms to create good opinions, good reports. That was the decision the government made. She was accepted by autocorrecting during work. The second main topic was the issue of rotation and withdrawal. A 5-year rotation was considered for the studies and the withdrawal period was 4 years. Except that all the research processes and the selection of the entities that carry out the research by the end of this year have been extended, in such a way as not to cause any perturbation or the need for additional selection of the audit firm or auditors. I answer: what we focus on in this discussion mainly concerns the biggest players, while regulation in those entities which are not of public interest is not so modern, it does not go in this direction that we have discussed. It's traditional. Those advisory services can be combined so that there is a large field for action for many, many entities. Indeed, as the rapporteur Artur Soboń recalled, it was the expectation of the market that this law would open up a field of competition for the execution of research orders for the largest operators for medium-sized, small companies that have been thawing, growing on our market and having the ambition to carry out financial research, has a better chance of developing in contact with large operators. Of course, there are arguments here that entities which today carry out a huge part of the research of these largest companies, entities from so-called. The big fours will continue to share this market. There was an attempt to resolve these regulations towards the so-called. a joint audit study called joint audit. There were many doubts about this tool and generally no arguments were presented that would give guarantees and certainty that this would give an opportunity to open up the market. There were issues of responsibility for the quality of research, in general responsibility for research, insurance of this research and distribution of costs, such as insurance or liability. So that's where these decisions didn't go. I would like to thank you very much for your patience in working on this document. As I said, the finance department did not lack it at the stage of public consultation. They lasted a very, very long time. Work on the bill, which we are actually slowly finalizing, lasted about 2 years. Thank you for all the comments made in the course of the work. All I have to do is refer to the questions that you were kind enough to submit here after the club appearances. The question is whether the prohibition on the provision of advisory services can be implemented at all. In our opinion you can perform and this gives you an additional expected value. Let us not forget that in this Parliament we have already created a number of rules to prohibit the use of aggressive tax optimizations. They give the first positive, good, expected revenue to the state budget. This element, quite in line with trend and trend, an attempt to repair our tax system, which appears in this bill, meets these expectations and seems to be very consistent with the philosophy with which the government is currently approaching the efficiency of our tax system. He is a kind of kind of self-control at the level of entities that will have good quality information about their business transactions, about the consequences of tax law, from the Accounting Act for assessing the reliability of these companies, so it is added value, an exceptional value. I think that such an approach in many cases is also expected by owners and boards, but also in many cases it will avoid a number of controls, but also unpleasant decisions on the application of optimization. Please note that this whole area will also be covered by transfer prices, so this is an additional value with which Europe today, the European Commission, is completely failing, leaving an opportunity for international corporations, companies that use tax optimization in an uncritical way, accounting for various types of costs, reducing the financial result in the countries of Central Europe, seeking to maximise profits and pay taxes in their countries of capital. It's not just our country's syndrome. This is universal, universal syndrome. So I think that this step and this decision that has been made so far in this law is something that gives a really big extra value. As far as the second question is concerned, Mrs Czernow's question about cooperative banks is that it was at the committee's meeting, and he is being considered. I do not rule out that in the course of further work there will be even more reliable reflections in this law, so that we do not need to bring the records to our interpretations, but that at the statutory level - if we make it, in the work of the Senate - it should be placed in such a way that there is no doubt here. Mr Pyzik's question. Is this bill gonna stop creative accounting? I'm sure he's such an element in thought. That is exactly what the directive, the regulation, the EU rules are intended to do and in my opinion this Polish version, our own, which we create, will greatly reduce these possibilities. And the question is whether the principles of independence of auditors are sufficiently well defined in this law. They have been prescribed directly from EU legislation and therefore it seems that they should not be questioned to any extent and will strengthen the credibility, independence of the audit. I guess that's it. It can be added that the audit committees will also be required by this law to determine the conditions of independence that Mrs Borowiak has asked for. So much for answering questions. Once again, I would like to thank all those of you who have been actively working with us on this bill. I know that the project is going back to the Committee on Public Finance, so tomorrow, after the second reading, we will look at the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u457	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Arthur Sobonia. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In a few sentences, I will refer to the words that came up during this debate. I know that colleagues from the Civic Platform have something of an obsession with the SKOKs, but it was possible, Madam, to regulate it in such a way, it was possible in a different way. The fact that we have included part of the SKOKs within the public interest units, because for today they are three units, is a regulation that goes beyond what the European Commission is asking us to do in connection with legislation adopted on the implementation of the directive and regulation, so really suggesting here any other intention is something... We have introduced this scope, which is overregulation in this area, so going back to that is what I said. Mrs Hennig-Kloska said with emphase that the audit performed a control function, someone advised, was an auditor, there was always one who put the stamp on it. Yeah, that's right. And it will continue to be so, and it will be even more in line with this bill, as it gives auditors full independence in this respect, including in relation to other services, advisory services carried out within the same entity, as has been the case so far in which these auditors have worked. On the other hand, as regards doubts, whether this bill will work in the way we want, and whether I have expressed doubts here, then every thinking man always has doubts. We are dealing with entities that are specialised in consulting and audit, so if they can help others, they will certainly also help themselves to adapt to these conditions. Yeah, but these are certainly better conditions for the market than what we've had or what we've got today. And that is the expected impact of the legislation adopted or being drafted, and that is our intention in this regard. I think that further work will allow for an optimal solution for the whole market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u459	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 5 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one is reporting, and therefore I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Szymon Giżyński has the first vote. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to raise a worrying problem, which may be a matter for the authorities of the Sejm to resolve. Therefore, I kindly ask the Honorable Convention of Seniors in the Rules of Procedure to intervene and to induce Members of the Civic Platform to cease their intrusive self-presentation and unspeakable authorage during the session of the Sejm. The party's aggression, self-presentation and authoreklama always comes when screams arise from the PO benches: Communion, communion, commune! By the way, there is only one way for the modern benches and the POs to be calm and even without the complexes to be weathered. Peace, or perhaps the silence of the tomb, will prevail in the modern benches and the POs when their Members will speak only in matters they know about. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u461	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Cicholska, please take the floor. There is no Member. Then please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u462	Dear Marshal, High Seym! April 3rd this year The Primary and Secondary School of the Association of Friends of Catholic Schools in Warzachewka Poland solemnly commemorated the memory of Poles murdered by the Soviets in 1940 in Katyn and the elite of Polish society with the president of Prof. Lech Kaczyński and his wife Maria Kaczyńska, who died in the Smolensk catastrophe in 2010. In the hallway of the school there was a commemorative plaque containing the land from Katyn and Smolensk with an engraved fragment of the performance of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, who was to announce during the 70th anniversary of the Katyn crime: The Katyn crime will always remind you of the threat of enslavement, destruction of people and nations. The power of a lie. But it will also show that people and nations can choose freedom and defend the truth, even in the most difficult times. The ceremony was accompanied by a moving verbal and musical editing performed by students of the school. Dr. Jarosław Kaczyński sent a letter to the organizers and participants of the event to unveil the plaque. He wrote in it, among others.: We cannot forget those who fought for Poland's freedom under any circumstances. Remembering them, passing on the tradition of struggles for independence is our civic and patriotic duty, our commitment to those who sacrificed their lives for their homeland. Such a sense of duty was followed by those who flew to Smolensk on the morning of 10 April 2010 to worship the murdered in Katyn on behalf of the Republic of Poland. So that someone could predict that Katyń would again demand Polish blood, that this flight would end in a terrible catastrophe, the greatest national tragedy in the postwar history of Poland. 96 people died in it, including my sleep. brother, president of Poland Lech Kaczyński, my sleep. sister-in-law Maria Kaczyńska and many of my friends. They're all down at the station. Death in the service of their homeland brought them together with their predecessors - those who fought for Poland and worked for Poland during our history. With all my heart I thank all those who contributed to bringing the land from Katyn and Smolensk, the creation of a memorial plaque and the celebration of today. As a member of this land, I also thank the school director, Ms.Ewie Adamczyk, and the teachers, for this valuable initiative shaping the attitudes of children and young people, building love for their homeland, respecting history and indicating authority. It is important that the Polish school also raises young patriots in addition to teaching. The School of the Association of Friends of Catholic Schools in Warzachewka Polska raises its students in a manner worthy of imitation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u463	Thank you, Member. And Mr Norbert Obricki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u464	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Together with the signing of the act of the Roman Declaration on the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, which initiated the construction of the European Community, we close with a certain buckle the existence of Poland in the European Union. This was a time that was clearly beneficial for us. Access to the common EU market, the possibility of free movement of capital and citizens within the EU borders and cohesion funds and structural funds - all contributed to Poland becoming a country that until recently was given as an example of success achieved shortly after accession, for an example of a country which, based on democratic rule of law, makes rational decisions, develops the economy and is able to face even global economic crises. But nothing is given once and for all. As the great Polish patriot and diplomat, Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Government of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, said before without a small 10 years ago, Prof. Bronisław Geremek, quote: The state which we treated as a common good is treated as a spoil to be taken over by the rulers. Freedom and independence, to which we have opened the way, is not accompanied by a sense of solidarity. The insults and arguments fill the political scene and ruin the citizen's confidence in power. The institutions that should uphold the law become an instrument in the hands of the rulers and there are dangerous accusations that they are being abused. We need to clear Poland, Polish politics of filth, fierceness, hatred. End of quote. Unfortunately, the nationalist attitudes that Europe considered to belong to the past have flourished again. Our homeland, Poland, is not free from this either. In honour of the authors of our European success, all the presidents of the Republic of Poland, prime ministers and foreign ministers involved in the process of Polish integration in the European Union, I appeal to the rulers not to waste this capital on empty disputes and prove something that is undeniable for a long time. Poland is and can continue to be the subject of European policy-making. However, there is a need for intensive dialogue with our neighbours in the European Union not only within the Visegrad Group or the vague idea of the Intermarine, but also, and perhaps above all, with the countries of the European avant-garde. Ideological and historical prejudices must be rejected and the format of the Weimar Triangle, the guarantor of cooperation and security of the European Union should be revived. A strong and solidarity European Union is in the vital interest of Poland. Europe is our common future, a guarantee of the security and prosperity of its inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u465	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Catherine Chechara, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am very pleased to inform you that Katarzyna Sperczyńska from Akarszyc, a small town in Opole region in Nysa County, is among the elite of 15 young people from all over the world who started their studies at the New York Film Academy. Katarzyna Sperczyńska took a holiday course at the New York Academy, where she started a 2-year musical and acting conservatory at the end of January this year. Earlier she graduated from the Academy of Music in Katowice in the vocal and acting department where she studied opera singing. However, her whole adventure with music and later with acting began at the Second Degree State Music School in Nysa, where she also finished her opera singing. Her adventure with the New York Film Academy began in the UK, and more specifically in London, where she was also organized for this very academy of interrogations. Catherine knew that only a dozen people would get to the direction she was so interested in. Nevertheless, she did not give up and volunteered for these hearings. After a week of interrogation, she was informed that she had qualified for a four-week course that allowed her to see how these studies looked like. Further hearings were conducted after the course. Kasia was then fascinated by her talent as an examiner, so she received a scholarship to pay 30% of the cost of further education. In one of the interviews she said: The New York Film Academy is my first step on a global scale towards fulfilling my higher goal - being a guide in this difficult career especially for young Poles, being an inspiration, that someone I lacked. As you can see, he's not just looking at his own career. He also does this because he wants to be an example, hope for others not to give up and do everything they can to achieve their goals, to fulfill their dreams. This is extremely important, especially for young people. Katarzyna Sperczyńska wants to be a kind of inspiration for young Poles. Her attitude shows not only strong character and perseverance, but also civic concern and patriotism, which, in my opinion, is admirable. It is driven primarily by determination, ambition and great desire to achieve their desired goal. He wants to be a better man every day. New York film school is considered by many world-renowned directors and film producers to be the best film school based primarily on practice. Students from all over the world attend it. It is a prestigious academy where the most talented young people from all over the world learn. As she admits: This school teaches very comprehensively, apart from typically acting, vocal and dance elements, she teaches behavior against the camera, mastery on stage, casting, show business, etc. Catherine's been dreaming of playing a musical for years. And her dream is about to come true. As a result of very hard work and long preparations now realizes its dream. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate her and to wish her newer and more success in realizing her dream and further career on an acting-vocal path. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u467	Thank you. Mr Jack Kurzepa, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Great Community of the Hosts of the Polish Village - Ladies and gentlemen of the Sołtysi! It so happens that a few days ago we celebrated the feast of the Council, and probably many of us, messengers and Members, had the opportunity to participate in numerous meetings throughout Poland, during which we bowed down before you, village owners, leaders, who very often perform an incredibly ungrateful role connected with the fact that you are, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, on the front line. It so happens that, with regard to the municipal contributions due or the financial burden due to the State, this news is carried by the chiefs and for this they get beaten up. They're getting even bigger punches for having to enforce that money. Therefore, this is an incredibly ungrateful role. On the other hand, the chiefs are very careful, honest and patient in fulfilling it. I think it's out of this place, out of the Seymary, to thank you for this effort, to acknowledge the importance of all that you do. I was thinking that the village chief is somebody, a figure. And I'm sure we all know that we are. But to be chief, it's not such a mess that anyone on the shore can become chief. You are recommended, elected by the community of residents, accepted by the Uncle or Mayor, because you have certain qualities, because you are someone you can trust, trust in the care of the life of the village community. And that's what I'm thinking, and I'm going to tell you about it as a resident of a small village on Lubuskie land, a village of Marcinowice, who with incredible respect, but also, I'm going to say, jealously looks at his chief, Mr.John Taciak, who served as the Chief for 28 years. It's been out of service for some time now as the Chief of Staff, but 28 years is an incredible long time. Therefore, my village and Mr. Jan the Chief Daddy's one story. And it was accompanied by and accompanied by the history of Mrs Jadzia Sółtysowa Taciakowa, who had to support her husband and is also a legend of my village. He'll always talk to everyone, he'll look at everyone, he'll knock, he'll always go by whenever he needs to, but he'll also encourage some community action. Whether it is during the holiday season, now, the coming Easter first prepares its hut, its bypass, and we, the village, look at this model, do likewise. And, of course, you know very well that when you go to church on Sunday, one looks through the fence to the other, how much bypass and rubber is arranged, how many windows washed out, how many trees cut. Because that's how it is in the village. And I think that the role of the Councillor or the Council is not only related to bonding, but also to subsidiarity, advice, life wisdom. I'm sure these are qualities that don't come by themselves, you have to work them out, and you have to be a good person. I was thinking that many of you, the chiefs and the chiefs, are just good people, patient, hardworking, modest. Therefore, I have the impression that it is worth asking all of us, villagers, for more respect and respect for the Chief of Staff, for us to be willing to take the initiatives he is offering us. The village council is a figure, you have to take care of it, but you also have to be happy that it is what it is. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u469	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On Friday, it will finally come to the court of the present government, which for many Members is much worse than the overseer of serfs, because instead of spending a pleasant time, for example on friendly social talks, maybe even on tour of the capital, they are accused of tedious work on increasingly new laws, changing the law, because it is supposedly wrong, they must work evenings and nights, and sometimes long debate, about horror, even on Fridays, because the current rulers did not like the fact that the state could only be theoretical. As if it wasn't enough that everything was only in the paperwork. It's cheaper, and it takes less effort. Is it not better to live as adjectives light, easy, and pleasant than those marked by effort, phrasing, and daily thereafter? Why didn't these octopuses like it? They're so rude to the members of the previous government that they've consumed them. Well, I guess they didn't see them. It even looks ugly, at least as ugly as spiders. Sea predators who know what's good won't even look at it, probably feeling disgusted. So what kind of attraction was it to eat? You were a minister, they told you to eat it, dreaming in the spirit that when you get home, you're gonna eat it with a regular turkey pâté. So that saying, "Their octopus, and people's fig with poppy is forging reality." With octopus, a fig with poppy is licking fingers. What about the fact that state affairs were handled in cemeteries? Only the advantages: cheaper country, not the Byzantine style, after all this and the electricity does not need to be used up and heated - the ecology itself, easily reached by tram, unnecessary no service car, which is easily damaged. And since the neighborhood was unattractive, things were moving faster than they were in government offices, and it was easier to get along. Do they mention Elewarr? But it is the same people who claim that people in Poland make little money. And they claim it only now, and yet Elewarru's leadership knew it years ago. And they were pioneers who, on their own experimental body, began to fight this phenomenon, finally paying themselves well, like Uncle Sam. And their bosses understood that, not making them pay their hard-earned money, of course, because pioneer wisdom was a collective one. That's what they say today that the state can't be petty. They have forgotten that for many years everyone has known that, like the Church, we are faithful, so the state is us. So the former rulers knew that, well, maybe not the state, which, as mentioned, was considered theoretical, abstract, but the coalition could not be grandfathered. Hence, its best symbol was gold bars - a symbol of wealth, respect, investment in the future. And that this investment wasn't supposed to apply equally to our entire society, our entire territory? It is nothing that half of Poland is defined in vulgar words. If you wish, Mr. Marshal, I'll fill you in on the minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u471	I don't wish to.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u472	After all, if half the country was supposed to be worse, the other half would be better than it is. So this charge isn't worth anything either. And they laugh so much that the predecessors started building a nuclear power plant. Tough topic, they could've gotten their heads together. Not every head will turn hundreds of thousands into an account. And they're so pretentious, they don't even know where that nuclear power plant is. And that's what the same people who claim to think about state security say. What if this information got in the wrong hands? Ladies and gentlemen, the King is naked. But which one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u473	Thank you, sir. And as the last statement, Mr Piotr Pyzik will make.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On those days when we celebrate the 77th anniversary of the Katyn crime, it seems that the entire mystery around this crime is explained, and that is not true. Many secrets were taken with him to the grave and to the NKVD archives by a man named Zarubun, who interrogated our soldiers in the Koziel camp. In his further intelligence career, he seemed to have played two very important roles: one very important for the fate of World War II and the other very important for us. And this second role is his action, which, it seems, is probably still going on today. The first role is spring 1941, where it suddenly turns out that Stalin, who is informed from all over the world that there will be a German-Russian war, does not take any practical action except one that sends Zarubina and another NKVD officer to Yugoslavia. The result of this visit is the war between Yugoslavia and Germany, i.e. the attack on Soviet Russia is postponed by 2 and 3 months. What are the consequences of this, let us leave the historians to consider. I would like to talk about another aspect of his activity. A year and a half after his involvement in the Katyn crime, this criminal was appointed by another criminal named Joseph Stalin as head of the NKVD delegation in Washington. The effects of his work have been published today by the U.S. services, specifically the FBI, in volumes which are defined in a single word - Venona, Venony Act. This man organized a nuclear network, a spy network, and as a result the Soviets quickly acquired this weapon and became a nuclear power, which caused history to turn out the way it did. On the other hand, it is not said that in the autumn of 1941, the important task of Zarubin was to influence through agents of influence, e.g. by Mr Bolesław Gebert, but about him at another time, and other activists of the so-called. The Communist Party of the United States to the American elite at the time, so that there would be no agreement between the United States and the Nazi Germans, of course, such an agreement that would be detrimental to the Soviet Union. In fact, it was possible to say that the catalogue, although very, very shortened, of this gentleman's actions is already closed. Nothing more wrong. Since October 1941, when he appears, of course under a changed name, in the United States, he has been a very active participant in various activities of Poles living in the United States. To this day in many family albums some so-called. Polonus can find your agent's smiling, pretty hairy face, so to speak. Well, the consequence of that is that to this day, something called the illustration of Polonia, the illustration of Polish organizations, has not been done. Therefore, from day to day, week to week, month to month, when the IPN files are opened and gradually opened and not only, it turns out that the object of the action was not only Polish organizations in the occupied country, but above all, whether or not with greater intensity, more Polish organizations especially in the United States. It was about creating a network of influence agents who will regulate the policy of the United States not only in relation to Poland, already the Soviet one, but in general to the entire Soviet camp. But that's a whole different story. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-05-sejm-39-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I therefore manage the adjournment until tomorrow, i.e. By 6 April 2017, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you all very much. I wish the Parliamentarians, the workers a quiet night. Good night. I wish the Marshal's guards a peaceful night, too. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 31]]
