ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u1	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question and a request for your marshal. Two months ago, the President of the Republic vetoed two laws: a law on amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and a law on the Supreme Court. [[Voice from the room: But we know all this.]] From the media, we learn from the media that there are already two new draft laws in the Sejm, while the Marshal has still not presented a schedule for the President's vetoes. He's coming to a psychic situation so he doesn't say ridiculous. The Marshal of the Sejm directs two draft laws to the Legislative Office without considering the President's veto. It may turn out that if the President's veto is not rejected, and this is, judging by the statements of some of the representatives of the governing group, very possible, it makes no sense to work on new draft laws. It may also turn out - even more curial - that if the parliamentary roller adopts two laws in one night sitting and then the parliamentary majority will anger the President of the Republic and will not reject his veto... What can happen? It may turn out that we will have two parallel worlds: the world of laws that were adopted in July, non-constitutional, and the world of other non-constitutional laws that may be adopted in the days. That's why I have a big request and an appeal to your marshal. Before we proceed with the new laws, I would ask and appeal that you put two vetoes of the President of the Republic to the vote. Let us treat both the High House and the President of the Republic with due respect, not as an element of the puzzle and your political game. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u2	Thank you, sir. However, Commissioner, I would ask you to speak on this subject under the rules of procedure. [[But the question was, Marshal.]] [[But it was for you.]] A formal request may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. For the sake of information for your Members: I remind you that the veto of the President of the Republic against these laws has been handed over to the Committee on Justice and is being considered there. And to the Member who is a member of the Committee on Justice, I would also like to ask - please address your questions there. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor. I'm just asking for a formal application in regular mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My formal motion concerns precisely this meeting of the Sejm. I move, Mr. Marshal, to interrupt the session, during which the Marshal will call the Senior Convention and make changes to the schedule of this meeting. Explaining, Mr. Marshal. At this meeting, the Sejm is to vote on the request of the Civic Platform to set up a committee of inquiry on the Wołomin SkOK case. Unfortunately, the Marshal held in the freezer a request from the Civic Platform to set up a committee of inquiry on the whole SKOK sector for over a year, and now the Marshal wants to vote on Friday to complete the agenda. Does that mean you're expecting the Sejm to sit on Saturday, marshal? Well, I can't imagine the PiS Members rejecting the motion for a committee of inquiry on the Volomin SkOK case. After all, the collapse of this SKOK is 2.5 billion PLN from the pocket of the Polish taxpayer. Where is your sensitivity to fraud in the public finance sector? [[Applause]] Behind the SKOK Volomin as dominoes fell other cash, totaling 11 cash, and this is 5 billion PLN from the public finance sector. And the reports of the Financial Supervision Commission clearly show that in the SKOK sector business, politics, media and money are very dangerous. Mr. Marshal, I hope the marshal will give the Members of the PiS a chance. There may be some righteous people who want to explain fraud, extortion, and crimes in the SKOK sector. Remember, over 51% of Poles think this is the biggest scandal of the Third Republic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he wants a committee of inquiry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u4	I must consider whether this is a formal proposal, but if I qualify this as a formal proposal, we will vote on it at hours. 12, in the voting block, because there are a few other votes besides a vote of distrust. But, Madam, I remind you that on September 23rd, you received a letter from me stating that the Legislative Office and the Sejm Analysis Office have asked for a supplement to the justification of this resolution, and so far there is no reply. As a result, I can't run outside of the procedural deadline... After 4 months, I can decide what to do next, 4 months, not a year. If you would like to fill in, answer the doubts of the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legislative Office, I would like to make a statement on the reasons for the appointment of the committee in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to keep these proceedings secret, because perhaps there is something secret in the fact that the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not respond to the new education law in Ukraine. Perhaps Minister Waszczykowski would like to present in this meeting, in a secret, private way, information to the High House, why the President of Romania cancels his visit to Kiev, why the head of the Hungarian Ministry talks about blocking the aspirations of Europe's Ukraine, why Hungary is taking the floor in the UN General Assembly on a new education bill striking national minorities in Ukraine, and the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is stubbornly silent and refuses to comment on the questions of the media. What's going on? What's going on in this direction is some kind of horrendous impossibility, quoting a classic? What happens that Poland does not seek the rights of Poles in Ukraine? Why does it not respond to scandalous regulations, which also impact on the opportunities for the development and continuation of Poles in the East? I'm making that conclusion because it might be some kind of secret knowledge that the Foreign Office has. Budapest doesn't own it, Bucharest doesn't own it. You spoke so much about Budapest on the Vistula River in opposition times. Well, my God, I'm no longer appealing for Budapest, at least Bucharest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u6	Mr President, I cannot classify your speech as a formal application. First of all, you have asked for a case that is not on the agenda, and the formal proposals are a reminder of the paragraph. Article 2 184 may relate only to matters which are, I quote, the subject of the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. Secondly, I inform you that the motion for secrecy is made by the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Sejm may decide to do so at the request of the Sejm Bureau or of a group of at least 30 Members. So that this is an unauthorized request and I would ask for correspondence in a different way to clarify this case, certainly interesting. The formal proposal by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, is yet to be tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in formal application mode, so I'm in some mode. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) applies for a recess in connection with this meeting... [[I recommend school...]] ...and that during this break, either the Marshal convenes the Seniors' Convention and completes the agenda, or the Prime Minister gives explanations to the Members, because at the previous meeting we asked a number of questions about inaccuracies in connection with the establishment of the Polish National Foundation and the actions taken by the Polish National Foundation. None of these questions have been answered. Except that we have very serious doubts about the ethical operation of this foundation, because we think it's a party foundation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u8	Mr President, this issue is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! You allowed me to say things to Mr Winnick about Bucharest, Budapest. Let me justify a formal request. [[He wouldn't let me talk.]] There have been a number of questions that have not been answered, ethically speaking, but there has also been a violation of the law as regards this foundation. Namely, from the Act of 21 August 1997 on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, it follows that Mr Piotr Matczuk and Ms Anna Plakwicz could not be members of the boards, supervisory boards or audit committees of commercial law companies and were members of the management board of the company, while being employees of KPRM. The Prime Minister has not answered this violation once, but you have sent me one of the most outstanding Members of Law and Justice, Marek Suski, who has submitted a proposal to the ethics committee, which concerns me because I have asked questions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marek!]] [[No, not for that.]] On the other hand, in the proposal that Mr Suski made, there is no mention that I said that Minister Terlecki lied about it, Marshal Terlecki simply lied. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask all of you to do so, because on the one hand there is an articulate wording, an articulate formula: a request for a break - if that was the end of it, this is a formal request - and then there is a justification, which is not a formal request, which justifies that the earlier formula cannot be accepted as a formal proposal. [[That's your assessment.]] I therefore address you: if you want me to accept a proposal as a formal application, please read the Rules of Procedure carefully and speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[You won't shut our mouths, Marshal.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u11	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Maritime Economy and Inland Shipping together with the National Defence Commission - at 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17, - Public Finance - hour. 18, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 8:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Reforms of the Justice dimension - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 13.30, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Medical marijuana - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Nuclear energy - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Follow-up to Human and Citizen Rights Follow-up - h.m. 17, - Joint meeting of Parliamentary Teams: solving problems of the inhabitants of the district-dominant Poland and for the Decent, Community and Inclusive Organization in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Recovering of Independence by Poland - hour. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u12	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgiel (prints 1838 and 1842). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! On behalf of a group of more than 100 parliamentarians, Members of this Sejm representing all opposition parliamentary clubs, I present a request for the cancellation of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, precisely, to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel. At the time of the previous examination of the proposal - a summary one, because this proposal, due to the need to maintain the seriousness of the situation, we have withdrawn it at the moment - there have been accusations addressed to the applicants, to the various political groups that signed under it, that it is a political proposal. Well, I would like to say, quoting the constitution, that politically such a proposal has its legitimacy in the structures of a democratic state, as the article says. 95 of the Constitution - The Sejm exercises control over the activities of the Council of Ministers, art. 157 Constitution - Members of the Council of Ministers have joint and several responsibility for the activities of the Council of Ministers or, finally, the Article. 159 Constitution - The Sejm can express to the Minister a vote of distrust. A request for a vote of distrust may be submitted by at least 69 Members, so this proposal meets both the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the constitutional requirements, and is therefore included in the nature of our democratic state. As I said, the proposal is signed by nearly 120 Members, not from one group, not from two groups, but from all political groups that are on the opposition side. So the allegations of the politicality of this proposal are absolutely unfounded. In addition, consider that Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, as well as all the ministers of this government and of previous governments, have been and have been appointed in the atmosphere of political consensus by the parliamentary majority. After all, Minister Jurgiel was not appointed as a result of his winning the National Agricultural Knowledge Olympics or the competition for agricultural skills, nor because he has any special qualifications to serve as Minister of Agriculture, but was appointed by a parliamentary majority and has this function. And if it's full, we'll be talking in a minute. I would also like to make it clear that this proposal will not apply to Krzysztof Jurgiel. This is a person who is quite commonly liked in the Polish Parliament and probably some of those Members who signed up for the appeal of Minister Jurgiel, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] If he was referring to the cancellation of Krzysztof Jurgel from some function in a social club, she would not have signed that motion. But we signed because we judge Krzysztof Jurgel as Minister of Agriculture and we judge him badly. So, ladies and gentlemen, what will this motion look like today? He's not gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u14	Excuse me, sir. I address Mr Kaleta. Mr Sejm, don't turn your back on the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[I'm sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: Member Dolata too.]] Continue, sir. [[I'm so sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u15	I will try to make this request different than when the hero of today, a few years ago, applied for the cancellation of Minister Kalemba, which took him more than six hours. I will neither break the record of Minister Jurgiel, nor go near Fidel Castro, who had similar speeches in his length to the speeches of Minister Jurgiel. So the speech will be substantive, but with political threads for the reasons I spoke about at the beginning. The justification will be substantive, as ministers are evaluated in democratic countries, among others. with regard to their own announcements, and this six-hour speech by the Minister from a few years ago was also a signal of what he intends to do when he comes to serve as Minister of Agriculture. And that's the perfect material for the minister to judge. He said a lot, so there's gonna be a lot of references, there's gonna be a lot of quotes. I would like to say that there is no need for a debate in agriculture today, which will last six to seven hours. Today, in agriculture, we need a dynamic and substantive debate, dynamic and substantive decisions and consensus decisions. Therefore, assuming that - I am unfortunately predicting - today a black scenario for the Polish village may be realized, that Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel will be defended by someone in this Chamber, it is also worth raising a few substantive issues from this speech by Minister Jurgiel, which was a few years ago, and those speeches in which he very often speaks on agricultural matters. Of course, we cannot ignore what was said during the 2015 election campaign, in which farmers trusted the programme, especially the Prime Minister's programme, and today they expect to settle those announcements which were, but also expect to settle what the Minister is doing on a regular basis. The proposal is therefore an expression of concern for the Polish countryside and agriculture. It's not about politics, it's not about one or the other. It is an expression of concern for Polish agriculture and such a expression of concern was followed by those who signed this request. It will also be a clue to the Prime Minister to hear not only what Minister Jurgiel whispers in her ear, but also to hear what the opposition says and what the farmers say. It will also provide guidance for the President to consider whether it is worth going further, making the situation in the Polish countryside worse. There are many questions raised at agricultural meetings, at political meetings: Is there a good time to dismiss Minister Jurgiel today? Does he have any independence in making decisions? Is he neutral in this regard? Is he an authority in this regard? The beginnings of your role as Minister - I will remind you, November 2015 - were quite dynamic, which can no longer be said today. The minister of good change started with the horse stud. He made such a good change that this reform of the Minister did not first withstand the mares that were heavy raining, and it was the mares of great importance in the Arabian horse market. And I don't know if the Minister really said it or not, but at the agricultural committee's meeting, he underestimated the matter, he quoted it. The quote that says that you have underestimated it, because when there was an accusation against you that you had led to the fall of a mare worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, or perhaps even more, you have said, I quote the representative of the agricultural union at the agricultural committee meeting, it is not my vote, it is the Minister who said, "What's up, barely one has died." This is actually an expression of your interest and of the seriousness of this situation. [[Applause]] [[Sir, these are criminal statements of what you're saying.]] Let's move on. [[You're lying!]] And now let's move on. What kind of thing did you do next? [[Get down!]] Of course, in the first place, you've taken care of personnel matters, turning not yours into yours. But there was one thing that made your complex manifest for many years. Namely the case of the bill... I'm gonna talk about the land sale bill. You will allow - I am talking here to all those who have signed this proposal - that there will be some PSL threads, folk threads, because in this respect we have and we have achieved. I will remind the post-war period when the people defended the Polish land and led to the fact that it did not become part of the collectiveization as in all other countries that were in this camp. This is something to be thanked for. This is the achievement of the folk movement in this very difficult period for Poland, when also the folk movement, and Poland were not fully independent. No one else, just us, led to the fact that the Polish land remained in the hands of Polish farmers. Finally, at a later time, when we became a free country when we started to operate on the international stage as a stand-alone entity and when our accession to the European Union was approaching, the Polish People's Party negotiated under very difficult negotiating conditions - which other countries did not do with us in European structures - a 12-year period of protection for Polish land, so that foreigners could not, at that time having market advantage, buy Polish land. You had no part in this. You had no part in this, but on the contrary - many of you were rooting for the conditions of our accession because of your particular political interests to be as bad as possible, because that was the only thing that gave you the chance to come to power at some stage. We defended the Polish land and wrote it down in the accession treaty. They didn't do that, for example. Romanians and today look at how much Romanian land is in the hands of French, German, other foreign capital. Today, fortunately, Polish land is in the great majority in Polish hands. Note what the Polish People's Party has done in this transition period. We've written it down in the Constitution... It was our idea, our project, our motion, the people's voices pushed through, that art. 23 of the Constitution says that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland, in our country is a family farm - with all the consequences, about which in a moment. We were the authors. Finally, we introduced changes in subsequent laws going in this direction to determine the area of the family farm, peasant farm at a level of up to 300 hectares, so that in Poland no years of funding would be created, but so that Polish families, Polish peasants, Polish farmers could manage on good terms. Finally, we also wrote down the possibility of buying state land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for Polish farmers to expand their farms on preferential terms, as we know exactly what many analyses show... You guys should know that, too. There is a publication that defines the state of the Polish village in 2016. You do not agree with this in your thesis, although among the authors there are authorities, which you often invoke and which also advise you on agricultural matters. Guess you don't listen to them. Here is an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of Polish agriculture, as well as a state from 2016, which is very different from the one you presented two years ago. And among others. from this report it follows that in Poland there is an urgent need to change the structure and area of farms towards the expansion of these farms. There is no economist in the world, not even your economist, who would say that the area of the farm has nothing to do with its financial efficiency. So potentially what the farm is larger - to this parameter I said earlier - the profitability of this farm should be higher and the costs should be lower. You guys seem to be lying. Finally, the last phase that really hurt you, the protection of Polish land, when we were able to decide about it, was the law that we adopted at the end of last term, a law which, in its record, put an end to any purchase of land by foreigners. She put barriers in this respect, did not allow a stranger, from the outside, to buy Polish land. But this law did not restrict the marketing of private Polish land. This law clearly stated that the state land is to be permanently managed by the property of Polish farmers. By the property of Polish farmers. This land should be in Polish hands. It also offered the possibility to borrow this land on very preferential terms, for 2% per year over a period of up to 15 years. Because we believe, as we thought in the past years - what is written in the Constitution - that this family farm is to rule the Polish land. Not someone else. If a family farm wants to buy this land, it is necessary for this farmer to make it possible for this owner, not to keep the land in the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources. You changed that bill in a completely different direction. But it's about her. This bill, surprisingly, has received strong support from the parliamentary majority. All parliamentary clubs back then in the Sejm supported this. Surprisingly - I said, looking towards you, because you also supported this project. Minister Jurgel supported the vote and Minister Jurgel was in favour. The project was followed by Prime Minister Szydło. The vote - as a result - was in favour of this project. Not much, Mr. President Kaczyński was also behind this project. And yet, little more than that, Mr Duda - then your President Duda, today I don't know if your project has signed and this bill has come into force. And what did you do with this law, which was restrictive for foreigners and which was not restrictive, but was a privilege for Polish farmers? Well, you, having this complex that so far you have done nothing about the protection of Polish land, even though you have had the opportunity many times, because some of you, too, in power or in power, wanted to prove yourself with something. But you also wanted to prove yourself to your constituents, because you have formulated such a slogan that there is a mass buyout of Polish land, which will not be there in a moment, and the bill needs to be amended. You have stopped ours - ours, yours, ours - you have not allowed it to enter into force and you have presented your project. It is difficult even to refer to this project in words that would be civilized words. In the first version of this project you assassinated the sacred law of inheritance in the Polish countryside and Poland. That's right, you know it. It was in the first project. Someone who wanted to give the land to his son had to ask the agency first if he could give it to him. If the agency said yes, yes, and if she said no, she could have taken over by herself. Similar records were made regarding the right of farmers to sell and purchase this land. So you've prepared a project in which you wanted to prove that you're better. As if to alleviate these complexes, which result from the inability to act in favour of Polish agriculture in the previous period or inability to do so. And you have introduced a law which is only better in one thing than ours when it comes to the sale of land to foreigners, namely, you have stopped the sale of the land of the state at all. And now the question is whether this form of lease that you think is better than the form of ownership - about which we say it is better - has its reflection e.g. in the Northern Lands, in the Western Lands, the so-called. The Recovered Lands. I am not going to develop this, just think about whether God will give some change in Poland or on the international stage a better form of protection of this land, the Polishness of the land would be the property of Polish farmers, or whether the better form is the lease that you prefer. [[Applause]] In our opinion, this land should definitely be placed in the hands of Polish farmers. You're modernising, you're amending this bill, and you don't want to admit the mistakes you've made in it, but it's going slow. And what is written in this book, where your economists also say that there should be a process of expanding a medium-sized farm in Poland, because it is to be more effective, is to be more competitive with external markets: this fundamental process, one of the most important processes necessary in the Polish countryside, the more you have inhibited. And it's not a small thing anymore. This is a fundamental matter, because this is what the constitution says, this is what the state's right, the Polish state's right. I'm talking about, for example, the Northlands and Western lands and so-called lands. recovered. And I am talking about what is good for Polish agriculture in the long term. You've slowed down the farm enlargement process, and you can see that now. The statistics are already talking about it. Take a look at the stats. Not only notaries, review the statistics of GUS, which say that this process of expanding the average farm in Poland has been slowed down. You've reduced the rotation of land between farmers, the effect is the same. You've reduced the lending capacity of farmers because banks don't want this land to secure loans and help farmers to upgrade their production base. This important process in the Polish village, necessary, which has been implemented for years, has been slowed down by this. And of course this thing is extremely important: this Polishness of the Recovered Lands in our understanding has been limited by you. Maybe not yet, but I hope this time doesn't come. And what else did she record? Because many times in these debates in previous years you have said that a large part of this state land is being robbed, managed, leased. farmers from the Marshal. So I understand that someone in Warsaw leases this land, takes subsidies, crops, makes profits. Even if there was something wrong with it, I have a question: What have you done with it these two years? How many of these agreements did you say to the Marshal farmers? And now about the effectiveness of your actions in protecting Polish land, what you pride yourselves on. The Minister repeatedly claims that he protects Polish land. In fact, in this brief act of defence of the Minister at the Sejm when the original proposal was to be submitted, the Prime Minister also spoke about it. Please pay attention, here I will not refer to experts from PSL, Modern, Kukiz, Civic Platform or someone else, but I will refer to your expert, your minister, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. The case is that, in 2015, when we were partly still in charge, 420 hectares of land were placed in the hands of foreigners on the basis of a decision. 420 ha of land. [[What's that? What land? It's not agricultural.]] And we're about to develop that, Minister, and you're gonna be explaining it, too. 420 ha of Polish land. If not agricultural, the question is: What? [[Maybe an investment?]] Maybe it's even worse than non-agricultural land. And now let's look at what happened next. What is the analysis of Polish land defenders for 2016? 3200 ha hits the hands of foreigners. Let's compare these two numbers. Who protects the Polish land more from foreigners? [[Applause]] Did you, when you sold 3200, or did we, when we sold 420? And to put it graphically. What is this 3200 ha? Given that the average farm in Poland has about 10 ha, you have sold 300 Polish farms, 300 Polish farms, such an area. Minister, we'll get to that in a minute. You've sold 300 Polish farms, which means you've sold out foreign investors... [[We need to find out who bought it and how much.]] ...30 medium-sized Polish villages. You can't protect yourselves from these numbers. [[Applause]] And I want to ask, who bought 388 ha of this number, Minister Babalski? Who bought it, Minister Jurgiel? Who bought it, Prime Minister Szydło? The Germans bought it. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Those bad Germans bought this 388 ha. Now, something interesting about the housing initiative, because not only did you sell agricultural land, you not only sold this investment land, but you also sold apartments, and utility premises. So how many housing and utility premises have you sold to foreigners this year 2016? Well, you sold $650,000. m2. [[Disgraceful!]] $650,000. m2. Please confront this with your ideas for building these municipal, state-owned apartments from the national program. So how much did you sell? About $9,000. apartments, medium-sized apartments of Polish families. And this is defence, your defence of Polish land, Polish premises. It is a real effect of protecting your Polish land. And you can't avoid that, you can't avoid responsibility for that. You fight foreigners, tenants, buyers. Seventy-one thousand today. ha land held by the agency is leased by foreigners. 71,000. ha. You haven't made those agreements in two years. You did not allocate this for Polish tenants. 27,000. ha lease foreign companies. And again, who's the most? [[Who leased them?]] Lithuanian users? French users? German users rent this land. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] The bad Germans. Oh, you just signed $6.5,000. Ha from the Agency... [[Who leased it? Who leased it?]] ... Farm property, and you want to pass it on to the National Property Resource. By the way, as you presented this bill, you were talking about the fact that agricultural land is inviolable, agricultural land must be defended as independence. It's all true, but then why are you dusting it quietly and why aren't you doing it? And why, for example. transfer to a national resource land that should produce and is a strategic value? Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, because the question arises as to how to qualify those laws which you have introduced as projects, how to qualify those laws which have become applicable law, one can carry out such a categorization on the laws: good, maybe I will find such, improving the legal system in Poland, not bringing anything, such is the most, and harmful to agriculture, these are few, and harmful to Poland. I dare say, and I say this on behalf of the applicants, that your law on the sale of land is harmful to Polish agriculture as opposed to this law, which was adopted in 2015. [[Applause]] And what's the reference here to the Minister? 'Cause we're not gonna cancel the PiS club. The Minister had a huge part in the adoption of this bill because either he silently agreed to it, or even as he spoke, he spoke in defence of it. Another thing that will hurt you, because it is as harmful as the Polish Land Protection Act. Here I will refer again to the 1970s, when, at the initiative of the people in the Polish legal system, it was finally possible for farmers to obtain pensions from the state budget and to receive a contribution by the farmer if he went to a doctor, he became ill. That wasn't once. Once a farmer was at the mercy of his children, those to whom he gave the land. This is the work of this folk movement during this difficult period, which we are not ashamed of. Namely you presented the so-called. KRUS law, it was called KRUS law, which, within the meaning of many farmers, was supposed to cause what you talked about in the election campaign, that agricultural pensions, care benefits, etc. will be radically raised, all that is in the catalogue of activities of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. What really happened in this bill, and what were the consequences? You only exchanged this bill with the staff. Not only did you throw out those who are from the PSL, you turned them into yours, not just those who were from the Platform, from the SLD, but you threw away, and there's a lot of evidence, even those who worked in this system for over 20 years and did it well. The only reason you kicked out is because these crowds of yours needed to pay back for their election work. Please also pay attention to one thing, which I will also talk about in subsequent laws, the pace and time of your presentation of the projects in the Sejm and the quality of these projects. This project, this first staff law, supposedly concerning the KRUS, but really concerning the real estate agency, the main commercial inspector, the chief plant protection officer, the chief veterinarian, adopted on 15 December 2015, a month after the elections. It was probably in the file of the Prime Minister or Minister Jurgiel as a bill. It's a pity you didn't present other projects so quickly. Of course, you have the right to personal changes. No one's questioning that. Every minister, every prime minister chooses their own staff, and so do you. But there must be logic in all of this, and first of all there must be responsibility. It is difficult to understand the situation in some counties, where in place of employees in management positions with economic education, economic and agricultural education, there are journalists, political scientists - these are many, philosophers - these are very many, psychologists - there are also a lot of them, etc., etc. We've got results. How do I assess this personnel bill in those categories I mentioned earlier? Whatever, harmful? On a border that is indifferent and harmful. In fact, it is difficult for those people who have lost their jobs, and it is difficult for those who have been entrusted with this job. Because I don't think there's a comfortable person who's never done anything in his life in the service of agriculture and suddenly has to run a county institution or even a central institution. And that's how you crowned your staff changes with the horse racing bill. I'm not gonna talk about those horses anymore. I'm not gonna torture the Minister. Even there you made changes, and the horse as it is, everyone can see. Another bill announced by you, the Hunting Damage Act. It was one of the foundations of your election campaign, one of the foundations of your promises that this is the system, and here we partially agree, the valuation of hunting damage to farmers was an unfair system. Because: animals owned by the State Treasury have done damage, hunting circles which, on behalf of the State Treasury, regulate this population, determine the amount of losses and bear financial responsibility. As you know very well, there were projects in the previous term that were supposed to fix it, which were supposed to change it. And maybe you guys did a little bit of fighting your own complex, too. Not as fast as the Human Resources Act, because it was only January 15, 2016, so you guys were running a little late here, because you had to settle the polls first. You've even prepared quite a project that was designed to create a compensation fund, to power it from the state budget by hunting circles or by hunters, voivodeships, who estimated their losses. That was quite a reporting system. And it was some kind of pressure on hunting wheels to better pursue the hunting economy and better approach those who are injured. And what happened to that bill? Well, that worked out well, and we all supported that bill. This law was signed by the President and it would seem that one of your foundations in the election campaign you implemented for the Polish village, for Polish farmers. What about the real situation? This bill is not in practice. There is no fund, there is no budget compensation for farmers, finally everything is on the old rules. It just seems like you're watching public television, I don't know if that's the right word, especially agricultural magazines, that wild boars just stopped screaming. I don't know, for fear of who or for fear of what, because wild boars are still snouting, I want to tell you, even more than in those days when you That's what you picked up. The question is why you tricked the farmers again: and then, and then, and then, which is now. You have prepared a second bill, let's call it the Hunting Act, because it also dealt with the issue of the massively spreading ASF at that time. This law went to the joint committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, and the subcommittee. One of the more active members of the Law and Justice Club dynamically approached the implementation of this law, to proceed over it, and all of this ended after two meetings of the subcommittee. The question is why. Why? Whose conflict is this? We know whose conflict it is. This is a conflict between Minister Jurgiel and Minister Szyszko, a conflict about who has higher ratings and better support in the centre in Nowogrodzka and perhaps in the centre in Toruń. This is a conflict which today causes the ASF to spread, that the wild snouts, like the rudders, and farmers receive compensation at the same level and in the same shape as before. But do farmers care that Minister Jurgiel is arguing with Minister Szyszko? It doesn't interest farmers. So get the project ready as soon as possible, and we'll back it up, or get on with the project that it is. If you don't do it, we will do it, because it can't go on like it is, because you're not only preserving what you picked up as bad again, but you're making a lot of hunting wheels do not really know what they're going to do today. And the next thing - it seems that from the category of those very embarrassing to you - about African swine fever. How did Minister Jurgiel find the development of this disease in Poland? Well, it wasn't so bad at the time, Mr. Minister knows it well, there were three ASF outbreaks among pigs in Poland, of which probably two of the three included single pieces - they were single pieces. What was the extent of this disease's development? Two counties in one voivodship. And so it lasted quite long as the Minister was already in office - as he was already in office. [[Too bad you don't start with two boars.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] And now let's move on. What was the situation in 2017? 52 ASF outbreaks. These are data from the period when I was first to present this request on behalf of the applicants. 52 fires. In a minute, the next day, 53 fires. The next day 54 outbreaks among pigs. What's the situation today? What it looks like today, I don't know, I know what it was like yesterday - 92 ASF fires. [[Voice from the room: 99.]] Excuse me, 99 ASF fires. The question arises - and in a moment there will be some quotes from Minister Jurgiel and his very active deputies at that time, because today this activity is slightly less visible - what happened during this period. On 28 August 2014, a discussion was held in the Sejm on the situation related to ASF. 28 August 2014 The main prosecutor was the hero of my speech today by Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, who was then very cleverly accused of running around this room, then a Member, Jacek Bogucki, today Minister Jacek Bogucki. Today, Minister Bogucki runs slower in this room than then uphill, and it's quite difficult for him to get out of government benches here and say something normal. Somehow this temper of Minister Bogucki has cooled down, and I'd say his voice is a little different. Maybe it's related to fatigue, as he suggested himself, that he hasn't had a vacation in two years and that the ASF can't deal with it the way it should. Other Members were also active, not only Bogucki, but we should end up on these two heroes. Of course, there were accusations at the time, but there were also proposals, including one particular proposal, a very important proposal. Let me remind you, three ASF fires. Well, the Minister suggested to the Minister of Agriculture at the time to resign, because he led to the fact that there are three outbreaks in Poland. So what kind of honorary approach would we expect today, Minister Jurgel, when there are 99 outbreaks among pigs and 500 wild boars? In the range of these 500 there have been cases of several pieces, so this is a large number of more than 500 pieces. Then the Minister for Agriculture, no, not the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, chairman of the agricultural committee, was thundering on this speaker... [[The voice from the room: No, don't exaggerate.]] ...well, maybe he wasn't thundering, talking loudly and asking the following questions. Stenographic record: Why isn't the government taking the ASF case seriously in Poland? Three fires. Secondly, why there is no eradication programme ASF in Poland? There were three fires. Why was there no full compensation and compensation for the resulting damage and no proper reduction in the wild boar population? Three fires, 14 wild boars. Is there a forward-looking programme to combat ASF in Poland? Are these questions up to date? [[Voice from the room: Absolutely.]] If they're up to date, answer them. It will soon be three years since that debate and what the results are, I just presented. It is also worth recalling other statements by the Minister, who even prepared an analysis on the fight against ASF at the time, in which he stated - because today you are often speaking in the defence of the Minister for Agriculture that it was a failure by the ministers of PSL, coalitions who did not strangle ASF in the bud - a quote from Minister Jurgiel: in connection with the ASF crisis, during which veterinary inspections showed a complete lack of professionalism and harmful overzealousness... You said then, Minister, that the actions and behaviour of the Minister of Agriculture are overzealous, and today you say that they are insufficient. And then you said that the former Minister of Agriculture in the course of the ASF crisis was passing over exaggerated and unreliable information about the ASF threat. Therefore, at the beginning you loosened these categorical sharpenings and the effect is that moments after you took up your function - a little longer time, because at the beginning of the ASF did not develop so quickly - we came to the state that is today, and out of these 99 cases of African swine fever found more than 70 concern this year. Not 2014, not 2015, not even 2016, but this year. And now the question is, how fast did you get on with it? A work team has been set up. He was first called "to monitor," that is, to watch what is. That's what you gotta call it. Later, I think it was renamed or supplemented by its name for control. You've prepared two laws. First in September 2016, i.e. without a small year after taking up office. Where's the rush to fight ASF? Where's the effectiveness? Where's the answer to those questions you've been asking yourself? Where can we finally fight and give farmers the right money for what is happening to them? One of the vice ministers at the beginning of this term, the one I was talking about, who used to run so fast. After the meeting of the Sejm Committee, he presented his own programme to rebuild the potential of pig production in Poland and said that in a short time it would lead to the elimination of these things, which was abandoned by the PO-PSL government and its predecessors. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] So what has been done in this regard, and what are the results? Where are those 18 million pigs in breeding? There's a run-in with hunters, there's a run-in with Minister Sawicki, that he led to the development of ASF. By the way, find someone else to blame. Probably 1957. ASF came to Europe, Portugal. I don't think we have a bad relationship with Portugal yet, so explain to the Portuguese why the ASF have spread to Europe. Later he was in Spain, Italy. Did it start when? In 1910 in Kenya. Then explain it there by Minister Waszczykowski. Let him go, let him explain why the Kenyans led to the development of ASF. I'm sorry about the language, but I want you to know what your language was like a few years ago. Today ASF is in the territory of three voivodships: Podlaskie, Lublin, Mazowieckie, 100 bonfires, 500 speeches with ferals. The disease is approaching the meat plant with great strides. They're alerting industry organizations, everyone's alerting. You know that very well. There are no rented farmers, of which the Minister said at the committee meeting that they either pay or take 30 zlotys, and this is why protests take place. And you and Minister Bogucki go to meetings with farmers, they know what they're saying. The consequences for all agriculture are fatal, because the information about the development of ASF in Poland does not only affect the pork market, it projectes in Poland and other markets. I say this because I know from the autopsy, I go to different countries to help Polish entrepreneurs and I hear these voices: If you can't handle ASF, do you? Can you handle other diseases, quarantine pests that can be dragged into other countries? And the question is, isn't it possible to end this speech and say that this ASF is enough reason for the Minister to either resign himself or for us to cancel it? I don't want to embarrass this subject, I don't want to take it seriously. But that's a lesson, I think, for the Minister, too. It's not politically worth playing with difficult things. It's not politically worth planting a pig, because this pig is about to turn around and bite someone else. [[Applause]] It's not worth it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because today we have such a pejorative, unfair, I guess, terming pigs, treating pigs as something bad. Bad character is referred to as pig behavior. And the pig comes from a wild boar, and the wild boar is different. A wild boar is power, a strong muscle, a powerful animal in the woods. And I want you to read the definition, read about where the pig came from. Because the pig became a pig as a result of dealing with man. The pig became a pig as a result of dealing with a human being, and I will end there, and I will not develop this thread, because this thread will become personal. [[Applause]] We had an influence as humans on shaping this... [[What are you talking about, man?]] ...a pejorative term for pigs, so let's give that up. And Mr. Minister, let's get to work. And the minister isn't the only one who's been chased to do his job. Because the last time I heard at the session of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture, one of your activists, ba, in 2007 - I will read exactly - the Deputy Minister of Treasury in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, and in 2015 the candidate PiS to the Sejm - got about 4 thousand. Voices, I think, three and a half thousand. - he said this, summing up the government's actions in this area: After the statements of the government's representatives, it is clear that the government has adopted one model: the liquidation of ASF through the liquidation of family holdings. The liquidation of ASF by the liquidation of family farms - it is not a PSL activist, Kukiza, Modern or Platform said it. That's what the piss activist and the piss candidate for the sejm said, and he got the support, and he was running from the same list. What... [[Not PSL?]] ...minister Jurgiel, this and Minister Jurgiel, thanks to him, are also ministers. Besides, not only one PiS candidate was involved in the ASF case at the time, it was the planting of pigs, because there were more pigs, and it was in different electoral districts. But he goes on, he doesn't stop there. Speaking of the liquidation of ASF by the liquidation of family holdings, he further argues: From the regulation that you issued about the so-called. Bioinsurance, you can clearly see what your actions and the fight against family farms are. How are they different from the activities of house cleaners? That's what you should take to heart, because that's what your activist said, that you're liquidating the ASF through the liquidation of the farms, comparing it to the operation of the tenement cleaners, saying, that's exactly the same thing. So if I said it, it would be unbelievable, but that's what your man said. And he goes on to say, referring to the situation in the countryside: People who are now 30 and 40 years old are dropping farms, kids are leaving here and going abroad. That's the time he's talking about, not this from five, six, seven years ago. Even though they took a five-year bonus for a young farmer, they leave quietly so that their father and mother wouldn't see. People, what have you led to? These are his words, not mine, the words of your activist. And he's still asking. [[Who's that?]] And let no one come here. No offense: Will you start treating us like normal people, not some black people, a riffraff, a worse sort? Your man says it. Further referring to the agricultural budget, he says that this is the worst budget in history in terms of times after 1989. So much about ASF and so much. I don't want to behave the way you behaved. I do not want it to be like yesterday in the Agriculture Committee that Members said: not to play politically a great ASF issue, although they played in the past. Let's move on. The Agricultural Advisory Act, agricultural advisory units. You've got results today, you can see what it's done. There are no crowds that visit agricultural advisory centers, there are no significant improvements in the quality of farming advisory centers, and it is clear that farmers have more confidence in private, commercial advice than your revised advice. You said that the change would be better, because we're gonna take it out from under the management of the Sejmists, put it under the authority of the Minister, he's gonna be able to implement the central policy through agricultural advisory centers. It is realized because agricultural advisory centers, very often I see it, give out cards of questions to farmers at meetings with Minister Jurgiel or another PiS activist. [[Applause]] So in this respect, agricultural advisory centers work very well. I just wish you guys were still kicking people out. In one of the counties where there was a big frost disaster in the spring, you threw out an activist, a manager, just because he did a good job of assessing losses, good for farmers, worse for you, because you have to pay compensation. [[Finish it. Whose activist?]] An activist who has worked in agricultural advisory since the beginning of his career after graduating... [[Polish People's Party.]] ...without political affiliation. Because if he were from PSL, Mr, he would probably be cancelled in October or November 2015. The aim of the amendment was to improve the implementation in the field of advice to farmers. She was supposed to be offering the opportunity to co-finance counseling. Where is it all? Question: "Where is all this?" Let me say this, I said this before, we said this before: Agriculture is different in different parts of Poland, agriculture is regional and local in nature. Another is agriculture in West Pomerania, another in Podkarpackie, and if you had the intention that agricultural advisory centres would respond to changes and the shape of agriculture in particular regions, you would leave it to local authorities, but that you needed agricultural advisory centres to influence farmers politically, so you centralized it yourself. Just like you always centralize. Here is the question I asked at the beginning: Is Minister Jurgiel independent in this regard, or is he again carrying out the tasks of the headquarters from Nowogrodzka? He's doing the tasks of the headquarters from Nowogrodzka. The crop insurance law, that is to say, help farmers in the event of natural disasters if they are affected by a dangerous phenomenon. Of course, I judge all those laws negatively, in a category that is harmful to agriculture, because otherwise it cannot be defined. The Minister for Agriculture and the PiS announced a rapid revision of the natural disaster insurance legislation so that it would be universal, cheap and effective. The first project was submitted on 26 April 2016, i.e. Five months after the election. I guess it wasn't in the Prime Minister's briefcase or the Minister's file because it would probably have been presented earlier. What have you changed in this bill? You wrote that the premium couldn't be less than 65%. Which you've already approved, and you've written down the so-called. risk packages, i.e. that the farmer will be able to cover more than one risk. What's the effect? Let us talk about this period, which is the most important for agriculture at the time of insurance, i.e. the spring period. And let's talk about 2016, when you were in charge. There is no significant increase, and even at some point there was a significant decrease in the number of policies, the number of hectares insured. Although the contributions are still co-financed at 65% , it is practically for the farmer that they are higher than when they were at 50% Check it out. The farmer today, although receiving a higher subsidy from the state budget to the insurance premium, pays more than he paid when he received 50% because it was used by insurance companies, including your flagship state insurance company PZU. [[Yours?]] It's yours. It's not ours. Who's the CEO, who's on the board of this company? I know it hurts, and that's why the voices are here. [[She was yours for eight years.]] That's not enough, you actually saved that 900 million PLN in the budget for insurance premiums, but it's not over for another year, far from the end of it, and you've already taken 400 million out of it. You took 400 million, so where's the effectiveness when it comes to insurance? And what happened in the spring of this year, on April 16th, 17th, and then at the beginning of May. You will no longer defend yourselves from this and you will not defend your insurance company, which has almost a monopoly in rural areas, we all know that. Because the farmers came and wanted to be insured, but they could not because no one offered them an offer. You're not gonna drop this on some commercial companies, international corporations, some Germans, French, Italians or anyone else who owns a monopoly on the insurance market. You guys have that monopoly on the insurance market, so why didn't you make those offers? Why couldn't farmers cover themselves? Simple thing: to take the 400 million out of this system and use it for something else. That's the perfect way to do it. Why have the affected farmers in the areas where the storms were, where the hails were, where the rain was, not yet received funds for the destroyed buildings? How long has it been since this happened? How does it come to the announcement that compensation will be made immediately? Show the farmer who took anything in one case and in the other case, in the case of storms and spring frosts. I don't know a farmer like that. What were your conditions in these insurance laws? Well, you've given the conditions that make insurance companies, not just yours, but other insurance companies, who don't want to go into the system, they don't present offers, and farmers don't cover themselves, they're still not covered. How else can this law be judged, how can it not be negative? What did this bill bring about? Since the Minister always spoke a lot, so on 9 September 2015, when the drought was in Poland or was the end of this drought, he said: Farmers need a smooth crop insurance system, and in cases such as this year's drought, immediate aid from the state budget. What about the help? What about the proposal to the European Commission? I'm turning that question around. Farmers need an efficient crop insurance system, and in the case of phenomena such as this year's frosts, such as this year's storms, they expect immediate assistance from the state budget, Minister, Prime Minister. What about this help and the proposal to the European Commission? I'm turning that question around. I'm not being bad. I'm just flipping the question that was once asked. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the coalition of PO-PSL 450 million PLN was allocated for drought and not on the same terms as it is today, that completed several-page protocols, that the provisions - 70% minimum losses that deduction of so-called losses. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, And that was 400 zł and 800 zł to 1 ha. You guys are bragging today about giving me $2,000. Who's gonna take the 2,000?? You've already counted it, because I don't believe you've issued a regulation without counting it. I know very few of them. You put in such conditions that $2,000. He's not gonna make it to the majority. We're gonna get $1,000 to the section. zł to 1 ha for the cultivation of these hard fruits from trees, and 500 zł for berries. I would like to remind you that in 2016 there was aid, which you also set at a minimum of 70%. losses caused by hail. And how many farmers have helped? What was the scale of your help then, and what will be the scale of your help today? Will it be PLN 450 million? After all, you have it counted, after all your ministers said it would be 100 million PLN, 1/4 of the funds that were for that event I was talking about, and I was talking about drought. Where's the efficiency, where's the efficiency, where is the realization of what you've been presenting? As regards the figures relating to insurance, please note: in 2014 it was covered by the insurance of 142 000. ha, in 2016 - 116 ha. In 2016, there was no bad coalition. Area covered by insurance in 2014 - 3,27 million ha, in 2016 - 2,3 It's a million ha. [[Voice from the room: And these are numbers.]] These numbers don't lie. [[Voice from the room: These are facts.]] Down it goes, not up it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] And now the disaster loan subsidies, which you also raise as aid to those who are injured. In 2014, the State's budget subsidies to ensure that the loans are preferential, i.e. that the farmer does not have to pay the commercial rate, were at PLN 25 million. 25 million PLN in 2014 How much was it in 2016, when you guys were in charge? PLN 9.3 million, less than half. And how much in 2017, can somebody answer? I do not know farmers today who would already have granted disaster loans, for a simple reason - because banks have no limits. Numbers don't lie, ladies and gentlemen, and this is another proof that the Minister of Agriculture should be called off. The next thing you're going to see, but it's not implemented, it's the Guarantee Fund Act. I remember how we presented this project, our project, in the last term. He was subject to widespread criticism by you - because there was a provision that farmers would also contribute to this fund as part of a paratax - that here we are imposing on farmers... that he would be an additional burden on farmers. You're predicting a very similar system with budget power, but somehow he can't see the light of day, it's just virtual reality all the time. He's in virtual reality somewhere, and it looks like he's in that minister's briefcase and the prime minister isn't here. This is another announcement that was not realized and which was the foundation of your election program, which allowed you to deceive the Poles and take power. What is the position of the farmer today? Because we often hear today that the position of the farmer has increased so much, so much. Again, quote from Minister Jurgel, this time from October 2013: Urgent action is needed to eliminate disparities, including. by supporting the creation of producer groups, the dissemination of contract agreements. Very good for me two topics: producer groups and contracting contracts. So let's go see what you've done about it. You talked about the fact that corporations operating in the economy - insurance corporations, processing corporations, commercial corporations - it's a disgrace and a perversion to the building of position and income by the farmer. And here we partially agree, I'd say almost completely. What are these disparities in the market today? We're about to talk about this bill, the so-called law. contract advantage. On the one hand, we have the most disorganized farmer, and even as he is already in the producer group, it is still a weak market, and on the other hand a well organized recipient of his product. Greatly organized, because either this is an international processing consortium, regardless of the industry, regardless of the product, or a well organized retail or wholesale trade. And these are the ones who are playing the farmers to a large extent today. So what did you do to change that? In the first case, as far as producer groups are concerned, we probably achieved an effect in 2014 in terms of achieving the marketing of products, e.g. fruit and vegetables on this market, the effect of trading through groups, by agricultural organisations, at 25%. Not enough, because well developed countries, Western European countries, have this rate of 80% , even 90%. But we were going the right way. But you flipped this system by saying that they are potential thieves, a pathological environment that has used EU funds, and today we have the effect that agricultural products are traded less than 20%. So that's 5% already. Those big international corporations you want to fight have taken over this year. In fact, you started this fight by introducing a tax, trying to introduce a market tax, and then you listened to experts. Then you listened to the representatives of those markets who said clearly, "We will pay back this tax on those who provide us, because they are weaker, they are small, they are disorganized." We'll move it. But you're not going to submit this tax for any other reason, so you're inefficient in this respect, too. So if there are these disparities in the market, it is worth - and here too we agree - to some group of farmers, even not those not associated in producer groups and organizations, to give the opportunity to earn money on the market and obtain such so-called. the added value, i.e. the margin for selling itself or the margin for converting the product and selling it on the market. We call it different: direct sales, retail sales. That's also what you announced. There were some projects in the previous term, they were in this term. This is generally about shortening the chain, as I said earlier, so that the farmer earns not only the production of his product, but the sale of this product, the processing and sale of this product. You presented the first project on 6 October 2016 year after the elections. Today you say this project is great, even I hear you bragging about it. Only that in this law you forgot to correlate the requirements of the market and the possibility for farmers to trade with the requirement of health care, Veterinary Inspection as far as animal products are concerned. A farmer can produce and sell, but he can't really do what the results show. Let's find these products in the stores. Which store can we find these products legally produced, legally marketed? It was necessary to calculate and prepare such improvements that would mean that this farmer, for example. This kilogram of sausage can produce and distribute on simple terms, on simple terms. And today this farmer has to take the pigs to the slaughterhouse, pay on the way for the transport of a licensed vehicle, etc., remake, pay, meet safety requirements and at the end this sausage will be five times more expensive than in the store. Who's gonna buy it? Who's gonna buy it? Another legal bubble you prepared was to be a cure for the situation in agriculture, to stimulate consumer patriotism, i.e. that Poles ate Polish products, which we encourage, because they are indeed the best quality. You have prepared such a sign of the Polish Product. I think this bill had two sides or three sides, I can't remember anymore, including the annex. We asked such a question at the time: Will it give the Polish product from Polish raw materials, produced on the basis of Polish producers, about Polish workers on the market? I'm not gonna go through with this anymore. I'll answer the questions again. Please indicate to me one product marked with this logo, which will recognize more than 100 Poles. Please indicate the shop where the product marked with this logo is available. Finally, tell me what market share the products bearing this logo have. You're trying something, but you have no idea how to do it. First you have to promote the product, this logo, show that it is important, tell people: buy this product, then you will have Polish raw material. It's just not just a lack of knowledge, but these are the consequences of this lack of knowledge in your business on the market. And a second horse, something that I and Polish farmers are very fond of. The Minister also very often raises this as a result of his effective action to defend this small, unorganized farmer, to improve his situation in the context of large-area networks. Even at the Festival in Spala, you said so, Minister, that we have a bill that will allow the farmer in contact with the hypermarket to be in a better position than it has been so far. Firstly, it is very rare to have such a distribution channel that a product goes directly from a farmer to a hypermarket. This product goes through intermediaries and the farmer usually delivers his product not to a hypermarket, not to a large processing plant, only the farmer usually delivers it to a buying-in point. These are small deliveries. And in this law, you wrote down one threshold: for the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection to do anything in defence of this farmer, its turnover with the first recipient, i.e. with this buying-in point, must exceed 50,000. zł. How many farms have more than 50,000 turnovers with one buying-in point. Evil? On the other hand, how many points are there? You will make the second condition that the latter, who uses the farmer and should not, must have an annual turnover of more than PLN 100 million. How many on the other side are those buying-in points that have a turnover of more than PLN 100 million? Do this analysis and then you'll see what legal bubble you've prepared, and you say it's good for the Polish village, for the Polish farmer. Do you know who it's good for? It's good for those international corporations you announced a fight with, because they're legitimized. It's legit that what they're doing is legal. All you had to do was change the act about the UOKiK and give this UOKiK some competence, and you wrote such a sentence that if the UOKiK finds some action that is immoral, then it can start action. What does "immoral action'mean? What conduct in which immoral conduct on the market must be proved will be successful in the form of a proper judicial judgment? After all, such an entrepreneur will defend a student of the first year of law, because it is imprecise. Can't you understand that? You don't understand, because we've talked about this many times. Contractual agreements. What does the agricultural environment in Poland and other countries of the European Union expect in the context of these large international corporations, corporations? He expects to strengthen his position, because it is too weak, we are too weak as farmers for this great recipient. So he's looking for reinforcements. After all, the European Commission has seen this, although many things have been done in this European Commission, apart from the subsidies, you will give up. This European Commission, in Regulation No 1308 of the European Parliament and of the Council, ordered Member States to enter into contractual agreements in order to strengthen the farmer. And what have you done about it? And that would be good, because it would give the farmer the opportunity to plan production, he would have a long-term contract, he would know when, for how much, in what quality parameters the product would sell and when he would get the money for it. The relationship between the farmer and the recipient of his product would thus be established and the role of supplier of this raw material, namely that farmer, would be strengthened. And what did you do about it? You did so that those big farmers who are actually using these farmers were exempted from signing these contracts, because you switched them to these small buying points, so they can still do what they want, set prices at the central level, and on the farmer you imposed such an obligation that if you want to sell an apple box on the wholesale market in Bronisze or Elizówka in Lublin, then with this apple box recipient you have to sign a contract. This is your vision of strengthening the farmer and this is your vision of regulating matters on the line the recipient - the supplier of the product. This is a vision that causes international corporations, big processing companies operating also in Poland to have a farmer locked in stocks for several years. This is what you have led to, and this law is criminally unfavourable, not only indifferent from a legal standpoint. Producer groups - that's what I've been talking about. You've identified the sector as pathological. You turned your back on the good changes that were. Today, farmers sell less and less by producer groups, sell more and more by international corporations, and are increasingly exploited in this respect. It was supposed to be your farmers' cooperative law, which had some way of encouraging farmers to come together in cooperatives. What's in that bill? They didn't even start proceding her in the Seym any further. Even her legislative process did not take place, because you just saw that there was nothing there and it would be ridiculous, which was done in the first reading. Well, because just saying, "Get together in cooperatives, you'll be better off, that's not enough. Give me tax preferences. Give support from the Rural Development Programme to the fruit producer groups, as it used to be, and you took this. Give it to me, then you'll see how this mechanism works, how farmers can organize themselves. A little faith in these farmers, a little pragmatism about what farmers want and what they expect, and logic in the process, because there is pragmatism in farmers. And this pragmatism is also very clear about the issue that we are raising in our proposal - the issue of the Russian embargo. Yes, you did not introduce the Russian embargo, it was introduced in 2014 as a result of a conflict between the European Commission and Russia. [[Who was in charge then?]] [[I'm gonna ask you a smart question.]] I encourage you to go to the Parliament, it says who was in charge then. So we have had a Russian embargo since 2014, and we have no charges here that you have not lifted this embargo because it was the embargo that putin introduced, not you, not us, not the European Union. But the problem is that you do not say anything about it in the international arena, I do not know whether as a result of this anti-Russian phobia or anti-German phobia, anti-EU phobia, so that anyone will start to change it adversely for Polish agriculture and for the Polish economy the embargo on other forms of impact on Russia. There's no such will on your part. You're even ashamed to talk about it. You can only create enemies, you can create adversaries, you can't build positions, you can't apply this pragmatism. Because it sells there, and it's every farmer who knows where someone wants to buy it. Sells to the person who pays more - you don't look at the flag someone has, what's his country called - he sells it and buys it from the one who sells the cheapest. That's the rule. If this rule doesn't apply, it's gonna fall, just like the previous system fell. You're trying to lie to reality, to lie to economic laws, saying it's different, that you buy from the one who sells more expensive, and that's better, and you sell it to the one who buys cheaper, and that's better. No, you only have to sell to whoever buys more. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And now there's a discussion about whether the Russian market matters to us. There are such voices that PSL, Platform, others exaggerate in terms of the importance of the Russian market. Let me remind you that 1 million t of Polish apples left for the Russian market before 2014. And let me say more not to say too much, I suggest that one of the PiS Members get in the truck with apples, with meat, with other agricultural products and hear what words will be said when this truck is opened. For it may fall, or Guten Tag, which does not pass through your throat, or, Betray, which also does not pass through your throat. Polish products go there and they are the biggest recipients, even though they do not want to reach you. The pragmatism of the Polish farmer is that he sells to those who want to buy, and not that he will sell to Kenya, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, as the Minister said yesterday at the agricultural committee meeting, because there is no logistics, there is no money, there is no willingness to buy this product in the quantities in which he buys you on the eastern and western side of our country. [[Applause]] Is there a voice of the Polish Minister of Agriculture on the subject of discussing trade regulation with Russia? Is that voice there? There isn't. And I heard the voice of politicians from other countries of the European Union. And they're not some scabs, they're not some collaborators, they're just rational people. Because Prime Minister Orbán, who you're referring to when you had to buy items for your nuclear power plant, bought it where? Not in France, not in the UK, not in the United States, but in Russia. Think about it. Think about it, because you will not change Polish agriculture so as to fundamentally change export directions from European directions: eastern and western directions, markets far away. Notabene, when it comes to shipping to markets far away, we could start again a debate on what you have done on this issue. Because the President, yes, continued the work we were doing - he ate with the Chinese president an apple. Polish apples are known in China. The question is, what did you do next to help Polish entrepreneurs in this market? First of all, you paid their fees. If they want to be certified to export to China, they have to submit to control and pay for it. And this already, first of all, caused the volume of apples exported to the Chinese market compared to exports to the Russian market to be 1 million t to 1 000 t. a. And that's the data. That's the effectiveness. Now I don't know if there's another topic to be discussed, but I'll try. This is a very painful topic for you: GMOs. Here it was already more Members who ran a few years ago from the speaker to the hall and vice versa, accusing, first of all, this side of the room of the fact that some of its hidden or even public actions introduce GMOs into Poland. Yet the Law on Feed and the possibility of using genetically modified soybeans was prepared, voted on and functioning in this term. So by 2019 we can use genetically modified soybeans. Is she a GMO or not? There it is. Did you protect Poland from GMOs? No. But I'll tell you more, you did the right thing in this case. Because if you blocked the supply of genetically modified soybeans, you would turn Polish agriculture to the end, you would turn poultry, cattle, etc., etc. But today do not lie to Poles and do not say that under your rule Poland is free from GMOs because it is not. Buying every meat product in Poland today, we buy genetically modified soybean products that you have introduced, and even, I would say more, which you wanted to introduce by 2021. The Minister doesn't believe himself, and this is the project he presented. Only a seymous majority decided that it would be 2019 and we shorten this period by 2 years to continue the programme of the coalition of PO-PSL for the development of domestic protein and the production of domestic protein. You don't even believe in yourselves. But let's move on. After all, a recent law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms appeared in the Seym on 22 March 2017. And who's been reporting it? Who introduced her? The first fighter fighting GMOs - only or not a pseudo-professor - Minister Szyszko, who, in fact, is in the article. 49... [[Voice from the hall: Today he moved into the trees.]] ...writes: The territory of the Republic of Poland is established by a GMO-free zone, but already in paragraph 1. 2 of this article is written: The cultivation of GMOs is permitted on the territory of the Republic of Poland. True, a number of restrictions are later mentioned, particularly by assigning the role to individual ministers, but the question is whether this is a more liberal one than it has been so far or not. And the question is, where is the amendment to the Seed Act, which you criticized so strongly, that we introduce genetically modified varieties into the register, and you say, you won't introduce them? Where's the bill? Where's the GMO fight? And again you can quote not people from the PSL, from the Platform, from Kukiza or from the Modern, only those who come to the agriculture committee meetings and talk about treason who say they were in the green town, helping the PiS win elections, and now they ask: What are you doing today about GMOs, what are you doing about direct food, where are you? You tricked us - that's what they say. And there's going to be some controversy. The issue, which is as fundamental to the Polish village as the rotation of the land as the strengthening of the position of the farmer, is the issue of the retirement age of farmers. It hurts you especially because you're raising this topic very strongly. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you talked about it too, so let's get the facts straight. Until 31 December 2017, the condition is that a man under certain conditions, not excessive, because maybe a farm. Renting her children at the age of 60 retires and a woman at the age of 55. Is that it or isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes or no?]] Yes, sir. If it meets the conditions until 31 December 2017, if it reaches such age, it shall acquire pension rights. And now who's trying to do something about it? Because you're talking about how in 2012, we raised the retirement age for farmers to 67 years old, women to 12 years old, men to another. It was written there, this date was mentioned and it was also stated in the findings that we will analyse the development of the labour market and pension system in Poland and if we consider that there is a need to extend this period, we will extend it to the next stage. And that's what we made. [[In the bill?]] Yeah, in the bill. [[The president filed it.]] You rejected it. Not much, I'll say more, because you may not support us, but then 100%. Your president, today I don't know how many percent, then 100% That's the kind of project he's put together. [[President of the Republic of Poland.]] Yes, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda submitted such a project, for which a little more respect, fellow Members. [[Applause]] The President's project from your political center has been rejected. How's it looking today? You're supposed to be down from 67 to 65, but you actually raised it from 60 to 65. That's the truth. [[Applause]] If you don't get it, ask those farmers who come to the KRUS field offices today and ask if they can retire. Some of these farmers get an answer: please come back in five years. This is your work. Our work was to establish conditions at the same level as it used to be. And if you wanted to do that, which is not to raise the retirement age for farmers, you had to either support our project, or support Mr Andrzej Duda's proposal, or report your own project, supporting these 55 and 60 years. What does that mean for the village today? This means, and this is already starting to work, also generational change in rural areas. Let's do this simulation. A farmer under your laws can retire at the age of 65. Yes or no? Yes. Until then, in order to live, he has to earn money, he has to go to the store and buy products for something, so he has to run a farm and, for that reason, earns income, that is, until 65th year he runs a farm. And now we assume: if he has a child that was born when he was 25, he will take over the farm when he is 40 years old, which is your understanding that the young farmer will then take over the farm. Forty-year-old, prospective young farmer takes over the farm, a young farmer within the meaning of the PIS, because in my understanding, the young farmer is 20 and 25 years old. But let's move on. Let's do another simulation. If, thanks to the 500+ programme, a farmer was born when he was 20 years old, such cases occur, the child will take over the farm when he is 45 years old. And what perspective before this man at the age of 45? In this way, by at least 5 years you have slowed down the process of transforming and taking over farms in the Polish countryside. You can't run from that either, and you can't scream the slogan that someone raised the retirement age because they didn't raise the farmers to 67 years old. What can be done today to avoid this? Or divide the farm, which is inefficient, but let this farmer, despite the 500+ programme, undertake these procreation activities only when he is 40 and 45 years old. I don't know if he's so keen on procreation then, but let him do it, because that's your vision. Only then will his successor take over the farm at his normal age. This is the assessment and effect of practically increasing your retirement age, and you won't yell that either. Let's move on. Minister Jurgiel said this on 4 March 2015: The current coalition supports the concept of neoliberal development, supports the process of globalisation, and as a result the national state of Poland loses its power to manage. An example is the statement that the Minister can't do anything, that it's up to Brussels. You were talking about Minister Jurgiel then, either Minister Sawicki or Minister Kalembie. What is the danger to Polish agriculture? And here's what you're saying: pressure to spread GMOs. I told you what you were doing or what you weren't doing. You're the ones that are introducing GMOs, not stopping GMOs. [[Applause]] Systematic submission of agriculture to the interests of transnational corporations. I was trying to prove it. You put obligations on farmers to sign contracts, not those big farmers who play. Increase the competitiveness of agriculture in non-EU countries. Oh, this thread will have to be developed. Increase the competitiveness of agriculture in non-EU countries. What are you doing? As a result of the evaluation of the Minister of Agriculture, you disseminate GMOs, submit to corporations, reduce the competitiveness of agriculture, support or give the opportunity for agriculture of non-EU countries to have better conditions of competition in Poland, read: CETA, read: conditions for Ukraine. And then, in terms of market protection, October 2013, a debate on the vote of distrust towards Minister Kalemba. Minister Jurgiel says this: There is no strong will on the part of the government to protect the European and thus the Polish market from the influx of cheap agricultural products from countries which do not comply with European food safety standards and conditions. Changes are moving towards reducing and reducing customs barriers. It was a charge. So what is your agreement today, the Minister of Agriculture's silent consent to the ceta agreement? Because I don't really know if you're in favour, if you're indifferent, if you're indifferent to the PiS vote, if you're against the CETA agreement, because that's what the PiS vote is. This is an agreement of evil for Polish agriculture, and the worst part is that it is... it will be accepted and already applies in the commercial part with the silent acceptance of the Minister of Agriculture. [[And who negotiated it in what years?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt!]] Conditions for importing agricultural products from Ukraine - this is a very simple question and a very simple answer. [[Difficult questions, difficult things.]] This was negotiated by European officials, and the final negotiation is a year when you are in charge. [[Who was sitting there, dwarves?]] It's just that no one's been sitting there from you, unfortunately, because if any of you were sitting there... you're just going there on trips... if someone were sitting... but I'm gonna talk about it in a minute. Conditions for Ukraine. Is this a threat to Polish agriculture or not? Before the war, it was already said that if Ukraine had enough capital, enough money, it would be able to feed half of Europe and maybe more. What are you doing here to change the conditions for Ukraine so that they are beneficial to agriculture? Because the fact that Ukraine will be able to export agricultural products to the customs territory of the European Union will not translate into the income of the average Ukrainian. Do you know who's gonna consummate it? It will be consummated by the oligarchs, in fact they will have support for it, and will consummate those who have invested in Ukraine - foreign capital, which already has an excellent part of the Ukrainian land in its rule. We are really supporting them, and you really supported them, because the Members of the European Parliament did not oppose this. They didn't oppose it and didn't say "no." So you're okay with that. And what are the effects of this? Let's see what happened this year on the fruit market. At the moment when the fruit remains were left on the trees of Polish fruit growers, when they moved with these fruits to wholesale markets to introduce any funds to their farms, it turned out that under quotas cherries from Ukraine entered today raspberry from Ukraine. And I will say even more - agricultural organizations intervened at that time with your services to see what quality of this import is from Ukraine, whether the company that imports it is not a bush company, and whether this product finally comes from Ukraine, what properties it has. None of the institutions that are subject to you have taken any action. Nothing. The price fell by 50% at that time... [[You're lying.]] ...and import has not been inhibited. Likewise today, imports of raspberries from Ukraine are not inhibited. And today in Poland we have 50% last year's harvest and prices at 50% The ones from last year. Why? Because there's a huge import from Ukraine. What does the minister's announcement a few years ago say that it needs to be changed and that he's probably going to do it? Briefly about the labour market. The situation has changed. In Poland the unemployment rate is decreasing, and good. The economy is growing, and good. It's not like anyone's gonna be angry about PiS going bankrupt and leading to the fall of their company, everyone wants to grow, there's a need for a workforce. These economic effects, which we have achieved in many areas, have been achieved thanks to the cheap labour force from Ukraine. Thanks to this we had a market advantage compared to our biggest customers. That was until you started manipulating it. You started manipulating, like introducing a seasonal directive, actually burdening farmers with additional burdens from 1 January 2018. - and administrative, and financial. And take note of this, what are the rates today for harvesting fruit? These rates from PLN 7 and 8 net per hour have already increased to more than PLN 10 net per hour. This is already the result of the fact that Ukrainian citizens in any number cannot enter Poland, but also the effect that they are going to other countries of the European Union. The Prime Minister gave three elements in his defence a few weeks ago in her brief preliminary speech evaluating Minister Jurgiel. I've already broken two, which is the issue of land trading and retirement age. But the Prime Minister also said that the Minister had regulated prices in the markets. But here is a fundamental discussion. How can the Minister regulate prices on the market? [[Voice from the room: Stabilize.]] Can it regulate prices on the market? Well, once he could regulate prices - you were in opposition, the minister in your sense could regulate prices. When there is a change and you are Minister Jurgel, and you are Minister Bogucki from the market, I can already hear that our potential for impact on the market is negligible, we are not setting prices. And I'm guessing that's pretty much the case. But in a moment, Minister Jurgiel says: I have managed to stabilise prices and raise prices on the milk market and on the pork market. If the Minister has the possibility to regulate prices on the market, the Minister should regulate the prices of raspberries, the Minister should regulate the prices of black currants and many other products. If this is not possible, let him make it clear that prices on the milk market are the result of exports from European Union countries and stimulating demand for milk, while living is an issue of exports to Asian markets from other EU countries - because we are acting in the common market formula, these prices have increased with us. And now: stabilize the prices or settle it? To regulate, i.e. to influence, to stabilise, or to ensure an equal level of them. I would say that the most important thing from the farmer's point of view is not to stabilise or regulate, but to provide stable prices, such as that allow the farmer to make a profit, to make a profit. The farmer should achieve income from the sale of his products - not only from area subsidies, but also from the sale of his products. Did you regulate, stabilize, or did you bring these prices to the right level, and did you raise them? A few examples, not too many. In 2017 in May milk 1.3 zł, in July 2014 there was 1,32 zł - average price. This is your data from the Ministry of Agriculture. Pig live, July 2017 - 5.7, July 2013 - 5.81 (data from the Ministry of Agriculture), rapeseed, July 2017 - 1597, July 2012 - 2051. So is wheat. So it was simply a coincidence that the Prime Minister heard in her ear from Minister Jurgiel that he had regulated the prices, and in fact the market has caused these prices to change. Ladies and gentlemen, policy in the European Union. What came out of your slogan - the emancipation of Poland in decisions of EU bodies? What happened to getting out of your knees? What are the results? These examples can be multiplied. I'll only serve one, maybe two. As a result of the Russian embargo, following negotiations by Minister Sawicki, Poland negotiated 300 thousand. t per year the limit for so-called withdrawal of fruit for the poor population in order to improve the market situation for those who suffered losses as a result of the Russian embargo. And how much of that did you guys provide in the years to come? In the following years, you provided 50,000. t, for this year 70,000. a. Where is the strong voice of Poland? Where's the partnership? Where is it to show our identity at European level? You not only didn't get out of those knees, you went to bed even more. Poland's voice regarding the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020 is not heard. Unheard, and this is not my opinion, this is the opinion of those who are in Brussels and Strasbourg. The Minister for Agriculture of Germany talks to the Minister for Agriculture of France, which will be the system after 2020, but there is no Minister Jurgel at the table. Minister Jurgel is at the table perhaps with a minister from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, those countries that really don't matter much in the decision-making process, because they don't have a majority, even though they are equally important. Poland is passive and does not play a role adequate to the potential of Polish agriculture. Proof of this is the amounts which have been granted for aid to those who are injured by the ASF. After all, this is 10 times less than what the Minister expected, and much less than what Polish farmers expect. Poland is isolated, that is the truth, because we see it after various votes. You guys go there. But what comes of it? The Prime Minister used that phrase, and I will quote the farmer again. I don't remember what the debate was anymore. I believe this was a debate about the cancellation of Minister Błaszczak. You were talking about wearing EU Navy dignitaries that honor doesn't allow us to wear EU Navy dignitaries that we're not the ones for that. The farmer says this today: indeed, today our negotiators, representatives do not wear jacket to EU dignitaries, decision makers, because they strip in another locker room and don't hang their jacket on hangers where they hang their jacket representatives important in the European Union, making decisions of countries, just hang it on a nail somewhere in the side locker room. [[Applause]] That's the assessment. This is the assessment of your effectiveness at European level and this is the evidence I have provided. Two more things not to say too much. Water laws, fuel charges, and a few other things we talked about a few weeks ago. We talked about threats to the Polish farmer. And indeed, the Prime Minister reacted. On the other hand, there was no voice of the Minister of Agriculture in defence of Polish farmers. It is painful that the Minister not only does not implement the PiS programme, but also does not implement a program that would be good for Polish farmers. What were his expectations? The 500+ programme mechanism is mentioned as one of the arguments for good policy in rural areas. Okay, this element works, but first of all, it's a social program, and second of all, it's not the hero of today's event that's the author of this program, it's more Minister Rafalska, which we're not discussing, but about the cancellation of Minister Jurgiel. And Minister Jurgiel just hacked into it. Several indicators, which also show the situation in the Polish village. The Minister also talks very often about the fact that we will improve or improve - whether we are effective in this - the conditions of functioning of the Polish village, the inhabitants of the Polish village, and here he usually mentions three elements: police stations, health services and postal services. Well, the reform of police stations in your understanding - and this happens sometimes, indeed - is that you move police officers from active service to police stations in the area, among the residents. And these precincts, maybe the precincts, there's a little more, but there's less cops in the field. It is such a pouring from glass to glass and determining whether the sum is different. The sum of this liquid is the same. As far as rural health services are concerned, what are the merits of this? What are you doing in this regard? How many health centers have you opened? I didn't hear it. Health centers are mostly self-government. [[Opening up centers is what you know are communes.]] And your favourite postal service, raised by the Minister of Postal Services. Even yesterday, the Minister in the Agriculture Committee said that you are working intensively on increasing the number of post offices in rural areas so that the farmer, the villager, is better served. Can't you see, Minister, that today, in the Polish countryside, the cars of couriers of various companies are coming to the farmyard, to the farmer's house? We're skipping it. Let's just say it's the mail that's supposed to serve. So what are these numbers? And let the Prime Minister write that down, too. In 2014 in rural areas, in the countryside, there were 2801 post offices, in 2014. And how much in 2016? It was not the bad coalition that ruled 2638 institutions in 2016. 163 post offices are gone. There was no increase in the number of post offices, no loss of post offices in rural areas. And the number of mailboxes in the country? I apologize for taking your time with such things, but I would like to refer to what the Minister praises. We're down 15%. mailboxes in the period 2015.2016. Is this an improvement in rural areas, or is this a deterioration of the situation? And a few other indicators, since it's already so good in the country. Data on the National Debt Register, which tells us about the debt of the villagers. I don't have it on a piece of paper to show you this, so listen to the numbers. In 2015, the number of debtors in rural areas, in rural areas, is 356 thousand. persons, entities. 356,000. in 2015 In 2017 - 412 thousand. That's an increase of 16%. By 16% The number of debtors in rural areas has increased as a result of these wonderful actions - ironically speaking - raising farmers' profitability. And the amount of debt? In 2015 - 2.9 billion PLN, in 2017 - 6.1 billion PLN. 100% , exactly 103% debt growth, amounts of debt in rural areas. And these are not loans for agricultural activities, but are mainly charges for energy charges, for this type of phenomenon, for such goods. Yeah, but now it's pretty serious... [[Was that a joke?]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] No, building... The welfare rate in the countryside based on the number of mailboxes in the country... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Czartoryski, learn a little. [[Voice from the room: Good, good.]] [[Two hours of jokes.]] The indicator of the wealth of rural areas, the rural population on the basis of mailboxes, is your argument about the income situation in the countryside. [[Voice from the room: But it was e-mail.]] The e-mail boxes were, yeah. However, there are other indicators now, beyond the debt to which you lead in rural areas. Very serious stuff now. Minister Jurgel at harvest festivals said a few days ago that Poland will have a record this year in terms of exports of agri-food products, and exchanged the amount of EUR 25 billion. Let's hope so, 'cause this trend would keep us going. And I wish it, Polish farmers, even I wish it to the Minister. In 2015, this exports amounted to 23.9 billion, in 2016 - 24.3, i.e. slightly increased. But let's see what happened to the import, that's very important, or with the trade balance, because the trade balance, i.e. the advantage of sales over imports, fell from EUR 7.8 billion in 2015 to EUR 7 billion in 2016. This is also data from you, the Ministry of Agriculture, it's not according to some opposition-related economist. This means that in 2016 €800 million more We bought it before we sold it. What does this transformation mean in the long term? That means, unfortunately, there are bad trends. The increase in debt in rural areas, etc., as I mentioned earlier, shows, and these are serious economic indicators, that in the countryside it does not happen as you say, or as farmers who read from the cards prepared by your workers in agricultural advisory centres, or even as some agricultural organisations say at the meetings of the agricultural committee, entering the agricultural minister into the word. We can also talk about the lies that you raised during the election period, about what amounts were made to support agriculture in the previous period, that is, when you negotiated, in 2006 and during the period when Minister Kalemba, Minister Sawicki, negotiated a new financial perspective. You know you're losing this debate. Not only did you lose this debate in the Sejm, you didn't just lose in the agricultural committee, you lost in the court. In this periodical, you wrote the Polish land, and then the court made a decision and passed a judgment that you were to turn it all around, and you turned it around. And not only did you have to unscrew it, correct it, but you still had to pay $10,000. Zł per charity, so that your lies are exposed. You can say that the balance is good for you, because because you lied, you took power, only that in a moment those you cheated will draw conclusions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Summary. The analysis of the Minister of Agriculture's activities in terms of the changes made and proposed is negative, both in terms of national level and in terms of the European Union forum. You can shout it out, and it will probably be your voices in a moment, but the economic indicators clearly show it: adverse developments in Polish agriculture are getting worse. They're getting deeper. You don't straighten them out, you don't correct them, they get worse. In subordinate institutions - nepotism and indolence. What you've been accusing us of, you're doing today. I'm not even gonna pick it up anymore. This conclusion is of course the assessment of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, as I said at the beginning, not of his person, himself Krzysztof Jurgiel personally, but his activities as Minister of Agriculture. We're not gonna judge his charisma, his predisposition to this function, we're just doing it on the basis of what he did and what he promised. It is clear that the Minister is not implementing his own program, and he is not willing to give up on himself. He obviously doesn't want to, he feels good about the position he's in. I don't want to say he's getting drunk because it would be reprehensible of me, but he does look good in his assessment of his administration. The Minister does not implement the PiS agricultural programme or the Prime Minister. He doesn't have the strength to call him off because there aren't people here who make decisions about this. Finally, the minister conducts a policy that is harmful to the Polish countryside and Polish farmers and the Polish economy. I'm saying it with all my conviction. The Minister is implementing a program that allowed the Polish village to be manipulated and caused the state to exercise power in Poland today. And since the proposal, as I said at the outset, is an application in the interest of the Polish village, we are not only authorized to do so, but also obliged. On the basis of all these arguments, on behalf of the applicants, I request the High House to express its distrust of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel. The number of arguments I have quoted is sufficient to make such a decision. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: None! No arguments!]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u16	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Robert Telus to present the opinion of the committee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! [[I like it already.]] I was seconded to present an opinion on behalf of the committee, to present a reliable report on the committee meeting held yesterday, on the vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture. I'm gonna start with the conclusions the committee has made, because I think that's the most important thing. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development issued a negative opinion on the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress very strongly that only three of the 36 members of the Committee on Agriculture supported this proposal. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] I stress: for 36 members of the Committee on Agriculture, only three of its members, including the representative of the applicants, supported this proposal. It shows support, it's like a whole summary of this proposal. [[Applause]] [[How many people voted?]] Only three parliamentarians supported the proposal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: How many people voted?]] Ladies and gentlemen, many opinions have been presented on this proposal. Some, Mr. Marshal, I will not quote, because I am in the High House, and I would not like to quote those words that fell: that it is garbage that it is a piece of paper that should be in the basket and not in the Seym. [[Voice from the hall: There were no such words.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's in the Seym. I don't think we should be referring to that kind of conclusion. But surely, Mr. Marshal and ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the opinion of the farmers, the agricultural organisations who were at the committee meeting. Because I think that this sentence - apart from us, politicians - is the most important thing. Dear Members of the Polish People's Party, Mr Marshal, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a representative of the Polish People's Party, a representative of the Polish People's Party, who has represented Polish People's Party many times on electoral lists to the county, on letters to the Sejm, even on letters to the European Parliament, this man who represents the most important organization, an organization which is legally established, in laws, throughout the legal mechanism, said that farmers are pleased with the work of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He said that the directions that this government has taken with Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Jurgel are good that this is going in the right direction. I think, ladies and gentlemen, I should even finish my speech here... [[Yeah, bravo! Stop it!]] ...because that was the most important sentence. Farmers' representatives and - once again - I do not know if its members, but the people who represent the Polish People's Party, said that agricultural matters in Poland go in the right direction... [[Voice from the room: "Concretes!"]] ...that farmers trusted this minister, trusted this government, and the farmers want this minister to continue. And that's the most important sentence. But there were other opinions. Another representative of agricultural organisations very strongly stressed one issue, which I think it would be good for this to happen - you Members should hear before the vote. This representative of agricultural organizations said that Polish People's Party has no moral right to make such a conclusion, because for 18 years the Polish People's Party has been responsible for all that is wrong in agriculture at the moment, and earlier, dear country - because this has to be emphasized - the United People's Party. ZSL was responsible for Polish agriculture. [[Yes, sir!]] And this was said by the farmer's representative, ladies and gentlemen, not us, Members. Because we, Members, can - we know - practice politics, but it is farmers who emphasize that the Polish People's Party has no moral right to make such a proposal. Dear Members of the committee have also referred to these allegations, to those very weak allegations which have been presented. Of course, that was the sentence, and I would also like to stress that every opposition has the right to apply for a vote of distrust. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a democratic country and I must tell you that this was the case. But if that is the case, he should be at least serious. Today, the applicant's representative discovered himself in some way, because after 2 hours of discussion he said: Now I will be serious. That means he's just treating this proposal the way it looks. He's being ridiculous and he's trying to make fun of it. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about a very important issue, about Polish agriculture. As far as points are concerned, maybe I will discuss not everything that was presented in the committee, but the first ones - the most important ones. Raising the retirement age for farmers. Dear Members, also Minister, they have simply shown the hypocrisy of the Polish People's Party, because it is the Polish People's Party in that term of office... [[Voice from the Chamber: Is this a committee report?]] Yes, this is a report from the committee, sir. Mr. Marshal, I suppose I have the right to present honestly what was on the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u18	You have the right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u19	That's why I'm telling you what was on the committee. It was just explained that the Polish People's Party with the Civic Platform in that term agreed - and this was written in the Act - that the retirement age for women would be raised, dear country, by 12 years. For men farmers - 7 years old. It was agreed. And at the moment, writing this in a motion to express a vote of distrust to the minister, who withdrew this shameful decision for Polish agriculture, shows that the whole proposal is a lie. Just like that one thing. Next thing you know, ladies and gentlemen, it's a land law. I can't listen to this anymore. Politicians of the Polish People's Party are still fighting for this for their own, of course, for their own... [[Voice from the room: Aims!]] ...for your purposes, for your activists. They can't trade land, they can't sell land to foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, the first government - and so they said, I am again presenting the report from the committee meeting, Members - which really secured the Polish land, this is the government of Mrs Beata Szydło and Mr Jurgel. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether you, activists, like it or not, this has been done. Poland's land is safe. And that's what the agriculture committee was talking about. [[This is the committee's report?]] Second thing, next point: paralysis of the paying agency. Members also recalled this situation. After the election was won by Law and Justice, the first letter that came to Minister Jurgiel's desk - I think Minister Jurgiel will confirm that - it was Mr Gross's letter... [[Forest daughters.]] ...and here read: PSL, because he was also a candidate of the Polish People's Party for a Member. The first letter that affected the Minister's desk was that the agency was not prepared to pay the area payments. Ladies and gentlemen, the money has already been paid for this. This is a disgrace. And you, ladies and gentlemen, have the audacity to write this in the Minister's appeal? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: We have.]] Are you guys writing about your mistakes? Then, ladies and gentlemen... [[This is not a committee report!]] This is a committee report, Mr President. If you don't think so, please take a look at the minutes of the committee meeting. This was said at the committee meeting. Darlings! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Embargo to the Eastern markets. It makes no sense for me to present all the votes that were cast at the Agriculture Committee, but the embargo was introduced under the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in 2014. You can draw your own conclusions. This case is written into a vote of distrust, raised in the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister Jurgiel. And one more thing. I don't want to bother you with all this anymore, I think that the State from the Civic Platform, from the Polish People's Party, who didn't take part in the meeting of this committee, will make themselves an opinion on this proposal. It is just as it was said at the beginning - African swine fever. Dear Member States, at the committee meeting, the two votes cast by those who supported this request concerned African swine fever. And today the applicant showed: here are three fires, and here are 54 fires. If you, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, had settled these three fires, today we would not have a problem. [[Everything needs to be done for you.]] You didn't settle this case, and that's why there's a problem today. It's you who hit your chests, not, ladies and gentlemen, to write such cases. [[Applause]] in the motion for the cancellation of Minister Jurgiel, who fights, who corrects your mistakes. [[Voice from the room: Sleeping!]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I repeat my opinion at the beginning: the Committee on Agriculture issued a negative opinion on this proposal, and only three Members voted in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u20	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Only the President of the Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ministers! I will present to the Parliamentary Club the opinion of the Law and Justice on the written request for a vote of distrust against the Minister for Agriculture. It is a very weak document, developed on the basis of half-truths, quarters of truths, and in part - lies. I would not like to be in the skin of an applicant or representative of a group of applicants, Mr Maliszewski, who in a two-hour speech had to raise dozens of additional threads to try to save this proposal in any way. He raised many problems, including important, difficult ones in agriculture, some of which were duped, and some of the problems were indeed important. I would like to refer to this proposal, under which you signed, also those who pretend to be leaders of the total opposition. Mr Schetyn, Mr Petru, signed this proposal. It seems that they believed the applicants too much and did not read the application, and they signed it maybe in Blanco. Because the Polish People's Party, which sees a decline in its popularity in rural areas, is trying to save itself by the principle of distracting, pointing out others and screaming at the thief, is understandable. But there were also politicians who had a separate opinion on many of the issues raised here until recently, a different opinion than the one on the basis of which the charge was made against the Minister of Agriculture. Agriculture, I ask you, is a complex system of dependence, including rural areas, which is also regulated by the European Union, the consequences of the free market, and is also subject to pressure from a globalised market, so it is worth talking about. But you have to talk at some level, not at the password level, and, once again, half truth or quarter truths. In this motion, you announced... Besides, I thought that for the two months since the first application, this proposal would be more precise. Nothing happened, but the announcements were that they would be cannons against the government of Law and Justice. Mr Maliszewski then stated that this was not about one of the government's ministers personally, but about questioning the entire policy of the Government of Law and Justice, so there were supposed to be great cannons, and it turned out that they had come down. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to only a few, seems to be the most significant charges, showing their małość and at the same time missing the truth. Some have already been cited here, as the issue of retirement age. You have raised the retirement age of farmers, probably counting on it - and that is the mentality of the scheming fox - that in subsequent government agreements, in subsequent coalitions you will continue to be in power. And then when you voted in favour of raising your age to 67 years - pressured by the Civic Platform, which never showed any interest in village affairs - you were forced to do so, but you deliberately voted in favour of it, hoping that in the next term it would be possible to unscrew it all again in some way, to bake two birds with one stone: before the elections coalition with the Platform, and then to get some unscrewing to please the farmers. It came out okay. You've raised the retirement age, and there's no doubt about it. There's also some curiosity record here, because I refer, once again, to the text: the silent consent to the liquidation of agricultural social security funds. With a mistake, because there's only one money, but I'll skip it. Silent consent. It reminds me a little bit of a situation when we, the Law and Justice, were in opposition and didn't want to comment on some stupid things. Back then, what was it called? The hostile silence of the Law and Justice. So there was never any agreement by Law and Justice to change the social security system for farmers. There have been recommendations from the European Commission, and yet it is in the European Commission that you are looking for a barely infallible oracle, there have been recommendations from 2014 - remind me who should then respond - the recommendations that the Commission made to the Member States that the farmers' security schemes should be amended and incorporated into the general system. Since our governments, the Commission has no longer dared to make such suggestions to the Polish state. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a matter of land law. She's arranged the rotation of the earth, prevented speculation. Of course, it is not the Bible, and over the next few weeks the government has announced a proposal for some adjustments, amendments, improvements to this law, but this law has fulfilled farmers' expectations. Maybe some rural activists are not able to buy land, they may regret it, but in the agricultural committee, a representative of the most important Polish agricultural organisation, which I had a great honour to manage many years ago, the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, its President, Viktor Szmulewicz, stated that this law absolutely corresponds to the expectations of farmers and is a good law. So for me, the opinion of the agricultural government is more important than the opinion of the politicians of Law and Justice. And yet... [[Oh...]] Than a sentence, I'm sorry, politicians of the Polish People's Party. I want to pick up one more thread and maybe from here. It's my nervousness. Referring to the fact that it was the peasant party that saved the Polish land after the war from collectiveisation is absolute either lack of historical knowledge or abuse. After the break-up of the peasant movement, the folk movement in 1947, after the death of Witos and the departure of Mikołajczyk then ZSL went to full cooperation with the communist nominates of Moscow. [[Applause]] [[That's the truth.]] And about the fact that Poland's village defended the state of possession and did not allow for mass development of collective farms, although it must be said that during the crucial period there were 10,000. production cooperatives which have fallen apart, 9 000. in one month, when there was no political coercion, the determination of Polish peasants was decided, not the activities of the United People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The case of restructuring and modernisation agencies. The party that left this important institution in an absolutely critical state dares criticize its preparation. I would like to remind you that the day after the Minister of Agriculture was appointed, he received a letter from the previous management, in which he was informed that there would be no direct payments because the agency was not prepared. However, we paid out for 2015, 2016, including 70% of advances and the Agency will also pay out on statutory terms for 2017. On the other hand, those who have treated this agency in this way should not be critics of its current board of directors. The case of the embargo on the eastern markets. It's kind of a mental dependence on Moscow, which has been in this party for decades, [[Applause]] and the belief that the Russian market will save Polish agriculture. By the way, as far as this most sensitive area is concerned, i.e. sadization, forensic experts claim that the Russian embargo has led to a profound change and improvement of the structure of apple cultivation in Poland, including those varieties that can sell in the world and not only in Russia. In fact, cynicism was forcing peasants for decades to practice only what could be sold on the Russian market. So please be precise here in your speeches, while reminding us that the embargo was introduced by the European Union and not by Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also touch on the volume of direct support, because here it is reminded that PiS promised to fight for an increase in direct payments. Yes, except that the budget of the European Union is being prepared - if anyone doesn't know it, then please learn - for seven-year periods. For the 2014-2020 period, you negotiated the State, the Platform Coalition and the PSL, and you agreed to such conditions. We will be responsible - and we must not change in the 7th period - for what will be after 2020. And there is already a plea against Ceuta, although I am aware that the agricultural environments are critical of the free trade agreement with Canada, but I will remind you that the government is now being criticised for its position on CETA and in the 27th vote on 6 October 2016 111 Members of the Civic Platform, including Mr Schetyna, voted in favour of the CETA agreement. It didn't bother you then, and now it does? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, more respect. We need to talk about agriculture, it is worth talking about agriculture, it is an important area of the Polish economy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But not through, I'm so sorry, ridiculous documents. The Law and Justice Club will defend the Minister of Agriculture, while we are open to discussing Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u22	Thank you, sir. Please speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Dorota Niedziela. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! A vote of distrust is a resolution of Parliament in a special vote in the system of parliamentary and cabinet governments, expressing a lack of confidence in the actions of a minister or government leading to their resignation. It is an instrument for enforcing political responsibility and minister and government. Today we want to enforce this political responsibility of the Minister because we have lost confidence in him. We have lost confidence in Minister Jurgiel's actions and consequently We see his apparent inability and inefficiencies. [[Applause]] Although there have been and will still be presented in this Chamber, promises, further descriptions of future actions, they will not freeze what has happened for two years. And this is an image of inefficiency and inefficiencies. Two-year rule is not a series of successes, but a continuous series of harmful and fatal actions. [[Applause]] [[Oh...]] Unfortunately, I don't have five hours like Minister Jurgiel to justify the motion, I have 10 minutes. And I will try to give you three basic reasons why we are in favour of this proposal. Three examples of the minister's inefficiency and inefficiencies. The first is the land law. It was said a lot, and I congratulate the applicant on his justification. It was full, detailed and fully giving everything I wanted to say, but time does not allow. The Land Act - a legitimate purpose, a failure to implement, which results in: difficulties in inheriting, blocking young farmers' access to loans, pathologies and gigantic bureaucracy that emerged on the agricultural property market. For the past year and a half, we have been hearing that the evil law on land will be changed. Mr Ardanowski has just said this, but we hear about it for a year and a half, and the talk ends. However, in municipalities where there are no zoning plans, there is still no purchase of more than 3,000. m2 under construction of a house or business activity. Each land is treated like an agricultural land, and after buying it you have to grow it for 10 years. This absurd provision hinders the development of municipalities, especially the poorest ones, but Minister Jurgiel does nothing about it. [[He's asleep.]] He liquidated the Agricultural Property Agency, threw out specialists, and his Miesiewicze need an average of a year to organize an ordinary lease bid. Inability, inefficiencies. The second most important issue at the moment is African swine fever. Two years ago, we talked about cases of ASF virus in three counties. Today we have an ASF epidemic all over Poland. Yes, sir, all over Poland. [[Applause]] [[Who told you not to shoot wild boars?]] [[Calm down.]] Because the effects of ASF apply to farmers all over Poland. As of 20 September 2017, 99 outbreaks of dormancy on farms and almost 500 cases in most of the fallen wild boars. But today, as Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgel does not challenge... calls on the government to declare a natural disaster... [[Voice from the hall: Challenge.]] Not yours. He does not apply to the Supreme Audit Chamber to investigate possible negligence, as he did in 2014 as a Member, although there were only three cases in only two counties at the time. Currently we have 98 in three voivodships, but there is no application to the Supreme Chamber of Control. In the ASF case, Minister Jurgel and his officials are inefficient and ineffective, [[Applause]] both in the control of the virus and in the elimination of losses suffered by farmers in relation to African swine fever. Contrary to the promises, Minister Jurgel did not speed up the shooting of wild boars, did not increase the underfunded inspection of measures to combat the ASF virus. [[Lie!]] He can't afford to pay compensation and compensation. It hurts. [[Applause]] Farmers are publicly complaining about the lack of real government action, for example, in relation to wild boars. We have a proposal, maybe instead of Minister Bogucki as a proxy to fight ASF, Minister Jurgel will appoint Minister Szyszko as an experienced minister. His experience and effectiveness in cutting down forests and protecting hunters' interests would be useful in the Ministry of Agriculture. Minister Szyszko may prohibit entry into the forest, use the Forest Guard, and Minister Jurgel is defenseless against hunters. The bill on hunting compensation has not worked and the proposal for a new Hunting Law has been blocked in this House for two years by Minister Szyszko and his hunters. And this is an example of the helplessness of Minister Jurgiel even towards his ministers and colleagues in the government. PiS lied during the election campaign, saying that once he came to power, he would eliminate the ASF problem without prejudice to family farms. Then he was afraid to tell his constituents that they would have to temporarily put out production and put out their pigs. Today, money for fighting ASF in Poland is available, but officials from the PiS can't help farmers effectively. Minister Jurgel has PLN 100 million for the fight against ASF, and farmers are complaining that compensation and compensation payments are a road through torment, which he heard from farmers at the meeting in Biała Podlaski, Bogucki's representative. I recommend you watch this program. The loss of your inaction, Minister, the lack of speedy decisions and the incompetence of staffed institutions and inspections goes into millions. Because of your inability, we have a serious threat to the existence of pig farming in Poland. Will Poles eat pork pork imported from Ukraine? Will carp farmers also be deprived of environmental compensation due to your inaction? Is it because of you that a colleague from the government is going to kill their carpenter farms? Will Christmas carps on our tables come from China? Minister Jurgel does not have an action plan or a complete concept of the procedure and does not deal with infectious diseases that have been combated by the public, both with ASF and with avian influenza, and - as it turned out yesterday - even with salmonella. Due to the new arrangements, poultry farmers will not receive compensation for the slaughtered flocks. Next thing you know, insurance and insurance. Even if the Minister wants to do something right, you somehow, Minister, it doesn't work out. An example is the Agricultural Insurance Act, which helped insurance companies instead of farmers. In all subordinate institutions and companies, Minister Jurgel's party army appeared, and the ministry turned into a central center for handing out stools. The effects of these actions are mournful. The best example is the total decline in prestige and importance of Polish breeding of Arabian pure horses in the world. Our horses have disappeared from the world's arenas. No more trophies, no more shows in Paris, in Verona. Polish taxpayers have been adding Polish taxpayers to the auction in Janów for 2 years, and still the PiS officers appointed by Minister Jurgiel can only sell six horses. Minister Jurgel claims that this is how he protects Polish genes, and at that time he leases abroad the most valuable Polish mares from which they are collected - until recently hated by Minister Jurgel - embryos. It's outrageous. [[Applause]] At the end of the GUS study. The retail price of butter has increased by 42% over the last year. Next [[♪ The bell ♪]] last year jumps: apples - 28%, pork - 24%. This is the most tangible effect of Minister Jurgiel's actions: raging food prices, chaos in subordinate institutions and offices and angry farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u24	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u25	To conclude, the Platform Club will support the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister, because Minister Jurgiel must leave for the good of agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u26	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Krzysztof Jurgiel. A vote of distrust is an instrument for enforcing the responsibility of the Minister, who expresses a lack of confidence in his activities. It's a necessary instrument. The right to apply for a vote of distrust is very much enjoyed by total opposition. From the beginning of our term of office we have a festival of spectacular attempts to dismiss ministers. Further proposals, and hence the debate, are nothing more than political theatre, which has nothing to do with substantive work. The roles are filled, the issues of both sides - known for a long time, the ending also does not surprise anyone. We are all wasting our time and energy on futile, fruitless verbal push-ups, instead of dealing with the real problems of the countryside and agriculture, which are very few, starting with the ineffective fight against the ASF, for which the Minister of the Environment is the main responsibility - and this is a very great reservation of farmers and many parliamentarians - the Minister of Agriculture is responsible for eliminating the production of pigs in small and medium-sized farms with its regulations, and it must end with a lack of stability on the agricultural markets. However, it is not about the countryside and agriculture that applicants are concerned, although of course everyone argues that care about Polish farmers, about ensuring development, better competitiveness and profitability of agricultural holdings is the main goal. However, if that were the case, the total opposition would be working to prepare solutions that are beneficial for agriculture, laws that will not block the development of entrepreneurship among farmers or eliminate new sectors of agricultural production are growing. Today's debate is a clear example of the fact that neither the government nor the total opposition have an idea for agriculture. PSL, the author of this proposal, due to the upcoming local elections and the further lack of an idea for Polish agriculture, wishes to appear in the media and remind itself. Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, who gives the PSL proposal, I think, a deliberate favor to Minister Jurgiel, because instead of weakening the Minister, he strongly strengthens his position in the government. There is no doubt that both sides will benefit from the performance today. It's just a pity that farmers won't benefit from anything. Apparently, for the authors of the proposal, and for the Ministry of Agriculture, this is a secondary matter. On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I would like to stress that we do not agree to such treatment of matters important for Poles, for farmers, for villagers. Since the beginning of the year, we have already put in place more than 15 agricultural and peri-agricultural laws, which have not received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture, even though they are supported by farmers. Worse still, the Ministry, instead of using our projects to make urgent and necessary changes, prepares its own, for which it is necessary to wait for months. A few weeks ago, at the session of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture, Members agreed that the system of direct payments did not work positively with regard to allowing non-agricultural persons to benefit from these subsidies, i.e. fraud, it can be said. So-called. Rural farmers buy or lease meadows and collect payments. There needs to be a revision of the rules that will allow payments to be made to those who are actually farmers. Such a proposal was submitted by Mr Kukiz15 a year ago. We have many such examples. Identically incomprehensible is the ministry's position on the law on the sale of processed food by farmers through shops. During the election campaign, a number of representatives of Law and Justice spoke about the need for considerable facilitation for farmers in the case of the sale of processed food. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, politicians of Law and Justice also gave peans on the idea of selling processed food in shops. What about the Ministry of Agriculture? He's against it. Here I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda for supporting the solutions presented in our project, which we are not the only ones calling for. These solutions are advocated by both farmers and consumers who are looking for good, healthy and tasty food. There are a lot of projects we've put together. They're waiting to be processed. I can tell you about a few more. A project on agricultural chambers giving farmers control over their own money. Farmers should decide for themselves whether they are better represented by farmers, agricultural chambers or trade unions. Another law is the law on the use of habitats in the case of non-agricultural activities. We have already heard in this House today about the fact that police stations are returning to the country, the post offices are coming back, and well, let them return, but let us move on. In the country there should be all the services that are in the cities. Why isn't it here? The project is blocked. Another project that farmers are waiting for to sell their good products as well as consumers is a bill on GMO-free food labelling throughout the production process. It is difficult to disagree with the applicant here. We buy meat from animals that were fed genetically modified soybeans. And there's a chance to change that. Let's give people a choice. In the store, we should have a choice as to whether we want such food or not. A simple law that operates in many countries of the European Union. My and consumers' request to the Prime Minister that this bill be processed very quickly. There's a few more laws I can tell you about, but there's no time for that. My further objection concerns the failure to take into account the amendments tabled by the opposition Members, including Kukiz,15, when the laws are being adopted. The Minister seems to have a monopoly on knowledge that only the solutions proposed by the government are appropriate. Even if some mechanism does not work properly, it is common to believe that the law is not the Bible, it can always be changed. The result of such action are bubble laws, such as the Polish Product Act, which in 1/4 can consist of imported raw materials. This supposedly Polish product can be produced by a German, French, Dutch company. Where are the great slogans of Deputy Minister Morawiecki to strengthen Polish industry, Polish production? I've made these adjustments. They were simply recklessly rejected. PSL, PO and PIS still follow the principle, which is: in politics, where two fight, they both use it. As a contention, Kukiz15 does not intend to take part in such a ladolic dance, so despite the lack of discipline in our club, I will highly recommend to my colleagues that they abstain from voting and not participate in this political theatre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u28	Thank you. Before I ask Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer to speak, I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by the Lublin Youth Council. Hello, young people. [[Applause]] And please take the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! We are debating today the request to appeal from the position of Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, but if the name of the position taken by the Minister were to be examined so much further, and to refer to the actual work of the Minister, I think that this would only be the term of the Minister. In the case of Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, it is very difficult to say that agriculture, the village and its inhabitants and its development are at his heart in any way. It's very strange that the Minister is showing this concern. The best symbol of the efficiency of the Minister is the degrengolada of horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów and the Pride of Poland auctions. Don't you know how to destroy a business that has been profitable for many years, but also proud of Poland? Ask Minister Jurgel. By the time he tampered with the studs, both studs were internationally well known. The whole world envied us. They had a reputation for one of the best Arabian horse breedings, famous people kept their horses there. They had, because after the 2015 elections, long-term presidents of studs, apolitical professionals really with many years of experience were replaced by random activists of the United Right, often without experience in the industry. And from the Minister we heard: It is all possible to obtain and it does not have to be a first-class specialist, it has to breed professionals. The new president also said that he felt that the horses would become his hobby. It turned out that horse breeding could not be started by managing the stud. In other words, you can't learn to operate on an open patient. The horses died and with them the good name of the stud. 2 years after personal changes that were to bring a good change, breeders avoid the Arabian Arabian horses Pride of Poland auction with a wide bow. This year's auction results speak for themselves. The proceeds from the auction are only 410 thousand. The euro, and 2 years ago it was 4 million euros. If we compare these numbers, you can see how you can destroy something that worked well. You've done something here. In a short time, you were able to turn your pride into a Polish shame. [[Applause]] Let's move on. In April 2016, a law was passed on the formation of an agricultural system which is contrary to the Constitution. It contradicts it because it is an attempt on private property of landowners, lowers the value of agricultural property and, worst of all, hinders the sale of land in difficult situations of life. Very often this land was a security, and at the time of the introduction of such a law, which restricts property, people in random situations can't normally use their property in the world. You, Minister, have practically completely blocked the polishness of the land out of dubious concern. Free land trading in our country. This is a retreat of the Polish village to the time of a deep commune. This law completely halted the extremely necessary changes in the Polish countryside, but nothing strange, since you still do not have a vision and strategy for the development of Polish agriculture. Today, you are destroying companies, commodity holdings, which constitute the strength of Polish exports, are the glory of Poland outside the country, focusing only on the support of small and inefficient social farms. In this way, it has never been compared to German, French or Danish agriculture. Old Union farmers conquer markets while you dream of returning to the PGRs. The identification mark and symbol of the government in which you are sitting have become the Bear and all kinds of staff merry-go-rounds. You didn't stop yourself from getting involved in this merry-go-round, either. People put into agricultural agencies turned out to be as incompetent as stud bosses in Janów and Michałów. Ever since PiS took over, we've been having problems with the IT system all the time. This results in delays in both direct and agri-environmental payments. Through this mess of yours and too late the agricultural minister's agreement with insurers could not insure farmers this year on the date of cultivation and plantations. The agricultural insurance system is still inefficient. Now, after the storms, we also know that farmers can't count on the help of the agricultural minister when they're actually in poverty. Before the elections, the PiS spoke a lot about higher direct payments. You have assured us that they will double them, that they will provide the same standard as farmers in other European countries. And what have you done today to ensure that the subsidies received by Polish farmers are as high as in the countries of the old Union? Minister, tell me: Where are you at? Present the documents you submitted to Polish farmers in Brussels. Poland needs money for development. In Poland, the average rate of aid is EUR 207, in Germany - EUR 308, and in Denmark - EUR 346. What did you do about it? The Minister's fight against African swine fever is also a sign of inadequacies, because as far as the fight against ASF is concerned, it has not been possible to obtain up to 1/10 of the funds from the Union that you were expecting and the number of outbreaks The ASF scares us all and reaches 100 - there are 99 of them. But I am afraid that we in Poland will at some point go down to one ASF fire, only it will cover the whole of Poland. Minister, without a consistent programme to combat these diseases, without increasing subsidies from the budget that will compensate farmers for the eradication of stocks, we will not cure this production. Farmers also complain about the dead hunting damage bill. It seems that the hunting lobby is very well in this government. The law is theoretical and the damage to farmers is quite practical. Wake up. It's time to get on with it. Finally, Minister, why are you destroying producer groups? Why don't you create the conditions for their development? Not only do we have the largest number of farms in the European Union - 1.4 million, a very high percentage of agricultural workers - more than 12% and the average area of farms of only 10 hectares, we do not build structures that would support Polish farmers, which are common in Western European countries. Small farms will never be competitive. The production of Polish pork is in ruins. The lack of a programme for the development of this industry causes an increasing import of meat, really. Ladies and gentlemen, it is actually outrageous that in a country that has such traditions and opportunities, we keep importing pork. When are you gonna do something about KRUS? How long will pseudo-farmers use it? When are you gonna reform the insurance system so we don't pay so much for it? In fact, the KRUS should be eliminated at all. And from my plot: Why should not all children be covered in the supply of milk, fruit and vegetables? Why are we shutting some of the kids out of this program? Did you run out of money? Do you really think the high price of butter is the reason for the joy of Poles? Was your goal really to bring about a situation where the price of butter is higher than the price of octopus? I don't think the Poles will forget that either. Minister, there is no doubt that you are a misfortune for the Polish village. The Modern Club will vote in favour of your dismissal as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u30	Please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It is true that there is often more theatre, politics, often even very violent words on this platform. But today Mirosław Maliszewski presented the most substantive, competent proposal [[Applause]] for the removal of the Minister of Agriculture and motivated him with many examples. In colloquially speaking, Mirosław Maliszewski plowed Minister Jurgiel from this speaker today. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] PiS, along with Minister Jurgiel... [[Voice from the room: Quiet down there.]] ...deceived, [[♪ The bell ♪]] took advantage of and rejected the Polish village. You cheated, going to the election first with the slogan that Poland is in ruins. Prime Minister Morawiecki said a few weeks ago it was such a marketing stunt. There were more of those marketing tricks because you talked about double surcharges. Prime Minister 18 July 2015 as the candidate for Prime Minister in Odrywole said this: If the PiS wins the elections, Polish farmers will receive the same subsidies as farmers in other EU countries. What happened to it? [[And it will be.]] You weren't supposed to fight... [[And it will be.]] You won the election two years ago. The Prime Minister gave an exposé 700 days ago. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Over these 700 days, farmers have not received double payments. And you win, you rule on your own. No party referring to the rural electorate has ever had the opportunity to implement its programme. You have not asked the European Union to double your subsidies, you have done absolutely nothing in this direction. You haven't done anything at all. I will also refer to the speeches, the statements that were falling today, the history of the folk movement. Thank you so much for remembering him. [[We'll remember.]] If it hadn't been for Stanisław Mikołajczyk [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and PSL after World War II, this Polish agriculture would be collectiveised. If it weren't for his resistance and really the first solidarity of the Polish People's Party. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Then there was the activity that was possible in ZSL. Yeah, that's part of the folk movement, too. In this activity you can show very good examples of introducing pensions and pensions for farmers in the 1970s, free medical care. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You know what? You have such a negative opinion about ZSL. Then ask Wojciechowski's friend Kuzmiuk, they were in ZSL. I don't have that critical opinion. [[Applause]] I will defend all those who served as best as they could in the times of the Polish People's Republic, Polish village and Polish agriculture, introducing pensions and pensions. The year 1989 comes and the people's movement plays a very important role. In a peaceful change - no blood spilled on Polish streets, and KRUS is introduced thanks to PSL. [[Shame on you.]] Later we participate and negotiate with Jarosław Kalinowski at the head of the entry into the European Union. We achieve the result twice as much as the SLD and Leszek Miller assumed here in Poland, and we negotiate it in Brussels. [[Applause]] You said you supported the entry into the European Union, but you did not help in these negotiations. It's time for another coalition. And before that is typing, as Mirosław Maliszewski said, a family farm as the basis of the system. And then there's the modernization of the Polish village. How did the Polish village change? We need to be really white in front of us so that we do not see the changes that Polish farmers have made with the participation of European funds, with the participation of local authorities, over the past years. You don't want to see that. We are not perfect, but you have deceived the Polish village and the Polish farmer at many programme points, and you are not fulfilling what you have promised. ASF, there was a lot. Everything can be lied to, but there were three fires 15 km from the border with Belarus, and there are 99. You don't have an idea for this. [[You called Kalemba, but you couldn't handle it.]] You know what farmers say at meetings? In Rudniki you were Minister Bogucki, who is responsible for ASF. At this meeting, farmers showed legitimacy, decorations, meritorious agriculture granted by Minister Jurgiel, and they said, "What are you doing with us today? I quote, "This is a horror movie, what are you doing to us?" This is human despair. She's the one that needs to be leaned over. You can't screw up everything - eight years, eight years. [[You've been in charge for 18 years.]] I know the Prime Minister is about to come out and say, "We've introduced 500+, we've reduced retirement age." 500+, yes, it helped in the country. We supported this bill, she's a continuation of family policy. Very good of you to do it. When it comes to retirement age, don't cheat anymore. 30 Members of the PSL have negotiated in difficult negotiations that they have 5 years to preserve their rights for men and women: 55 years for women, 60 years for men. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We thought, yes, Mr Ardanowski said well, we were hoping that we would have an impact on the government in the next parliament and extend this solution. We never thought that the party that won the election, often referring to the village, would change that decision. [[Voice from the hall: And he will take away the farmers...]] He'll change the decision you proposed to the president. He wanted to extend 55 years and 60 years. That's the bill he sent to the Sejm. You changed it, no one else. We filed the bill - let's extend it by five years. Guarantee what PSL has to offer. Two years after our governments, we guaranteed the age of 55 for women and 60 for men. In fact, the comparison is simple: in our governments there was an early retirement for farmers, during your governments this early retirement will cease to function. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] When it comes to nutrition, a very important topic, I cannot understand why, with the good economic situation you are bragging about, you are taking the regulation, unfortunately, Prime Minister, of 18 August 200 million from the programme for vegetables and fruit at school and a glass of milk. 700,000. Kids... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...is eliminated from this program. There are young people here from the Lublin Youth Council. Well, unfortunately, sixth graders won't get a glass of milk, vegetables and fruit at school this year. You've eliminated it. [[That's not true.]] It's in the Prime Minister's order... [[What do you mean, no?]] ...from August 18th, unfortunately. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[There's a regulation.]] You're gonna say, "We gave you 500+." And class VI also includes only children and children from large families whose older children are over 18 years of age. Moreover, even from this regulation, which has been operating for many years in the European Union and since the beginning of Poland's entry into the Union in Poland, you have eliminated part of the fruit, e.g. American blueberry. I understand it as if it were Soviet blueberry, German blueberry - unpolitical according to your strategy. [[Applause]] - so she could be eliminated. But ally blueberry American? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We're one of her biggest producers. It's a hit on the kids, but it's also a hit on the farmers who make it. As far as the culture of the Polish village is concerned, because it is a matter of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, the last harvests are a raid of customs and treasure services on the circles of rural hostels. This is unacceptable. It's our tradition, our culture, we have to take care of it. [[Applause]] and strengthen it. Abolish the embargo. We were able to return to economic cooperation with Russia after your reigns in 2005 and 2007 when Marek Sawicki became Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. You guys haven't made any changes in this direction for two years. [[And 14?]] You haven't made any changes. There was talk of China. It's a very good direction, we support it. Just to sell something to China, you have to go through Russia, through Siberia, because this is the shortest way. If there is an embargo on Polish products in Russia, we will never sell them to China. You can't open this market with symbols. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Farmers ask at meetings what about penalties for exceeding milk quotas. But in the campaign, you promised you'd throw it all away. Who'd you cut off? Show examples. Today's debate is intended not only to show the mistakes of the Minister of Agriculture, although there are dozens of them, but there is no other such case. We have nothing against the Minister's person, but to wrong decisions, to omissions, to deceive, exploit and reject the Polish village. That's why we wanted this. Today to say everything, Prime Minister. I even saw Mirosław Maliszewski speak, as at some moments you were surprised to hear about some elements, because you may not know all this. Today we open our eyes to the problems of Polish agriculture. This debate is not sometimes lost... [[I wish it wasn't until now.]] ...because we've shown you where your mistakes are. You have a chance to fix them, you have 100%. Power. You can change that. Just start telling the truth, not cheating, just like before the election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, we ask that the worst Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel be recalled in the history of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u32	Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Niesiołowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After Mr Maliszewski's excellent speech, I should have just the thing to say that I support this speech, and I agree with all of them. I've got a few small remarks, though. Minister, you could actually start this speech: it's time to get up in the morning, give the horses water, because for the rest of your life you'll be associated with the horse. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Lord has committed such a pogrom of horses as the charge under Somosierra. So I must congratulate you. In this government, in this brilliant government, the best, of course, in all Polish history, it is probably clear - if someone does not think so, it has a treacherous face, is an agent and marketer - such as Mrs Szydło, known for her truthfulness, Mr Błaszczak, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Or moral dozens like the praying Mrs Kempa, you're a very famous person. I must say that you are a strong point, but in general you cannot be blamed for excessive diligence. And here it was said that you assigned a peasant to the land, that you took property from the peasants, replaced it with a lease. You act, you might say, in the direction set by a quick march to the Polish People's Republic. But they say there's information on the Internet - if you could relate to it - that people buy bags of land on which Jarosław Kaczyński walked. If that's true, then I wanted to buy this bag and carry this bag on my heart. And this is somehow Polish soil. You're the protector... [[Agricultural land.]] Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Stefan, what about the raisins?]] Keep it down, keep it down, PiS suckers. Keep it down, keep it down, PiS suckers. [[Louder, louder.]] Kaczynski's not here, so he can't see you. Mr. Minister, is this the problem that we have here... [[Till he got some air.]] ...he was moved, and here actually there were many, many threads that you would stop trading the land, that you were completely helpless against African swine fever, that you were actually instead of... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] Gentlemen, I know it annoys you, but there's nothing I can do about it. You have a terrible minister and interference, interrupting isn't gonna do you any good. Mr. Jurgel won't be better. [[But he's going to be a minister.]] Do those threads that have been presented here many times - I do not want to remind them, to appeal to them - in your speech will you be able to make a substantive reference, because criticism was devastating? Total helplessness, inaction on hunting law, inaction on swine fever and many others. I would very much expect you not to give clichés and clichés, as you customarily do, or scream like Mrs. Szydło and threaten, or speak of treacherous murders like your hero in Żoliborz, just to make a substantive reference to the serious charges that have fallen. Inaction after the storms. I hear people still live in tents, Mr. Jurgiel. Of course, here we heard how great the government worked, how Błaszczak was meeting, how he was talking, but the facts are that people still - and nothing that waving their hands will help you - live in tents. So that I would very much like to hear whether it's true or not. Just a little bit more about GMOs. Gentlemen, here's my only little remark: GMOs are everything. Cereals, fruits, plants, meat - it's all GMOs. So you guys decide something in this room -- that's what I'm talking to everyone at the same time -- because the PiS is doing something like this: it's fighting GMOs, it's saying it's absurd, it's like someone's fighting transplants, transfusions, antibiotics, vaccines. You can't fight GMOs. PiS says yes: Poland free of GMOs. And here you folks accuse that PiS doesn't actually do it, that is to say, it introduces GMOs. But everyone introduces, there's no other option, there's nothing to fight at all, you have to do the opposite. This is the only note to everyone: let's finish the idiotic bidding on GMOs, because everything we eat, what we dress up, is GMOs. [[Exactly. Exactly.]] Therefore, this lie should not be duplicated. Only the cowardly PiS is afraid, of course, because for him GMOs are something besides abortion, euthanasia. Because they're unlearned, they don't know what it really is. But I would ask other clubs to finish this idiotic, chuckle-dance around the decommissioning of GMOs, because everything you eat and do is GMOs. The whole development of humanity came from the fact that wild plants were modified and those plants were domesticated. And one last remark - about the pig. That's the only thing I disagree with. It is not the fault, sir, that he was domesticated and became a pig. And I wouldn't blame Minister Jurgel for that. [[But four-legged.]] One thing is, the boar has become a pig, and I would leave Mr. Jurgiel alone, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because wild people were domesticated in many countries without Mr. Jurgel and before Mr. Jurgel. [[Applause]] [[I'm gonna go for a piss.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u34	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Polish People's Party! Because the speakers were Mr. Maliszewski, Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lost more than 3 hours as the Parliament of the Republic of Poland to call such a hucpa concerning a potential appeal from your point of view from the Minister of Agriculture. [[And you didn't find out anything?]] I think, High Izbo, that such analyses concerning the agricultural market or agricultural problems are needed as much as possible, should be considered in the High House, but not in the form of an application for an appeal from the Minister. It is the Prime Minister of the Government who is to judge the Minister's work and to account for his performance or failure to perform his duties. This is another example of a political hucpa just for media use. Apparently, in your polls the numbers are weakening enough that today it was necessary to take more than 3 hours to talk to the Polish Sejm about the cancellation of the Minister of Agriculture. And again, the state of total opposition will be able to say that the Seym under the cover of the night - because when we're done today's session, it will be after an hour. 24, maybe even after hours. One, he's passed some kind of bill. And referring to several allegations, because my time is shorter than the PSL countries, I can say this: regarding Polish Arabian horse studs, please, yes, the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have led to a fall or a decrease in the level of these studs... [[Why?]] ...or at least it was a conscious policy to extract genetic lines, breeding lines of Arabian horses. [[Applause]] Why, ladies and gentlemen? And this is because - it may not be so common to hear about this as the auction failed this year - that the state, then heads of these studs both in Janów and in Michałów sold embryos, sold embryos of the best Polish stallions and breeding mares. Several hundred commercial farms were created in Arab countries, in Asian countries. This reduced, weakened the entire Arabian horse market in the world, reduced prices. There is also a reason for the actions of people who have been released from these studs, such as Mrs Anna Stoyanowska, former inspector from the Agricultural Property Agency, Mr Marek Trela, former president of the stud in Janów Podlaski, Mr Jerzy Białobok, president of the stud in Michałów... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But that is not true.]] These are the people who, as Mrs Stoyanowska emphasized, have created a new auction in Michałowice near Krakow and there, gentlemen, are sold horses from all over the world, not only from Polish studs. So, yes, you could say, out of love for horses. I'd ask if it was out of love for money. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] About ASF. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. If you say there were three ASF fires a few years ago, then why didn't you, as a coalition then, as a government of PO-PSL, bring those fires to an end? It was easier. [[Applause]] You had all the tools, you had the possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say that this argument is simply populist because it is not the job of the Minister of Agriculture. This is the task of the Minister of the Environment, and the Minister of Agriculture, in terms of the responsibilities entrusted to him, to combat the effects of the ASF, is doing well with these tasks. And then there's the retirement age issue. Well, Mr. Chairman Kosiniak-Kamish, because you used that word here that Mr. Maliszewski plowed the Minister of Agriculture. Gentlemen, gentlemen, they're deceiving the Polish public. Gentlemen lie, misleading public opinion, [[Applause]] That's... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Arguments.]] ...for retirement age. After all, this country and its coalitionist, the Civic Platform, have increased the retirement age, because the retirement age of farmers was supposed to apply according to the old version. Only until the end of 2017, and then the age - what? - 67 years old. [[Voice from the room: Not necessarily.]] 67 years for women and men. [[Voice from the room: He didn't have to come in.]] It is the current government - and the current Sejm - that has reduced the retirement age you have raised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote against expressing a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u36	Thank you. And there's still time for the Modern Club. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u37	Minister! Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, There's not much time left, but there's a little summary of everything that's happened here. You were supposed to protect the Polish land from foreigners, and - as it was already here - you protected it from citizens. In 2015, foreigners in Poland acquired 420 ha of land, and in 2016 - 3200 ha, and a citizen who would like for example. solve financial problems because the bailiff is after him, he can't sell his property in a light way today, just getting rid of the problems. ASF. The Minister's independence today led to 99 fires. You blame the previous government for having three bonfires, didn't strangle them in the bud, but how many bonfires did you inherit in 2015? You could've shown up, too. Three fires could be suffocated, Minister, and you only have one song to say about it all the time: for the last eight years. You have nothing specifically to offer Poles in this area, and we are just before the tragedy of the industry. Damages after storms best show how you solve the current problems of people in the countryside. First, you told the farmers that all those who suffered losses would get aid. Then it turned out that the losses were too high, so you sent the farmers back to the banks for cheap loans. And in the end, you've prepared the criteria for obtaining compensation so that no one can take advantage of them. The same is true of the criteria, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot could be said of the criteria under which you share the land with the Agricultural Property Agency. Land from the Agricultural Property Agency...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u38	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u39	...should reach farmers once and for all and stop being the subject of political fairs in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u40	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u41	No strategy, no idea, no skill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u42	Thank you, Member. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u43	Okay, Minister, you won't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u44	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, speak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about the minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, before I begin, to refer to the arguments that have been presented here, and also to thank all Polish farmers warmly. Recently we celebrated harvests and there was an opportunity not only to present the achievements of the Polish village, but also to outline plans. It was very good for the Minister to speak during these celebrations, during which he presented the plans for Polish farmers. However, we must all remember that the situation in the village, which is today, is primarily due to Polish farmers, who constitute not only for the Polish economy, but also for all of us the basis of patriotism, Polishness, tradition and economy. And that's what they deserve to be thanked for. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could start by quoting a classic and say, for the last eight years... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...but it doesn't suit your PSL MPs, because when I counted how many years you've been in the government... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: 18.]] ...in the Third Republic, it's been 18 years. [[Bravo!]] Exactly 18 years of PSL in various configurations, whether with liberals or communists or leftists, you took responsibility, took responsibility for the situation in the Polish village. Today, in the proposal presented here, you tried to show and summarize the situation from the period of just 2 years of the rule of law and justice, while during these 2 years our government must reverse the very negative decisions that you have made for the Polish village, or possibly change them, to change them. This everything that has been said here shows how many negligence and how much it was necessary to do for the Polish village. And over these nearly two years, the rule of law and justice has really achieved a great deal, and the plans he spoke about, among others. Minister Jurgel in the Parliamentary Committee, who also presented from this speaker, shows how many more projects are still to be carried out. The proposal is so surprising that it goes to the Sejm when the Polish village is in the best condition for years. [[Applause]] When I entrusted Minister Krzysztof Jurgel with the mission of rebuilding Polish agriculture and the Polish village, this scale of negligence and mismanagement was huge. First of all, Minister Jurgiel began to implement the plan that he had prepared before the election campaign, when Law and Justice were in opposition. And it was the great work of Minister Jurgiel and the team that created and prepared the plans and projects that are being implemented today under the Government of Law and Justice programme. Indeed, it has been said many times here about issues concerning these most important issues, to which, let me refer, I will not touch on the whole spectrum anymore, but I will perhaps start with the Polish land. In fact, at the beginning of the office a decision was taken to stop the sale of the state land. It was a great expectation of farmers, finally fulfilled. I remember that when we met farmers, especially in Western Poland, in the north, in West Pomerania, there these people showed us the scale of the problem. And there was no reaction from the then Polish government, even, I would say, to the uncontrolled sale of land to foreigners and national speculators of land. Famous sales for so-called. poles. This method sold the land from the resources of the State Treasury and it went to foreign entities. [[Now he's selling to the Church.]] Therefore, among others. it was necessary to amend the law, to introduce solutions that would protect the Polish land. And that's what happened. I think it can be said that this sale of Polish land, which has been mentioned many times here by you, is perhaps on a smaller scale, is certainly a less publicised scandal, but is as harmful as trade in Warsaw's tenement houses. Those were the times for this government. Thanks to Minister Krzysztof Jurgel's actions, the sale of land on poles has ended, and you are making this an accusation at the moment. Of course, after a year of operation of this law, there are some proposals and changes will be made, as the Minister has already said at the committee meeting. You are accusing the minister of the loss of Polish farmers and Sadists caused by the Russian embargo on apples. It has already been said here that the embargo was introduced in 2014 and there was no response from the government, perhaps beyond the words of the then Minister of Agriculture of PSL, who at that time helped the farmers and Sadists who suffered losses and, I will remind you, mocked them. I may not be very parliamentary here, but it's a quote from the Minister who called farmers losers he doesn't respect. That's what happened back then. [[Applause]] [[That's right, that's right.]] I would also like to be very clear and clear, ladies and gentlemen, because, when talking about these sanctions, the embargo on apples was also mentioned that the government should demand the abolition of these sanctions. So I want to make it clear: there will be no agreement by the Government of Law and Justice, the Polish Government, to abolish sanctions against Russia until it meets its Minsk commitments. There's no room for negotiation here, none at all. This is the position of the Polish government. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Of course, we realize that it is necessary to open new markets for Polish agricultural products. Therefore, at a time when men from total opposition side by side with representatives of CODE marched in marches and protested against the Polish government when the street and abroad were operating, the Minister of Agriculture negotiated the opening of new markets for Polish agricultural products and today we are sending these products to more than 30 new countries. These are among others. Japan, Indonesia, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Ukraine, Morocco, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Egypt, Macedonia, China, Turkey, Montenegro, India, Kazakhstan, Côte d'Ivoire, South Africa, Brazil, Cuba, USA, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Moldova or Chile. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] This is the policy of the Polish government. We will try to open even more of these markets for Polish agricultural products. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński said that our country cannot give up its own national policy towards villages and agriculture. Law and Justice have such a policy. Agriculture, processing and rural development are strategic in the government's plan for responsible development. What alternative did Polish farmers have in previous governments? The issues of the Polish countryside and agriculture were treated as a margin of economic and social policy. Let me remind you that also in the negotiations on the current financial perspective of the European Union, farmers were sacrificed by the then government. This was the case then, and although PSL is talking about it today, after nearly 24 months of work it tries to summarize the work of the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice and demands that all declarations or commitments that were made by us be fulfilled, I will say this: we will do all the electoral commitments because the business card of the Government of Law and Justice, the brand of the Government of Law and Justice is to keep our word and our electoral obligations. [[Applause]] On the other hand, as far as these 18 years are concerned, as you have rightly told me here, the participation of PSL in various configurations in the government, and after all you started your way to power as ZSL in 1989, we cannot say that this has translated into a good situation in the Polish village. I would like to remind you once again that at the moment, after the changes made, the projects, the programs, also the 500+ programme, which, I have the impression, is so enchanting that you do not know what to do with it... The fact that the situation of Polish families, especially families in the countryside, because more than 60% of the funds from this program are going to the children in the Polish village, has improved, is a problem for you. I understand that, but really, ladies and gentlemen, today people, if you go to the Polish countryside, say with satisfaction that they can finally live a decent life, they may not be worried that their children have a worse situation than children in cities. There was talk of... It was because we returned to the policy of sustainable development, and after all, the government of the Platform and PSL led a policy which was supposed to hit the Polish village, in the district Poland. It was primarily the focus on large centers, and it was Poland that was to be left to itself. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the hall: Poland in ruins?]] [[Yes, sir!]] I know it's a problem for you today that you must be ashamed that you've been shutting down schools, police stations, post offices, communications - that's your shame. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we bring it all back and we bring it back, because no matter where anyone lives, what conditions they have to live, they have to have the same chances. And that was clearly what we said at the beginning of our governments. There was a reference to the post office, so I will correct some data, because I have the impression that the applicant has not fully quoted the real data. So, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 there were 2801 post offices in the Polish village, in 2015 - 2631 and in 2017 there were 2634. [[Applause]] Since in 2014 you started the process of liquidating post offices in the countryside... [[That's what they did, that's what they did.]] ...years 2015 and 2016 was the time you were eliminating them. [[In 2016 we were eliminating?]] We are restoring them at the moment and it will be one of the institutions that will be in the Polish village. Unlike you, we also protect farmers from negative phenomena and increase their income. There was talk of buying-in prices. For us the situation of farmers is important, so we have stabilized the situation on the market for pigmeat and milk. At the moment, a liter of milk costs an average... [[How much?]] ...PLN 1.40, while the price of the living is 5.50 and it used to be 4.70. [[Voice from the room: Butter!]] [[Butter!]] These are, of course, just examples. [[Voice from the hall: What about butter?]] [[What about the meat?]] Finally, I must say that it was also mentioned here that you are calling for a country, you are talking about your concern for farmers. [[What about retirement age?]] So, in fact, when it comes to insurance, in your day, you didn't care at all about the issue, and our government has put in place solutions that are supposed to help with the insurance of farmers. And remind me, PSL voted for this bill, didn't it? The one you criticized here today - for insurance for farmers. You voted for this bill because it's a good bill, and you know it's just necessary. I would also like to say a few more things that are being carried out in the countryside at the moment. First of all, Minister Jurgel has also undertaken a change, a reform of the administration and leads to all these institutions, agencies that serve the Polish village, so that the inspections that control Polish farmers are as low as possible. At the same time, I would also like to say that it is not true that there have been any delays in payment of direct payments. There was a problem, indeed there was a problem, because the system, which was left after the government of the Platform and PSL, simply did not work and had to make changes, but the Minister had dealt with it well and were already paid not only in time, but last year and this year also in the amount of an unprecedented advance on direct payments. I want to talk about one more thing, because there was also a lot of talk about personal policy, about change. Indeed, changes in many institutions serving Polish agriculture, which functioned, were necessary and were carried out. However, you forget about such a famous issue as Elewarr. Remember, the property of the company's state, the manpower of agricultural agencies and companies by colleagues... [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] ...walking around the chimney bill, pulling out money, private trips at the taxpayer's expense... [[Voice from the room: How about now?]] ...all these are facts and these facts are on the already famous PSL tapes. Let us also remind you that NIK negatively assessed Elewarr for the financial results achieved in the years 2008 to 2011. In 2013 and 2014, Elewarr had losses of over PLN 13.6 million respectively, and at the moment for the last year we can say that Elewarr's profit of PLN 3.5 million was PLN 3.5 million. So it's possible? Yeah, I can do that. Enough what? Don't steal. [[Applause]] And finally the retirement age, because there was a lot of talk about it here too. The fact is, and it was written in the annals of history, also here in the House of this Parliament, that it was the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL that raised Poles' retirement age to 67 years. Mr President, on behalf of the Platform Government and the PSL, you were the originator, the rapporteur, and he led these laws. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: It is true.]] You were the coalitionist in the Platform and PSL government to raise the age for farmers as well. Because you know perfectly well that these five years have been given to you for peace in the coalition. You agreed to just raise the age for farmers. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal, which was made, was made in order to really create another chaos and discussion, as the opposition does, which has little to do with the substantive discussion about Polish and Polish affairs. I think it's a good thing that from time to time you're making such requests here, because we have at least the opportunity to say what the government of law and justice has done well. [[Applause]] and in what direction are Polish matters going. And Polish cases go in a very good direction: Poland is developing, Poland is safe, Poland has a good government. [[He's not in ruins anymore.]] I We will fulfill all our electoral obligations because, as I said, this is our trademark. [[Game in the O.R.]] We will fulfill all the electoral obligations, everything the Poles expect. [[Applause]] And we're gonna reform the courts, and we're gonna finish the reforms we started... [[Prime Minister, all you have to do is not steal.]] ...against your yelling, against what you're doing. To conclude: Mr Kosiniak-Kamish said that there is no other minister like Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel in my government. Yes, Minister, there is no other minister. This is a very good agricultural minister, one of the best. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u46	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this matter in a moment, i.e. After a short technical break, so the marshal can reach us. I'm declaring a technical recess. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Five minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 36 hours 13 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that, at the beginning of the meeting, the proposals were tabled and that I will now put to the vote only a formal request that the session be interrupted by Mrs Izabela Leszczyna. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, is still present before the formal proposal vote. [[Voice from the room: Modern retreats.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! By virtue of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 please take a break and take a picture on the agenda of print no. 1791, a draft on health finance. Ladies and gentlemen, for their ideological reasons, you want to take something that is the most valuable thing: the right to happiness, the right to motherhood and the right to joy. Many Poles suffer from infertility. The only chance they have is an in vitro procedure. Not only do you not allow them to use the in vitro procedure paid by the State, you also act as a gardener's dog. It's not enough that you don't give money yourself, but you don't let local governments help you. You want - because that's your belief - to prevent people from having children. You talk a lot about demography, you talk a lot about the fact that there should be more children, and at the same time you want to prevent Poles from using the in vitro procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this will make the in vitro procedure available only to the most prosperous. You hit the most Poles who can't afford to pay themselves. If we imagine what our greatest happiness is, it will be our families. Everyone who has children knows how important motherhood is, how important fatherhood is. Taking the opportunity of state aid to finance the in vitro procedure is taking the right to love, taking the right to happiness. I appeal to you to withdraw from this sick bill. Do not behave in such a way as to impose your ideology on all other Poles. Poles have the right to use in vitro, and if local governments want to play the role of state and want to finance it, you should only support it. Therefore, please remove Law 1791 from today's agenda. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u48	The situation is as follows: the committee's report on this project was accepted 2 weeks ago and there was no objection at the time. But in order for me to make the decision of the Supreme Chamber... The proposal is formal, I mean, according to... [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's actually complex. So I'm announcing a three-minute break, and I'm asking the Senior Convention for a dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 45 hours 13 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that after the meeting of the Seniors Convention, I have decided that I will not withdraw the printing report 1844 from the agenda of the current sitting of the Sejm. Let's get back to the votes. As I said, there have been requests. The formal proposal tabled by Mrs Izabela Leszczyna exhausts all other informal proposals, because they were requests for a break. We'll proceed with the vote. We're ready. [[Mr. Marshal, can you give us a closer look at the motion? Because not everyone remembers.]] The request for a break from the proceedings tabled by Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 159 votes against - 251. The Sejm's motion is denied. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Krzysztof Jurgiel. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgiel, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 22 Members abstained from voting 169 against - 231. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] I state that, in the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgiel. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, is making another formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion for an adjournment, a convocation of the Senior Convention and a withdrawal of... [[Voice from the room: Again?]] ... from the vote of the draft law on the financing of educational tasks. First of all, Mr. Marshal, that this project only appeared yesterday, yesterday you came up with the idea that you could talk about a project of more than 140 articles, about a project for which the Committee on Education, Science and Youth requested an opinion from the Office of Sejm Analysis. The Sejm Analysis Office requests that they extend the deadline so that they can deliver this opinion, because the project is complicated and will certainly not be able to deliver this opinion by the end of this week. Since the Sejm Analysis Office is unable to draw up such an opinion, how can we read a hundred and forty articles from day to day, respond to them and talk about it in the late hours of the evening tomorrow? It is not only that you treat education as a really black people, to whom you give time in late evening hours, but you do all this by surprise. [[The school didn't finish.]] It looks like after the first time you saw this project, the Minister promised teachers a raise, but since the 2018 draft budget doesn't increase, you'll probably mix it up so you can take one and add the other. Or it will turn out that what you promised to add will be dropped on the local governments, because it is always the easiest to do, to say to the local governments: the minister gives a raise, and then the local authorities will give this raise if they have anything to give, because for now the local governments have financed the start of your fatal education reform. You promised the local government that you would return the money, but you haven't returned it yet. So I suggest, Mr. Marshal, that we not debate this point at all at this meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u50	Thank you very much. I understand that the Member is speaking under resolution No 4 of the Sejm Bureau of 5 February 1998. In the event of such a request, I quote § 2 - This is decided by the Marshal of the Sejm after consulting the Senior Convention. I am not going to consult the Senior Convention at the moment, because the Member's proposal is the same, at least in substance, with the opposition which the Seniors' Convention has raised at the meeting of the Modern Club representative, and this proposal will be settled. I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law on the financing of educational tasks, i.e. printing no. 1837. At the Convention meeting, as I said, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Then I will put this item to the vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article [[About the formal issue, Mr. Marshal. It's against the rules, it's against the rules. According to the regulations, I have the right to ask...]] Please take your seat. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr President, I warn you that I will have to apply the article. 175. I draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the Sejm's deliberations right now. Please take your seat. Please take your seat. [[What's he interfering with?]] Mr, in a different mode... [[Don't be afraid of the MPs.]] In accordance with other points in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal shall designate the seats of Members in the Seym... [[Which place, Marshal? Then place me, Marshal.]] ...in the sitting room. Then take your place. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the financing of educational tasks, print no. 1837, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 229 against 189. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda... I would like to ask you a second time so that you do not make it difficult for me to hold a sitting. [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] [[But he wants to file a formal motion.]] If you're having second thoughts... [[But there are no formal issues. There's no such thing as formal issues in the regulations.]] ...as far as the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are concerned, please refer to the Rules of Procedure Committee. Because for the second time, I draw your attention, based on Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at the moment, I'm calling you back to order. [[Let him say: a formal proposal, not a formal one.]] Take your seat, sir. [[The formal motion is to file!]] Please take your seat. [[But I'll make a formal request, according to the rules.]] Mr President, when I refer to the article again. 175, that'll be the rule of law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please take your seat. [[I'm just filing a formal motion, and you're scaring me.]] We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Communications on Governmental and Commission drafts of Laws amending the Press Law Act (Prints No. 1604, 1793 and 1812). I ask Mr Krzysztof Czabanski to submit a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, I have the right to make a formal request to you.]] Mr President, once again, I call on you not to obstruct the proceedings. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Members who do not wish to listen to the deliberations at this point, please leave the Chamber and allow Mr Czaban to speak. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on Governmental and Commission proposals for amending the Press Law Act in print 1812. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Marshal of the Sejm sent two draft laws amending the Press Law to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading and consideration. The first draft law, government, print No. 1604, is aimed at, among others. Clarifying the authorisation procedure and repealing criminal liability for publishing statements without permitting authorisation and introducing criminal liability in this respect, which is the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on the Wierkaniuk against Poland. The second draft law, the commission, the Committee on Petitions, print No. 1793, aims at adapting the terminology of the Law Press Law to the terminology used in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by deleting concepts such as the Polish People's Republic, the National Council or the Voivodeship Court, and replacing them with appropriate terms. The first reading and examination of the draft laws took place at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on 12 September this year. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in view of the referral to the committee of drafts connected thematically and discussed in the same proceedings, adopted a resolution on joint examination of the drafts of prints Nos 1604 and 1793. During the work, amendments were tabled clarifying the provisions of the draft law and legislative and editorial amendments. The Commission accepted all the amendments tabled and unanimously adopted the report. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt a draft law from print No 1812. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u52	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Joan Lichocka, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice, of course, is in favour of the proposed changes in the Press Law, that is obvious. It is only regrettable that so many years after 1989 the Communist Press Law passed in 1984, after martial law was introduced in Poland, as all journalists who were not obedient to the Communists were expelled from work. It was then that the Press Law was passed, which allows journalists to be expelled from work if they do not comply with the directives of the political line of the editorial office. In this Press Law there is also a reference to the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic, and there is also the treatment of lack of authorization as crimes for which you can go to prison. This is all in force at the moment in the theoretically free Poland. It is the Press Law that is scandalous - the fact that it has been in force so far, for so many years of the system III of the Republic of Poland. The opposition politicians, the Civic Platforms, have a mouthful of clichés about freedom of speech, independence of the media, freedom of the editorial office. These are clichés. In practice, the state maintained the post-communist system as regards the media. In practice, you didn't do anything to throw those records away. You didn't even mind appealing to the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic. From the Polish People's Republic you grow up, from the Polish People's Republic is also your media experience. That didn't bother you, and this is one big scandal. [[Voice from the room: Where did you study?]] In 2011, the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment against Poland. In 2011, you knew that it was Press Law that did not meet the standards of a democratic state. You didn't do anything. Nothing. You didn't lift a finger. Mr Marek Biernacki, who was now leaving the plenary room, had a good press law project, consulted with journalistic circles. You screwed this project's head off, you didn't do anything, because in the post-communist system, journalists are supposed to have as little rights as possible, they're supposed to be in jail if they don't obey, they're supposed to be on trash deals, they're supposed to be in leases, as you showed when you took public media. Law and Justice change that. Thanks to the changes in the boards of public media companies, they opened up to journalists previously expelled by POs and PSLs who did not meet the requirements of the party line of these two parties. Thanks to this, at least at the moment, we are restoring to a small extent pluralism in electronic media. Today we are strengthening the position of journalists, including those employed in commercial media. Firstly, the authorisation rules are being amended - they are highly liberalised, they limit the time required for it, they exclude blocking publication due to lack of it. Of course, the issue of authorisation is for discussion. I think it can still be maintained, but it needs to be discussed. Perhaps in the future, once such liberalized rules have been introduced, it should be left behind. I think we should get back to this discussion. What's most important is this art. 10. You will remember the scandal a few months ago when you saw the daily instructions for journalists of the head of the German-Swiss publishing company, the instructions of course that Donald Tusk is right that Donald Tusk is the winner. Then I received me, but also many of my colleagues, including many journalists, a signal that if we do not follow these instructions, this programming line, we will lose our jobs, we will lose our jobs. Of course, this is the case in the III RP system. I lost my job because I didn't follow the party guidelines. I know that. I know that from the autopsy. Now we give journalists the right to carry out a journalistic mission according to their conscience. You will not be bound by the programming line appointed by the owner of the publishing house. You'll be able to be more independent. This, of course, is not yet total freedom, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it is a tool that strengthens the position of journalists. You will be able, my colleagues, to write above all the truth, according to your conscience, no one will be able to throw you out of work for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u54	Thank you very much, Member. The voice of Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, at least I have something in common with Mrs Lichocka... [[Well, not too much.]] ...because, like Mrs Lichocka, I was also expelled from journalistic work for not following the line. So we already have something in common, and I think this is a good time to start talking about the substance. This law, which we are looking at today, is the result of the merger of two projects, one was from the Committee on Petitions - in the committee it was indeed noted that there were language raids from the Polish People's Republic, remnants from 1984 - and at the same time the draft was submitted by the government. The government, in turn, relied on what has already been mentioned here, on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which is the European Court of Human Rights, which stated that the authorisation rules contained in our regulations are so vague that they actually allow the person involved by the journalist to stop publishing. Of course, it was an exaggeration, as well as an undeniable exaggeration, it could be that prison was supposed to be for not carrying out authorization at all. It's hard for me to even imagine a situation like this. There can be no objection to this amendment, and notabene is also just another amendment, because I would like to say that during these twenty-something years the press law has been partially cleaned of various nonsenses - it is only for the sake of the news - but as it turns out, not of all, consent. So this amendment proposed by the government is to add nothing, because it doesn't actually do anything wrong, but it doesn't exactly do something good, because - I would like to point out - this is a clarification of the issue of authorisation, that in the case of journals within 6 hours it has to be authorised, and in the case of magazines - within 24 hours, it is as if we were stuck in the era just from 1984, to tell you the truth, in which the printed press was the basis. The issue of the Internet is understated. The Deputy Minister of Culture, present at the committee meeting, said that actually this ministry thinks that the Internet is like journals, but for the Internet 6 hours it's just an eternity, at least I think. But what am I supposed to do, as on this renewed television and free media, someone takes five of my sentences, and then out of these five sentences they take half of the one that suits him, and the meaning of my speech is completely distorted, and no one asks me and authorizes it? The question is, what am I supposed to do, this project doesn't answer. So neither the media, nor the radio, nor the television, nor the Internet are in these regulations. And as long as we decide to authorize it, I would prefer it to be said precisely that a television journalist, before he gives me the microphone and the camera, will say, "You have the right to authorize it, and then I'll send it to me, and I'll either agree or I won't." But maybe I'm asking too much. So much for this project. Of course, we will support this project, but we will not only support it, and I think I will now deserve a round of applause, i.e. My club, the Civic Platform, will deserve a round of applause from Mrs Lichocka, because we have taken a closer look at this article. 10 and we came to the conclusion that a photo of the duty of obedience is not enough, and to the article. 10 in place of the deleted paragraphs. 2 and 3 we propose amendments, which I will allow me to read. Every journalist should be very pleased. So, lips. Article 2 10 shall be replaced by the following: The journalist shall have the right to refuse to carry out the official mandate if it is expected to publish which violates the principles of reliability, objectivity and professional diligence referred to in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Press Law Act. A mouth. 3 is replaced by the following: A reporter may refuse to publish a press release if the changes made to it [[♪ The bell ♪]] They distort the meaning and pronunciation of his version. And this is real journalistic freedom. I recommend to my law and justice colleagues. I hope we can all support this on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Freedom only on TVN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u57	You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u58	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative act under procedure introduces a certain order to the Press Law of 1984. On behalf of the Kukiz 15 Club, I present my attitude to this law. This order applies to the application of the rules on the authorisation of the statements of journalists. The most important change is that the journalist must inform the person giving information about his right to authorize a literally quoted statement. The person wishing to avail himself of this must make such a request without delay. Nor will the journalist be able to refuse authorization, but he will not have to obtain it when it is public. This will certainly make it easier for journalists to work, but it will also provide protection for information providers. The legislative act introduces regulation as to the nature of the substantive and formal authorisation itself. Due to the needs of modern interpersonal communication, quite strict terms of authorisation are introduced. This obviously makes sense - to get the information to the public as soon as possible. It is also beneficial to add that the lack of authorisation will not be a crime and will be treated as a misdemeanor. The Act is also introducing cosmetic changes due to the situation that takes place after 1989 in Poland. These are e.g.: removal from the Act of naming directly related to the Polish People's Republic, repeal of the provisions concerning the obligation of the journalist to carry out the programming line of the letter in which he is employed, an indication - quite obvious - that the editor-in-chief of the letter cannot be the person convicted of the heaviest crimes against the interests of Poland, the elimination of an unnecessary body such as the Press Council. The revision despite such changes is superficial. The removal of terminology from the communist state does not change in any way the oppressive nature of the Press Law Act. After all, it was adopted to ensure that the totalitarian state was supervised by insubordinate journalists and a certain formatting of the public's awareness of the press content. And it is known to be used as such. Moreover, in more than 30 years of its operation, there have been new developments concerning the press market. These circumstances include, for example, technological developments related to the acquisition of information by journalists, changes in the awareness of journalists and audiences as regards the functional nature of the press information. Unfortunately, in the Press Law amended by the current legislative act, nothing has changed in this respect. The obligations of public information providers have not been defined. This is a serious pathology that is being used. For example, in Krakow, the entity carrying out a public research project made it impossible to obtain information so-called. a social journalist, considering that his intellectual product, I remind, financed by public funds, is private property. In democratic countries with a greater understanding of civil institutions' involvement, e.g. in the United States, no one would think of such an attitude, because there is a legal culture and a service role of bodies using public funds and providing information to a journalist asking about it is a culture of a free state. And in Poland it is the culture of a country enslaved, also by press law reaching the roots of communist totalitarianism. There is such a psychic situation that an expert in a public seminar, referring to his personal interests, does not allow a journalist to publicize his image or voice, because he feels bad when someone hears that voice. The existing Press Law in Poland serves to kill, or at least hinder the functioning of Internet journalism. This violates civil rights, but also public and public interests. Changes related to this Press Law Act should also be included in other legislation, e.g. Criminal code. The existing Press Law provides very limited protection for the journalist. I believe that, in the end, the scope of the Article should be clearly defined. 212 Penal Code. I mean, he's the one that makes you race journalists. We have an example of punishing journalists for a word, which is to describe the real events that in the local notepad's sense are in his honor. That's the way it is. in Wadowice, where a local blogger is being prosecuted by the mayor. This undermines the freedom of the media and leads to the intimidation of insubordinate journalists. To sum up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Kukiz'15 club is in favour of the bill, but points to the need to completely remodel it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on government and commission draft laws amending the Press Law Act after the presentation of the committee report, the number of the last printing is 1812. High Izbo! The revision of the Press Law is a great opportunity to recall the first article of this act. It reads: "Press, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, enjoys freedom of expression and realizes the right of citizens to inform them honestly, public life and social control and criticism. Since the current power took control of public broadcasters, on Polish Television and Polish Radio we have observed a notorious break Not only Press Law, but all standards and crossing the boundaries of ordinary human decency. National media publishing and information programs are a festival of awkward propaganda and pushy promotion of the vision of the ruling party only. The media, whose task is reliable information, but also education and shaping of social tastes, broadcasts soaked in xenophobia, sexism, devoid of good taste, which is the best and brightest example of which is the last recital by Jan Pietrzak at the festival of the Polish song in Opole. The proposed amendment to the Press Law, although necessary, unfortunately does not respond in any way to the need to improve this dramatic situation. The changes to authorisation are the implementation of the 2011 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which concluded that the existing rules are incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights and infringe the principles of the functioning of a democratic society in which freedom of expression is an overriding value. The changes concern, among others: determine the time during which the interviewer is to be authorised, identify activities that cannot be considered authorisation and change to criminal qualifications for a journalist who has published an unauthorized statement. In addition, applicants proposed to harmonise the nomenclature and delete non-functional paragraphs and to adjust the conditions preventing the appointment of editor-in-chief by indicating that the editor-in-chief cannot be the person who committed the crime against the Republic of Poland. The draft also provides for an amendment to the Article. 10 Press rights by deleting the record that the journalist in the context of the employment relationship is obliged to carry out the general programme line of the editorial office as laid down in the statute or regulations of the editorial office in which he is employed. As presented by the social side, this provision allowed the editor to release the journalist, even though he presented reliable material, but this material was incompatible with the editorial line. Concerning the changes proposed in the project, which include: I just said, directionally at this stage as a parliamentary club, of course, we give the green light. Unfortunately, as I mentioned at the outset, this project does not solve the problems that arose when the current authority took control of public broadcasters. It does not solve the problem present in the Polish Television and Polish Radio of the arbitrage of propaganda and languish only the right governing party. It does not solve problems with the notorious violation of Press Law and basic journalistic standards. It does not encourage reliable information or positive, open education. Therefore, although we give the green light to the proposed regulations at this stage, given these scandalous facts concerning the Polish Television and the public radio, we believe that this amendment is highly insufficient because it does not solve the fundamental key problems that concern public broadcasters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u62	Thank you very much. I would like to warmly welcome the students and carers present at the gallery from their primary school. Orląt Lwowskich in Przemyśl. Welcome. [[Applause]] We also welcome everyone else listening to our debate. Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the amendment of the Press Law and I will immediately say that this is a positive position. It cannot be otherwise, because in some sense the project consumes the provisions of the Act submitted by the Polish People's Party exactly 5 years ago, 23 May 2012. Both these projects or regulations are very similar, and on many issues they coincide. They shall liberalize the Press Law to a similar extent in the case of an authorisation procedure. In the same way they take away from journalists the criminal responsibility for publishing a literally quoted statement in violation of the right of authorisation. The differences between 2012 projects and the current regulations are really cosmetic. That's why we won't argue about plagiarism, ladies and gentlemen. We are very pleased that the only legal relic will be revised. Five years ago, we could have had a good amendment, a good amendment to the Press Law, but it was not possible to do so. But I would also like to remind you how enthusiastic our proposal has been accepted by journalists and by the editors. Maciej Hoffman, then president of the House of Press Publishers, called it the expected decommunization of the media. The law reached the first reading, then was pushed to the so-called. freezers. In this way, today we are again, in a slightly modified way, a law, but this time we hear in justifications how much Law and Justice cares about the media and journalists. The best example of objectivity and integrity of journalists under your rule is the Polish Television, which by many is called TV PiS. The best example of professionalism and transparency is the National Media Council, which, Minister, does not seem to have a website so far, because I just checked and there was no website, there was no contact data. If it is, it should be better evicted, because it is impossible for an ordinary citizen to find. I would also like, on behalf of the photographers, to call for the principles of the functioning of the photographers in the Seym to change. The restrictions that were introduced last year actually make these photojournalists have nothing to come here for. I don't know if you know this, but photographers, for example. they can't take photos from the entire gallery, they can only take pictures in one place, so that the viewfinders are directed at your formation, but they have no chance of taking photos of the opposition. Really, think about it. I don't think you have anything to be afraid of. and you can go back to previous regulations. I think that press law requires a lot of changes and profound changes so as to protect public media and journalists from the situations that we have already heard about here in this Chamber in the future. I know that this is probably not possible in this term of office, but it is worth working to protect journalists and the media from this political flaw in future laws. Thank you very much. [[Well, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u64	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on government and commission drafts of laws amending the Press Law Act. The project removes outdated concepts such as: Polish People's Republic, and non-existent government administrations, i.e. National councils and press councils. The last Press Council was established in 1985 and operated until 1988 and was never established again. It is not justified that, after so many years since the change in the political system, we should continue to refer to the rules of the Polish People's Republic. The present law is a fundamental legal act governing the activity of the press, which refers to provisions guaranteeing freedom of expression. There cannot be such a situation that the provisions of the Act refer to non-existent institutions in today's reality. According to the Court, the provisions of the present law give unlimited right to interviewers to prevent journalists from publishing the information they have heard. This may have a major impact on the failure of journalists to raise more in-depth questions for fear of refusal of authorisation. In addition, the disadvantage of the current law is the lack of time limits in which the right to authorisation can be exercised. The proposed bill introduces detailed authorisation regulations, among others. a journalist will not have to obtain authorization in the event of a public statement. The person giving the statement who wishes to exercise his right will be obliged to report this fact to the journalist, the journalist being obliged to inform the person giving the information about his right. The new provisions of the Act will introduce a time limit for authorisation. If the person giving the interview does not carry out an authorisation within the statutory deadline, it will mean consent to the publication of a literally quoted statement. The new rules repeal the existing criminal sanctions and introduce criminal liability in place. The penalties were disproportionate in relation to the goods which were protected by the authorisation law. During the committee's work, two convergent draft laws were discussed from print No. 1604 - government project and No. 1793 - draft petition committee. The Commission decided to make use of the law and convergence as regards regulations, to consider the projects together and to include them in print No 1604, taking into account the amendment of the Commission's draft, which concerns the replacement of national councils with the identification of the relevant local government units. The rules introduced will facilitate the work of journalists, reduce responsibility and prevent the use of the right of authorisation to block the press. The earlier provisions of the Act could have had a fundamental impact on the delay in the flow of relevant information from a social point of view. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u66	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 of this law as a negative condition for the appointment of editor-in-chief, you indicate that a person cannot be convicted of a crime, a crime. You're pointing to a ten-year period here. Is it not enough simply to refer to the period of failure of the conviction that arises from the Penal Code? Now we're introducing some separate rules, some new rules on the failure of a conviction. And here, please pay attention, just enough: convicted. That would be the one thing. The second case concerns a person convicted of a crime committed as a result of a motivation worthy of special condemnation. For all the crimes, or just for the crimes referred to in Chapter VII of the Criminal Code? You refer to Chapter VI above, and here you refer to the crime. In one recipe we have: crime, crime, crime. Mishmash. And the end, the last sentence. The registration authority, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, may exempt the editor-in-chief from the requirement to have Polish citizenship. Of course, but why in this recipe? What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? It's a legislative remark. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u68	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! With regard to questions, first of all, I am very pleased that, in principle, all clubs support the amendment of the Press Law Act. It was necessary. Indeed, I very much regret that this change has not been made in so many years. I remember that in college, when I started my studies and I met with this bill, my lecturer showed the Polish People's Republic that is performing there. And all of them as students. We were wondering how that was possible. I didn't expect a law from the Ministry of Culture that changes that will only come out when I'm responsible for this part. Indeed, Mrs PSL recalled that in 2011 such a change was to be made, I am referring to the removal of the Polish People's Republic from the Press Law Act, but for some reason it was stuck in the Parliamentary Committee, which I also regretted at the time. Today it is the Law and Justice that makes this change, which should be made, as I have repeatedly stressed, a long time ago. We are introducing this amendment in the context of an amendment to the authorisation provision which civilises this authorisation and, above all, causes that the journalist will not be punished on the one hand on the basis of criminal regulations for publishing the text without authorization, and on the other hand, it will not be possible to block an interview that was unflattering or somehow failed by the person who gave the interview. Several doubts arose, among others. in Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska's speech. This is about the situation when a journalist publishes words that we disagree with, we think they are against our intention. Here I would just like to say that, of course, you can apply for the defence of personal goods under the Civil Code. On the other hand, I will refer to the questions of the Member. We have tried above all to adapt the existing law to the realities that are currently in place. Of course, in the future, we would like to create a modern press law that would give as much freedom as possible on the one hand, and on the other hand, it would sort out a lot of things that are so far out of order. Therefore, among others. The recipe you asked for is written 10 years from the crime, not until the conviction failed. We've only modified this recipe, left it as much as possible in the way it was in the beginning. As far as crimes that deserve special condemnation are concerned, these are crimes listed in the Penal Code. That's a specific category of crime, which is why it's listed in the law. There are three different types: crime, crime, and crimes that deserve special condemnation. They're different. [[Voice from the hall: There is the word "crime" used.]] No, we already did an amendment at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u70	Gentlemen, is there a discussion at this point, or are we following some rules? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I'm sorry, but apparently you haven't noticed that... Besides, when I heard the speeches, I noticed that you were referring to a project that was submitted at a committee meeting. He did not take into account the amendments that had already been adopted at the committee meeting. The word "crime" was changed at the committee meeting to the words "crime" and "crime." There's no more inaccuracies here. The concept of crime was used in the original version, which was still passed for communes. This case has already been straightened out at the committee meeting. I think this case is solved, so I don't think there's any need to add to it. I don't think there were any more questions, at least I didn't hear there was any doubt. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases (Prints No. 1799 and 1818). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Government bill amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, print no. 1799, entered the Sejm on 9 August 2017. 1 September 2017. Marshal of the Sejm directed him to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The aim of the project is primarily to improve the effectiveness of preventive measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. It is mainly of an ordering nature, improving and detailing the performance of the task: accident prevention. In addition, it increases the amount of expenditure - a percentage - from 0.50% in 2013 to an amount of between 1% contributions due for accident insurance provided for in the financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the financial year in question. This draft law also sets out the manner and manner in which the financial resources allocated to preventive measures are to be spent. The solutions proposed in the amendment meet the proposals of the Labour Protection Council at the Sejm. Following the first reading and adoption of one amendment, the Committee on Social Policy adopted a draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases with one abstention on 13 September 2017 and asks the High Sejm to adopt it in accordance with print No 1818. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u72	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my parliamentary club, the Law and Justice Club, in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, contained in print No. 1818. The amendment to the Act aims to codify the modalities and rules for the co-financing from the accident fund of activities related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Such activities shall be carried out under Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 1 of the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases The Social Insurance Institution has been operating for several years, developing the form and scope of its activities, especially during the period of our governments, our government - in terms of financing. For illustration of the scale of the phenomenon it is worth mentioning comparative data. Thus, while in 2013 the funds allocated to accident prevention support were at the level of 300 000. zł, in 2016, the size of the measures taken by employers to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases reached the level of PLN 55 million. Accordingly, the number of projects carried out increased from seven to 700, i.e. 100 times. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has shown itself to be a statutory initiative to go against the need to clarify rules that would lay down rules for financing accident prevention. The project presents a number of essential elements that will indeed stabilise and organise the process of spending measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. This is also important due to the transparency of the activities carried out. The Act stabilizes the amount of expenditure provided for in the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for accident prevention by setting it at 1% due accident insurance contributions. In addition, the Act sets out the procedure, rules and procedure for the cancellation of competitions for contributors who apply for funding for actions aimed at maintaining their working capacity throughout their working life. Another element is the conditions that the payer must fulfil in order to apply for funding under the competition. The Act also regulates the process of identifying an entity assisting the Social Insurance Institution in the implementation of accident prevention and lays down rules for its cooperation with the Social Insurance Institution. It is worth noting that the solutions put in place do not have any additional financial implications. All expenditure shall be included in the funding of actions aimed at maintaining the capacity to work throughout the working life. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems necessary to increase prevention activities to prevent not only accidents at work but also occupational diseases occurring in the workplace. My club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, fully supports the provisions of the draft law adopted in the committee's report on amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u74	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases. The project was included in print No 1799 and the report was published in print No 1818. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the amendment aims at standardising the rules of the universally applicable rules and methods of financing the so-called. public accident prevention. The new rules also confer tasks on the Central Institute for Labour Protection concerning the substantive assessment of projects in this area. It should be noted that through Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 1 of the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases ZUS is obliged to perform tasks in the field of accident prevention. For several years we have seen great progress in the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. The Labour Protection Council has clearly made a significant contribution to these positive changes, which has requested and supported new solutions to the rules on the implementation of accident prevention tasks for many years. I have often stressed at the meetings of the Labour Protection Council, which I chaired in the years 2008 and 2015 that we need not only to supervise and control, but also to place a great deal of emphasis on preventive action. It turned out that the efforts of the Council gave visible results in the form of projects and programmes being carried out. I would like to remind you that in 2013 The US launched a pilot programme, seven proposals received, and already in 2014 - 525 proposals. Unfortunately, most of them included formal or substantive errors that required correction. Finally, 57 entrepreneurs were supported in 2014, but 2015 had even better results on accident prevention. The interest in this programme was very high, and this was the result of an increased information campaign on the possibility of obtaining assistance from the accident fund. By the end of 2015, 4300 applications were received, 438 of which received a positive assessment. However, the effectiveness of the projects carried out is conditional on maintaining sufficiently high funding for preventive measures at least at the level provided for in the Act. This proposal introduces a number of changes. The first is to determine the amount of expenditure on accident prevention at 1% contributions due for accident insurance provided for in the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan. The amendment also lays down the rules of the grant contest for the payer of contributions to the activities aimed at maintaining the working capacity throughout the working life. An important change is the clarification of the rules for the formal assessment of applications by the Social Security Office and the substantive evaluation by the Central Institute for Labour Protection. High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the direction of the amendment of the proposed law, especially since it is a continuation of the actions initiated by the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u76	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u77	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, prints no. 1799 and 1818. According to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 1 of the Act of 30 October 2002 on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, hereinafter referred to as the Accident Act, it is the task of the Social Security Office to finance activities related to the prevention of accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, taking into account the ability to work throughout the working life in terms of its impact on the formation of these events, in particular the financing of actions aimed at maintaining the capacity to work throughout the working life of the payers. Currently, the method and way in which financial resources are spent for this purpose are not defined. The main objective of the amendments to this Act is to standardise the rules and procedures for granting subsidies at the statutory level. accident prevention, including the selection of the best projects in the competition announced by the President of the ZUS, as well as an indication of the entity cooperating with the ZUS in carrying out this task. This change is justified by the increasing interest of payers in submitting projects, the number of which is growing from year to year. The amount allocated to the financing of activities related to prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases is also increasing, with around 300 000. In 2013 to more than 55 million in 2016 The solution seems to be a good one, among others. preferential treatment of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and a number of other proposals of a sequencing nature. Therefore, the clear and law-defined rules for granting co-financing aimed at improving safety at work will certainly benefit potential applicants. It should also be hoped that the proposed changes will have a direct impact on the reduction of accidents at work, as this is the substance of the whole issue. In conclusion, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u79	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a modern position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill on social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, prints 1799 and 1818. The draft law deals with the regulation at the level of the generally applicable rules and procedures for granting public funding by the Social Insurance Institution to the so-called. prevention of accidents and entrusting the Central Institute of Labour Protection with tasks relating to the substantive assessment of projects in this area. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has not made any amendments to the original text of the draft law. The draft law allows for full legal regulation of the generally applicable rules and procedures for granting public benefits. The planned changes in the law aim to improve safety in the working environment. This is extremely important because any action that can reduce the risk of a workplace or work will be supported by a modern one. However, there is no way to overlook the negative aspects of the project, which also appear, Minister. Firstly, as the Polish Employers reported during the public consultation, the draft law provides for considerable disparities vis-à-vis large entities in terms of financing actions aimed at maintaining the working capacity throughout the working life. However, in order to support the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, we must not forget that there are also risks in larger companies, often even more dangerous than in smaller companies. Secondly, the bill provides that only employees of the Central Institute for Labour Protection - the State Research Institute will be the reviewers of applications for funding. However, the participation of other people, including industry or professionals, could only have a positive impact on the meaningful assessment of applications for funding. In view of the above considerations and reservations, but also the importance of the project in question, the Posel Club Modern supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u80	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor. Excuse me, Mrs Zwierzan, you will be speaking with Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u81	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, prints no. 1799 and 1818. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of a programme to finance activities aimed at maintaining employability throughout the working life of contributors is part of a European Union policy supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. According to statistics in Poland, more than 87 thousand people are injured in accidents at work. persons. Despite the fact that this figure has remained similar in recent years, there is a significant decrease in the overall number of serious and fatal accidents. The project under investigation is preventive in nature and is part of activities aimed at maintaining the capacity to work throughout the working life of the payers. It is worth noting here that the amount allocated by the Social Security Office since 2013 to the company's co-financing programme for the financing of activities related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases is steadily increasing. This direction has been declared by the Labour Protection Council on purpose. It is not possible to disagree with the fact that it is advisable to maintain the upward direction in relation to measures related to accident prevention. There is still a question of an amendment to the level of funding, as pointed out by representatives of entrepreneurs during the consultation. In line with the proposed wording of the Article. 37b. In the opinion of employers, the percentage of funding in the case of social security contributions is burdened with a large gap between large operators and support for micro and small businesses. This issue is worthwhile to work on. In particular, statistics show that accidents occur during the first days of work - up to the seventh day of work - and this is not related to the size of the employer. It is therefore worth considering the request to revise the amount of funding in order to bridge the far-reaching inequalities between different groups of employers. Due to the very high interest of employers in the programme and the increasing number of aid applications which, due to the limited financial envelope each year, cannot be implemented in a given year, the applicant proposes the introduction of a competition announced annually by the president of the plant. However, there is a question of the terms of the competition, which must be clarified and revised if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party Club supports the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u82	Thank you, sir. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The main objective of the bill is to organise the applicable rules and procedures for the financing of accident prevention activities from the accident fund. The need for regulation is due to an increasing number of requests for funding for measures aimed at preventing accidents at work and occupational diseases at work and increasing the amount of funding for these projects. The task of the Social Security Office is to finance activities related to prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases throughout the working life of the payers. The draft law provides for the determination of the amount of expenditure on accident prevention at 1% , fixing the maximum amount of funding and determining the conditions to be met by the payer in order to be able to apply for funding. The proposed bill contains regulations such as the right to refinance the next project after 3 years when the full funding from the Social Security Office is paid, and a three-year withdrawal period for the payer of the contributions, which is obliged to repay the contribution due to the non-use of the funds allocated in accordance with the approved project. The Act indicates the entities that will cooperate with the Social Insurance Institution when selecting the best projects in the competition. I consider it appropriate that the substantive evaluation of the projects and the evaluation of the implementation of the projects be carried out by the Central Institute for Labour Protection - the State Research Institute. Looking at his many years of experience and scientific background, it can be assumed that this will guarantee the quality of the assessments of the content of the proposals and the reports on the implementation of the projects. The Labour Protection Council has positively assessed the programme implemented by the Social Security Office (ZUS) to support improvements in working conditions. It considered it appropriate to continue the measures related to accident prevention and to finance them in accordance with the accident law. Entities applying for funding increase the safety of their employees in specific jobs. I hope that the changes made will broaden the knowledge of entrepreneurs about the opportunities to improve working conditions, which in the longer term will translate into an increase in the company's competitiveness and, most importantly, will extend the period of employment. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u84	Thank you, Member. Two Members joined the questions. Is there anyone else willing to ask the question? If not, please ask Mr Jarosław Porwich as the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We have increased expenditure on prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases on several occasions. I will remind you: in 2013 - 300,000, in 2016. - over PLN 55 million. Good, you have to spend your money on preventive measures. My question to the Minister: Why does such a large increase in expenditure have such a small contribution to reducing accidents at work? Aren't we dealing with too little efficiency here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u86	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Reducing occupational risks, the active participation of workers in ensuring safety at work is an essential prerequisite for effective health and safety management at work. It is good that there are such projects to finance improving working conditions and increasing safety, with over 1 000 benefits in 2013 and 2016. enterprises. But in my opinion, it's not enough. There is a great interest in the programme with employers and it would be good to increase the funding. I would like to ask: What must be the company's own contribution? What are the criteria for the contest? Has there been any further changes? Between 2015 and 2016, the Institute evaluated 1526 projects. Please tell me how many people are employed at the Institute and what is the annual cost of this unit's operation. If the Minister is not prepared for this at this moment, I ask for a written reply, because we know that the programme exists and is very much needed. Who initiated preventive programmes and how does the Minister assess all these programmes so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u88	Thank you, Member. The list of Members of the Committee of the Regions has been exhausted, so I ask that the Undersecretary of State speak at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their unanimity, for their clear support for the government's draft law on amending the Law on benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases. During the discussions actually in the speeches of representatives of all parliamentary clubs, there were elements related to a very significant increase in the so-called expenditures. accident prevention. Indeed, in 2013, this level of expenditure on accident prevention was still relatively low, freshly after the amendment of the so-called law. An accident at the level of 300,000. zł. 2016 is expenditure of PLN 55 million. I think it is also worth mentioning how the situation is shaping in 2017 and what plans the government has in terms of the level of expenditure on accident prevention in 2018. Thus, in the financial plan of the Social Insurance Institution for 2017 the amount of PLN 65 million was allocated for accident prevention, i.e. an increase of 10 million compared to 2016. On the other hand, in the budget plan for next year in the financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund in the section on accident insurance we plan, that is, of course, the draft budget, a significant increase in the amount of expenditure on so-called. accident prevention - up to PLN 225 million. I think that these amounts, these figures, first of all, clearly and clearly indicate that there is a strong interest in contributors, employers employing workers under conditions of occupational hazard to benefit from such programmes supporting various types of initiatives to improve working conditions. But, secondly, these amounts also illustrate the need for detailed rules for public funding for accident prevention expenditure. There have been no such detailed rules so far. The Social Insurance Institution followed its internal procedures. It was considered that such a significant increase in expenditure on accident prevention requires regulation of the statutory rank to clarify these very procedures for spending funds. With regard to the comments submitted and the questions raised during the discussion on the draft law discussed today, the first of the comments concerned the imbalance in the scope of financial support for projects submitted by smaller employers, with the scope of support for projects submitted by smaller employers, contributors. During the discussion, also in the Social Policy Committee, I made an argument on this issue, so I will repeat that it can be said that the current practice of providing financial assistance to support the project on prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases shows that employers who employ more workers aspire, seek support for greater value. On the other hand, the size of the employer, one can say, is also associated with his ability to cover part of the costs associated with the implementation of such a project, so-called. I'm in my own way, aren't I? The greater the employer's ability to cover more of the costs associated with such a project is simply greater, the smaller the number of employees employed, the less the value of the project and at the same time the ability to cover the costs associated with the so-called costs on its own. I'm making my own contribution. But I also referred in the course of the discussion to other arguments related to the fact that we have other instruments in the accident insurance system, of course, which encourage the improvement of working conditions for those payers with occupational risks. This element is the possibility whether the obligation of the Social Insurance Institution to differentiate the amount of the accident insurance contribution according to the degree of risk of accidents at work or occupational disease. I will also remind you that mechanisms to improve working conditions are slightly weaker for smaller employers with nine and fewer employees, because there, you can say, we are dealing with such a simplified mechanism for setting the rate of the contribution, in a way we average this interest rate for smaller payers. As regards the second question, concerning an entity which will be a kind of reviewer of proposals, will issue opinions on the substance of individual applications, I would like to say that the Central Institute for Labour Protection is a state research institute which, you can say, plays a specific role in our social security system, but also in the labour law system. It enjoys an undisputed authority, which is expressed above all by the level or dimension of the qualifications of the staff of this institute. Moreover, the Central Institute for Labour Protection has also been involved in the opinion of such proposals so far. It can be said that the assessment of existing cooperation with the Central Institute for Labour Protection is simply exemplary. That's all I can say about it. As regards the next question, it concerned why it is so unsatisfactory to improve statistics on the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases in Poland. We can say that in the justification of the project we refer to this issue. Maybe I'll quote a section of the justification: Analyzing the number of projects completed, the amount of funding allocated and, above all, the number of employees covered - about 15 thousand. people - it is difficult to talk about the significant contribution of the project to reducing accidents. This objective is undoubtedly pursued not only by public institutions dealing with conditions and protection of work, but also by employers seeking to improve working conditions and their safety. The primary objective of the programme is to finance activities related to the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases, taking into account the ability to work throughout the working life in terms of its impact on the emergence of these events, in particular the financing of activities aimed at maintaining the working capacity throughout the working life of the payers. As I said earlier, there is much more to these instruments which are intended to encourage initiatives to improve working conditions and reduce accidents at work and occupational diseases. It is to be hoped that this significant increase in spending on the programme that we are discussing today will contribute to improving these statistics. As regards the question of Małgorzata Płępek, I would like to give you a written reply, as you suggested. [[The Member has left.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Thank you, no questions asked.]] Thank you. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases (prints No 1788 and 1817). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, contained in print No. 1817. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several years ago, i.e. in July 2005, the Sejm adopted an amendment to the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. By virtue of its provisions from January 2006, persons who have been in an incapacity for work pension and have reached retirement age during that period have become eligible for retirement without the need to submit any additional, appropriate application. In the case of these ex officio pensions, where there was no required traineeship, only the amount of the old-age pension was guaranteed. This means that this pension may not be lower than the old-age pension for incapacity for work, but that pension has not been covered by the guarantee of the amount of the lowest benefits. It's been like this for years. Annual values weren't very high, so maybe that's why this situation hasn't been taken into account. From 1 March 2017, the lowest pension, provided that you have the required internship, i.e. for women 20 years or 22 years - the difference is that in 2012 the previous coalition adopted a law which entered into force since January 2013 and this law not only extended the retirement age but also extended the required traineeship for women and so systematically we have now reached 22 years of the required internship... I am happy to say that from 1 October we are back to our internship, as we are to the lower retirement age for women, and also to the 20-year internship and - on the subject - 25 years for men. The total incapacity and survivor's pensions were raised from PLN 882,56 to PLN 1000, while the partial incapacity pensions were raised from PLN 676,75 to PLN 750. The government draft law, which entered the Sejm on 9 August this year, proposes that ex officio pensions also be covered by the guarantee of the amount of the lowest benefit, regardless of whether the pensioner has the required internship, had, at the time of retirement from office, or did not have, respectively equal to PLN 1000 - this corresponds to the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work, or PLN 750 - this corresponds to the lowest pension for partial incapacity for work, depending on whether the pension is converted for total or partial incapacity for work, i.e. Article 2 Point 1 (3) of the proposed law. Personally, I'm very happy with this project, and I think it's not just me, because in March this year. Many pensioners began to claim that, despite the government's announcement, they did not get a raise in this pension to PLN 1000. Several people came to my office whose pensions did not reach the amount declared by the government. There was even a person - I couldn't believe it, but I saw a pension receipt - whose pension is less than PLN 600. That's why it's a joy that this project changes that. This project contains one more point. Another solution proposed in the project is to organise the rules for the granting of pensions for incapacity for work. A provision shall be made to prevent the right to an invalidity pension from being obtained by a person who has previously been entitled to a pension or by a person who has reached his retirement age. The bill assumes a 14-day vacathio legis, but the valorization will be paid next year, together with next year's valorization, however, I would like to stress, with an equalization from March this year. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and discussed this proposal at its meeting on 13 September. And she accepted it unanimously. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy recommends the adoption of a draft law without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u92	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, print No 1788. This draft law aims primarily at extending the scope of the entity's right to collect the lowest pension benefit. The guarantee of receiving this benefit has not so far covered persons who have retired from their pensions and have not reached a minimum insurance period of 22 years for women and 25 years for men. From 1 October this internship will be reduced to 20 years for women. The amended act concerns the so-called "law'. retirement from office by a person who was entitled before the retirement age to a pension for incapacity for work. On 1 March 2017, there was a significant increase in the amounts of the lowest benefits, greater than was apparent from the valorisation rates. However, it did not include pensioners who did not achieve the above-mentioned minimum insurance internship. The project aims to compensate for the immediate valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March 2018 with compensation from 1 March 2018. In addition, the proposed amendment aims to eliminate the legal gap in the pension insurance scheme and the absence of a provision enabling the pensioner to apply for an invalidity pension after reaching retirement age. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice considers it necessary and socially expected changes made by the bill submitted and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u94	Thank you. Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform club the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, print No. 1788. At first I will say that this is a good project, expected by many pensioners, many people who use the so-called. public pensions and, on the other hand, they also want to exercise the right to guarantee the lowest wage. The draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 31 July 2017. The objectives of the project are linked to an institution for retirement from office by a person who was entitled before the retirement age to a pension for incapacity for work. This institution was introduced into Polish law under the 2005 amendment law, entered into force on 1 January 2006. It assumes that the entitled person who collects the pension for incapacity for work and has reached the retirement age during that period shall be entitled of his/her office to collect the pension without the need to submit an appropriate application. In short, it changes its status from a pensioner to a pensioner. In the context of this year's valorization of pension benefits, which was carried out on 1 March 2017 - this valorization assumed that the lowest pension and pension benefits would be raised to the amount of PLN 1000 for pensioners with total incapacity for work and to PLN 750 in the case of a partial incapacity pension - there was a problem which found regulation in the project. The minimum pension is guaranteed by persons who have received an insurance internship, i.e. the total number of premium and non-contributory years at present. 22 years for women and 25 years for men. From 1 October, a minimum traineeship for women of up to 20 years will be reduced, and therefore the problem is that some persons entitled to a pension for incapacity to work who retire from office are not entitled to the lowest pension. And that's how the processed project meets the expectations of these people. The case could be about 105,000. persons. In short, the bill covers pensioners who have previously received a pension for incapacity for work by guaranteeing the lowest salary regardless of the duration of the contribution or non-contributory period that they have achieved before the acquisition of the right to an incapacity pension. The second issue, which has been regulated in this project, concerns a pragmatic approach to beneficiaries of the insurance scheme, namely the assumption that, after reaching the retirement age, there is no possibility of taking a pension for incapacity to work or applying for it. The government's proposal is that the law should enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Of course, my club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u96	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Porwich, Club Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, prints No 1788 and 1817. The proposed amendment concerns the Pension Act, specifically the determination of the amount of the lowest benefits, pensions and pensions. The project shall include appropriate arrangements for the adjustment of the pension and pension system. In the assessment of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, it complements the space created in the pension system after raising the lowest benefits in terms of people with the lowest incomes. In conclusion, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u98	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u99	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases, prints No 1788 and 1817. The draft law concerns the coverage of the lowest pensions granted with an ex officio guarantee of the amount of the lowest benefit equal to PLN 1000, with compensation from 1 March 2017 and the introduction of a regulation preventing the person who has reached the age of retirement from obtaining the right to an invalidity pension, with the exception of a pension for incapacity to work from accident insurance. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has not made any amendments to the original draft law. The bill provides for an important restriction in the social security system, which should lead to its sealing. In addition, pensions are calculated as old, i.e. in a manner considered generous at the time of the pension reform carried out in 1999. The method of calculating pensions was then changed and the calculation of invalidity pensions did not change. The bill is therefore an attempt to prevent those who have the right to a pension and who do not benefit from it and those who have reached their retirement age and who are still working. However, this does not apply to persons entitled to a pension in the event of accidents at work and occupational diseases, where the choice of benefit is still left to them. In view of the above, the Modern Club supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There has been a change in the proceedings. I therefore invite you to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party by Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u101	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, prints No. 1788 and 1817. Ladies and gentlemen! The object of our work is a project which allows the lowest pension and pension benefits to be guaranteed in the amount of PLN 1000 and PLN 750 per month respectively, and introduces a regulation preventing the pension from being obtained by a person of retirement age or receiving a pension. This long-awaited change is intended to improve the situation of the worst-cased pensioners and pensioners. As a club of the Polish People's Party, the party which created the foundations of senior politics in Poland, we will look favorably at this direction, but this does not mean that we will leave the matter without some reflection. Because there are doubts about the number of people who will benefit from the proposed change. For example, mothers who have spent their lives raising their children or working under contract for a work. Everything points to the fact that they won't be able to catch the pension offered by the government. In order to get 1000 zł minimum pension, you need to prove the right internship: a woman must be 22 years old, a man - 25 years old. So that's why whoever gets a smaller internship and raises few contributions gets a pension lower than the minimum. And that's for the amendment, the expensive good change, which is also about your other actions, or actually lack of them. Since we are already beginning to work on improving the quality of life of pensioners and pensioners, I ask why we are not returning to working on our project of introducing a contribution criterion. [[You had time.]] Retirement after 40 years of work. This proposal gives a choice and at the same time responds to the demands of the unionists and to President Duda's campaign promise. The project is frozen, maybe it's worth getting back to. [[Eight years.]] Once again, we will also submit a project with additions for pensioners of 500 PLN. Let me remind you that before the vacation, the PiS rejected this project, so that pensioners will not have a chance to receive money this year. It is a pity, because with such a low valorization the supplement, which was proposed by the Polish People's Party, would be a good compensation. I hope that when we put this project back together, the parliamentary clubs will support it. The last thing we want to bring up is another proposal of the Polish People's Party: pension without tax. Thanks to our proposal, seniors would not pay contributions and taxes on their benefits, which they paid for 40 and 50 years of their professional activity. This is a real help for almost 9 million pensioners, it would be a really good change. On average, every month retired people would get 20% more than today or otherwise: they would not give up these 20% his pension to the Treasury. The Polish People's Party will not block the solutions proposed by the PiS regarding pensioners, but we tell you: I check. If you really want to improve their living conditions, you will support our projects, which are in the freezer and which will soon come in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u102	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I must refer to Mr PSL's statement because he complains so much and claims that they were laying the foundation for the seniors. But why didn't you, along with this foundation, provide these seniors with basically neither an increase in pensions nor any other benefits? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, you didn't. You're only doing projects now. [[Applause]] On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. In March this year. the lowest pension is increased for persons who have adequate premium and non-contributory periods: for women, 20 and 22 years, for men, 25 years. Invalidity and survivor's pensions have also been increased to PLN 1000. The amount of the partial incapacity pension was set at PLN 750 and the social pension was set at PLN 840. The proposed law amends the current provisions on retirement from office of persons who, prior to reaching retirement age or the acquisition of pension rights, were entitled to a pension for incapacity to work. After the amendment of the Act, regardless of the length of the premium and non-contributory periods, these persons will receive a pension of PLN 1000. To date, these persons have only had the guaranteed amount of the benefit at the level of the previous pension of the type in question. The proposed amendment aims to increase the amount of benefits and, if only for this reason, deserves support. There is a legal gap in the current legislation that does not exclude the possibility of applying for an invalidity pension when a person receives or acquires a pension. There is a provision in the draft law that prevents such interpretation of the rules. At the same time, it should be stressed that the legislators have not forgotten exceptional situations when the invalidity pension is due to accident insurance. In such a situation, accident victims will be entitled to apply for it despite reaching retirement age. I believe that the changes made will affect the transparency of the system and will improve the procedure for determining the right to pension benefits. The increased level of benefits will translate into improvements in the life situation of low income people. The changes envisaged clearly indicate that the benefit to ensure social security in the event of a certain retirement age is pension benefit. I consider the amended regulations to be reasonable and necessary. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the procedated bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u104	Thank you very much. One person entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question in this point of order. Would any of you like to speak again? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. I ask Mr Jarosław Porwich from Kukiz'15 to ask you a question. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u105	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I must say that I am very positively surprised by the brilliant ideas put forward by Mr Jarubas' representative of PSL. I only regret that for eight years, when PSL co-ruled, these ideas did not appear in the High House. [[Applause]] That's one thing. I have questions for the Minister, on the other hand. Just a little bit. Why is it only now proposed in this project that the rules governing the granting of pensions for incapacity for work are regulated? Why are they not included in the Act adopted on 2 December 2016? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u106	Thank you very much. I ask for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for your unanimity as regards the support of the Government's draft law on amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law, and to thank all parliamentary clubs. I think we all see the need to amend the rules discussed today. It can be said that the history of the amended legislation dates back to 2005, when a new legal institution was introduced into the Polish social security system - the institution of retirement from office by the person entitled to the pension for incapacity to work with the achievement of the retirement age. This is an exceptional solution because it is an exception to the principle that the right to a specific social security benefit is determined at the request of the insured person. In this case, the right to a pension shall be determined ex officio by decision of the pension authority. It can be said that it is an institution which is already in force 12 years after the law amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law entered into force. During the discussion on this project, several times the question was why it was so late. I'll try to answer that question. In fact, the need to revise the rules governing the transition from the pensioner's status to the pensioner's status results from existing or existing arrangements for the valorisation of pension benefits. It can be said that we have so far applied the principle that pension benefits are valued, increased by a percentage rate taking into account the price increase of consumer goods and services and the share of the wage growth rate, including the so-called "wage growth rate." the valorisation index. According to the valorisation rate or the level of valorisation, the amounts of the lowest pension benefits, the lowest incapacity for work and the lowest pensions have been raised so far. The phenomenon, the problem or the legal gap that you mentioned in the course of the discussion really made itself known on 1 March 2017, when an unprecedented operation to increase the amount of the lowest pension benefits in the general social security system was carried out so far. As long as the amounts of the lowest pension benefits increased as if according to the valorisation rate, it could be said that these amounts followed precisely the price increase rate of consumer goods and services, taking into account this wage element. On 1 March 2017, the lowest pension benefits were increased from PLN 882 to PLN 1 000. PLN in the case of pensions and total incapacity pension and up to PLN 750 in the case of partial incapacity pension. It can be said that this guarantee, which was enshrined in the Act, guarantee that the old-age pension will not be lower than the amount of the pension for incapacity for work previously collected, has been insufficient for those persons who have failed to reach the required contribution and non-contributory period of 22 years for women and 25 years for men today, but since 1 October following the entry into force of the Law reducing or restoring the previously applicable retirement age of only 20 years for women and 25 years for men. It turned out that the group was about 105 thousand. recipients are not covered by this guarantee to obtain at least the lowest pension benefit, even though they were covered by the guarantee to obtain the lowest pension for incapacity to work. Hence, the initiative, the idea to amend the law and, you can say, extend the circle of people covered by the guarantee to obtain the lowest pension benefit just for those who previously charged the pension for incapacity for work and did not achieve this minimum period of insurance. This is one element of the bill discussed today. The second element is actually similar in nature, that is to say it complements a lack, a deficiency or a legal gap in the social security system since 2005. In fact, the intention to amend the Pension Act at that time in 2005 was to eliminate the possibility of taking an invalidity pension after reaching the retirement age. This is what this institution of transition from the status of a pensioner to the status of a pensioner was intended to serve. One could say that one problem was not noticed. Namely, it was not included in the provisions of the amended pension law at that time, which would make it impossible to apply for an invalidity pension to a person who reached the retirement age, i.e. a mechanism for the transition from a pensioner's status to a pensioner's status, but no rules were introduced which would limit the possibility of applying for an invalidity pension by a person who has already reached the retirement age. As far as this element is concerned, it is also an attempt to answer the question of why today we are discussing change and the elimination of the current lack of regulation. So this is the element that results from the pension review that was carried out in 2016. The results of this pension review were presented to the High House and one of the elements advocated in this pension review concerns this second element of today's draft law. Once again, I thank all parliamentary clubs for their support for the government bill and ask the High House to vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u108	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Barbara Bartus, also wanted to take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to Mr PSL's club speech. The Minister also answered the question of why at this point we are correcting this law, why this was not done before. This, too, was a discussion in the committee and we made clear during the work that this amendment does not concern any last period, it does not concern the revision of the law that we adopted at the beginning of this year, which was implemented at the beginning of this year, when these increased values were granted, when the lowest pension was increased, because this amendment, which we are proceeding today, concerns a law which was adopted on 1 July 2005. She was processed in 2005 and I know that in 2005. PSL was no longer in the government, but all clubs then voted in favour of this law so that the pensioners could retire from office without additional requests, while this benefit was not guaranteed at the level of the minimum benefit, only under normal advantages. Here you could, being mean, and I don't want to be mean, ask why PSL hasn't improved it for eight years when it was back in the government with the Civic Platform. But this also applies to the second topic that you have asked to raise. It's about benefits for pensioners who get the lowest benefits. I just wanted to say that such additional benefits, such pension allowances were paid only by the Government of Law and Justice. This was paid in 2006 and 2007 when there was no valorisation due to the fact that this annual valorisation had been removed in the previous period. At that time, the Law and Justice Government paid such allowances and this allowance was paid in the previous year. In the years 2007 and 2015, I would like to say that the coalition at that time rejected all the subsequent draft laws that the Law and Justice had made, and I can say that because I have been the applicant for such a law several times. Then the PSL, the entire PSL-PO coalition, did not bow down to the fate of pensioners who receive very low benefits, as I said in my previous speech as rapporteur. Even in my office there was a woman who had been retired for several years, had been on a pension before, and showed me that the benefits she received were five hundred and tens of zlotys. And over the years, this situation persisted. I am very pleased and thank the Ministry, the Minister, once again, but also all the Members who supported this proposal in committee. I also think that this project will be adopted quickly, and those pensioners who have really very low benefits will be sure not only that they will receive higher benefits next year, but also that this will be an adjustment for the year when such a significant increase has not been received. Thank you so much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u110	Thank you very much. I understand that the Member is on the point of correcting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I wouldn't want pensioners and pensioners to know that the Polish People's Party is against the bill, because it's not. This brief reflection in my speech is, of course, a request and an appeal to Members of your formation because I presented there a good pension, 40 years of working experience, the allowances you are talking about. The state did not support the additions that Polish People's Party... [[But I understood that.]] Of course, of course, my fellow Member. Therefore, I ask you to support good projects of the Polish People's Party, which also serve pensioners and rencistoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u112	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016 (prints Nos 1776 and 1806). I would very much like to ask Mr Soboń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 12 January this year, Eurostat reported that Bermuda was the third country in terms of the volume of directly absorbed foreign investments of the European Union, and it was EUR 353 billion. The first place was the United States with more than EUR 2.5 trillion and the second was Switzerland with EUR 829 billion. On the other hand, in terms of the volume of foreign direct investment that entered the European Union, the United States held first place - EUR 2436 billion, Switzerland second place - EUR 627 billion, and Bermuda third again with EUR 503 billion. These numbers show where we are after Panama Papers. After all these scandals, tax havens are still a widely used way to avoid taxes. The OECD estimates that the tax avoidance loss is between USD 100 and 240 billion per year. Of course, the poorest lose the most, which is even more aggravating the inequality. Today, the 10 richest people have more wealth than the poorer half of mankind, and 1% The richest have more assets than 99% The others. At the same time Apple in Ireland pays 0,005% tax. The principle that taxes are paid by small and medium-sized enterprises, and international corporations optimize taxes, privatising profits and socialising losses, such as. banks during the global crisis, notabene the same banks that make the fourth part of Europe's income in tax havens, is - as Vice Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has said many times - a real hell for societies, budgets and states. In short, what is the mechanism of tax havens? Or we set up in a tax paradise a company to which we put our assets or e.g. the remuneration that is not taxed or taxed minimally, either we transfer money to companies in tax havens or sell goods by a company registered in a tax haven, thus avoiding tax in the country of our business. It can therefore be said that any step towards restoring the principle that companies pay tax where they make profits, where they actually do business, is a step in the right direction. Therefore, a multilateral convention signed on 7 June 2017 in Paris, so-called. The Multilateral Instrument, MLI, developed in the framework of the OECD and G20 BEPS project, is called by many experts a revolution in double taxation agreements. Poland is among the first 68 signatory countries and has been involved in this project from the very beginning. The Convention has now been signed by 71 countries and another six have indicated their willingness to sign the Convention in the near future. In total, more than 111 tax jurisdictions joined the ad hoc group that worked on the creation of the Convention. Almost all countries of the European Union are among the countries that have signed the Convention. The Convention has not yet been signed by Estonia - only signed a letter of intent. The Convention has already been ratified by the first country, Austria. We have a chance to be the second country to ratify this convention. Today, therefore, I have the honour to present to the High House a report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016, print No 1776. The joint committees are asking the Sejm to adopt a draft law without amendment. In the preamble proposed by the Convention, which constitutes its so-called "preamble." the minimum standard, the parties have written: "In view of the need to ensure that existing double taxation agreements are interpreted in order to eliminate double taxation in respect of taxes covered by those agreements without creating the possibility of non-taxation or reduced taxation by tax evasion or avoidance (including through the acquisition of contractual advantages by unauthorised persons, treat-shopping, with the aim of obtaining the benefits provided for in those agreements indirectly for the benefit of persons resident or established in third jurisdictions); "seeing the need to create an effective mechanism for implementing the agreed changes in a synchronised and effective manner within the network of existing double taxation agreements, without the need to bilaterally renegotiate each of these agreements (...) ', so much preamble. This means that avoiding double taxation must not mean tax avoidance at all and that the only way to ensure a certain standard at the same time in many countries and to change nearly 3 000. bilateral agreements have not lasted for the next 100 years, the best solution will be the Convention. Four areas were selected from several OECD reports on the necessary changes in tax law sealing systems, i.e.: hybrid structures, treaty abuse, artificial avoidance of the establishment of a foreign person and improvement of dispute resolution mechanisms. And that was the MLI convention. At this stage, the OECD estimates that it changes around 1100 contracts, of which Poland has notified to change 70 bilateral agreements. The Convention gives individual countries the opportunity to choose the extent to which it is adopted. And here Poland is ready to adopt the Convention to a very wide extent. Only, of course, it takes two to tango and so on. Poland indicated an agreement with Kuwait, but Kuwait did not. Such agreements, where we have the consent of the other party, Poland has 46 at the moment. It is also worth noting that although the Convention is superior, it does not replace bilateral agreements and will be applied either instead of bilateral agreements, or it will modify them or act directly in the absence of bilateral agreements. The Convention gives certain options and provides for mandatory provisions. The mandatory provision is to adopt a solution in the form of a PPT test - the principal purpose test - which means that the introduction of the PPT clause into the contractual provisions will prevent the use of the treaty provisions from being misused and used in aggressive tax planning. The clause provides for the absence of an advantage to the Treaty where the acquisition of these benefits was one of the main objectives of creating structures and concluding transactions. The adoption of the clause is a minimum standard and will therefore be introduced into all agreements with States that accede to the Convention, including those whose jurisdictions are abused for aggressive optimization. An example of this effect is the possibility to challenge the absence of taxation or the application of a lower rate of withholding tax, in Poland on dividends, interest, royalties paid to a foreign company, if one of the main purposes of the structure was to use the favourable provisions of the agreement. The option adopted by Poland is e.g. Real estate clause. The introduction of a real estate clause will allow taxation in Poland of the proceeds from the sale of shares or shares where the assets are mostly composed of properties located in Poland. An example of this effect is the possibility of taxation in Poland of income from the sale of shares or shares in the company by its foreign partner, if the assets of the company consist of more than 50% real estate located in Poland. Other options chosen by Poland include: regulations on: tax transparent entities - restricting the use of hybrid non-compliances, double-established entities - restricting the abuse of contracts, sealing the use of double taxation methods, sealing the collection of withholding tax on dividends or reservations on the right to tax own residents. These records form a whole with successive periodic warnings from the Minister of Finance, for example.: avoidance of taxes on income generated by closed investment funds, fictitious returns used to increase the value of the company and earn on depreciation write-offs, but above all before the fictitious management established abroad a capital company then used for tax optimization. The Convention also complements the tax evasion clause introduced by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the National Tax Order. When will the convention come into force? Assuming ratification and other procedures required by internal law by at least five States acceding to the Convention in October, November this year, we have 3 full months to enter into force of the Convention. However, the Convention will apply from the following year, i.e. the first amendments to tax agreements will have an effect at the earliest beginning of 2019. The very way in which the Convention enters into force is flexible, because countries still have the opportunity to change, until ratification and the extension of the Convention and after its adoption, and complicated, because other deadlines apply for withholding tax and others for other taxes. The ratification of the Convention by both parties is required to amend the existing double taxation agreement. Poland, as I said, is one of the first countries that have already undertaken ratification procedures. Finally, the concerns of Poles in the UK. We know about the petition that was made and which is addressed to the government. Although the convention concerns, once again I will highlight, large international companies, it raises doubts among Poles working in the UK. It is therefore worth noting that Poles who moved abroad together with their families and work there are not subject to tax in Poland at all. This means that if their center of life interests, i.e. family and economic connection is abroad, they will not pay tax on foreign income in Poland. On the other hand, if someone goes to work abroad only for a short time and returns to Poland, where e.g. His family lives, it may be subject to taxation in Poland, but it may benefit from a national provision called abolition relief, which brings the tax to the same amount as it was before the amendments resulting from the Convention. Generally speaking, the convention is about preventing people from taxing twice, i.e. paying no tax either in the UK or in Poland. After the ratification of the MLI by Poland and Great Britain, any doubts will be explained to Poles in the Islands, and I can assure you that in nine cases in 10 cases the Convention will have no impact on Poles working in the UK. Once again, it is about reducing the aggressive tax optimizations of the largest economic operators in Europe and the world, not making life difficult for Poles abroad in any way. Thank you very much for the opportunity to report on behalf of the Joint Commission: Public Finance and Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Before I give the floor to a representative of the Club Law and Justice, you will allow me to welcome the young people from the Second High School and the Third High School with Opole teachers. I wish you a successful visit to the Sejm, but not only in Warsaw. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen. And now Mr Zbigniew Biernat will present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016, print No 1776. The ratified multilateral convention was signed in Paris on 7 June 2017 by 68 signatory countries, including Poland. Poland has been involved in the preparatory work on this convention since the beginning. This multilateral convention implements measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, the international transfer of profits in order to avoid taxation. This includes: trade, transfer pricing, abuse of double taxation agreements, artificial creation of intangible assets. The entry into force of the Convention should result in the sealing of the tax system and hindering the transfer of profits realised in Poland and to countries with lower interest rates. The Polish Government has been involved since the beginning in the fight against tax avoidance and seeks to effectively seal the tax system. The Convention provides for mandatory application of the provisions of Article. 6, 7 and 16. It's so-called. minimum standard. The remaining scope of the Convention provides for the voluntary application of it by signatories. Poland, as well as other signatories, may submit its position in the form of reservations regarding the adoption of individual regulations of the Convention. The provisions of the Convention after entry into force will take precedence over the application in the national legal order, and in relations between the parties to the bilateral double taxation agreements concluded so far, the Convention will not completely or partially repeal any binding Poland of the international agreement, will only apply to the agreements which Poland is notifying. The provisions of the Convention are not contrary to Polish law or European Union law. Since the beginning of the term of office, the Government of Law and Justice and the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, have sought to seal the tax system, resulting in tangible effects in the form of an increase in the revenue of the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the Government's draft Print Act No 1776. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u116	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u117	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to avoid repetitions, so briefly. We all know that tax avoidance, including international profit transfers to countries applying preferential tax rates, is a nightmare of recent years and one of the ways to counter these transfers, but also tax avoidance are international tax agreements, including tax information exchange agreements. It is worth noting that in recent years we have had a lot of these bilateral agreements, but the truth is also that progress in this area, also in countering these bad practices, has been gaining momentum in recent years, because this has affected many countries, not only Poland. As part of the work of the OECD, there were threads concerning a formula that would allow the process to accelerate. We joined in April 2015, if I remember correctly, an ad hoc group that prepared these proposals. And we have the finale of this work in the form of this convention, which will certainly avoid these long-term bilateral talks and negotiations. As a result, it should also have positive effects in terms of our country and in terms of combating tax losses. Hence, of course, the Civic Platform Club also supports this project. We think he's needed. We are also pleased with the scale of the arrangements in this area already. Indeed, as I said, this will enable us to have a tighter tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis the Government's draft law on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016. The document we are debating contains solutions developed within the framework of the OECD BEPS project initiated by the G20, namely to counter the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The project results in international coordination of actions aimed at reducing aggressive tax optimisation and avoidance and creating tools for tax administrations to effectively combat these phenomena. The anti-erosion and profit transfer programme is aimed at creating mechanisms for States to respond to activities that lead to a decrease in the tax base and a transfer of income to low-tax or non-tax jurisdictions. The problems existed primarily in relation to the activities of international companies, resulting in a loss of budgetary revenue and a greater tax burden on citizens and smaller companies, which thus lose their competitiveness towards multinationals. The countries signing the document may choose one of three methods to avoid double taxation. It shall constitute an Article. 3 conventions. According to Art. 4 if, due to the provisions of the tax agreement, a legal person is established in the territory of more than one State, the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may determine in the territory of which the person concerned will be established for the purposes of the tax agreement. It shall be taken into account where the actual location of its Management Board, its place of establishment or any other way of establishing it and any other circumstances. In conclusion, the Convention undoubtedly contains a number of mechanisms that will reduce the abuse of tax law by traders through effective circumvention of tax treaties. This will apply to particularly large international corporations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits was drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016 and also signed in Paris on 7 June 2017. The Convention developed is the result of the OECD's work carried out in the framework of the Base Erasion Profit Shifting project, which aims to create solutions in the areas of taxation and tax cooperation most vulnerable to the negative consequences of international profit transfer in order to avoid taxation. These work sought to develop mechanisms that would hinder international transfers of profits to countries applying preferential tax rates. The result is new solutions aimed at sealing the tax systems of countries involved in the implementation of the project, including Poland. The BEPS project is therefore an important initiative which can have a long-term positive impact on your action at national and international level to prevent tax losses. Therefore, Poland's involvement in the BEPS project was justified both as an OECD Member State and as a potential beneficiary of the proposed solutions. The entry into force of the Convention will not have a negative effect on the revenue of the public finance sector, as the main objective of the Convention is to seal the tax system and hinder the transfer of profits made in Poland to other countries with lower taxation. Thus, its entry into force should only have a positive impact on the State Treasury's budgetary revenue. The binding of the Polish Convention will also be a significant political signal that we are engaged in the fight against the phenomenon of tax avoidance, as well as the fact that we are striving to seal our tax system. The entry into force of the Convention will affect the scope of the tax agreements concluded by Poland, ratified with the prior consent of the Act or recognised as such on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Its implementation will give priority to its provisions as regards the application in the national legal order and in relations between the parties to the bilateral tax agreements concluded so far, to which the Convention will apply or which provisions will be supplemented. The ratified convention will not completely or partially repeal any binding international agreement between Poland and Poland. It will apply only to those contracts which Poland ratifys at the latest at the time of deposit of the instruments of ratification. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, please present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft Act on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing treaty measures into tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, drawn up in Paris on 24 November 2016. These are prints 1776 and - the committee's report - 1806. The joint committees have given a positive opinion on this project. In general, the bill agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys this convention, and the main purpose of the convention is to seal the tax system and hinder the transfer of profits made in Poland to other countries with lower taxation, i.e. to the so-called. tax havens. In the course of the work on this issue, the Convention has developed mechanisms which will impede international transfers of profits to those countries applying preferential tax rates, with a view to consequently sealing the tax systems of the countries involved in this process. Solutions have been developed for areas particularly vulnerable to tax avoidance, such as: about e-commerce, transfer prices or abuse of double taxation agreements. The convention we are debating will prevent the loss of tax revenue in both domestic and international trade. During the signing ceremony of the Paris Convention on 7 June 2017, 68 signatories signed the Convention and together with the accompanying text an explanatory statement. Poland is among these signatories. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports this bill, i.e. supports the ratification of the Convention by the President of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u124	Thank you very much. Two Members were included in the list of people who wanted to ask a question in this point, with Mr Sylwester Khrushch making a written request to the Minister, and Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, the Law and Justice Club, will give the question. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. You're welcome, sir. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are here debating the regulation of the tax system on a global scale, on an international scale. The rapporteur made a very good point when there is virtually no risk of double taxation. I have only one question for the Minister, the rapporteur, about tax avoidance. Dear country, the entire Polish economy expects something such that the tax system affects all companies in one way, in an equal way, because, as we know, the cost component of each product is not only a material contribution, it is not only a personal contribution, but also a burden factor, a tax factor. Whether it's a 15% tax or 19% , this is a very important cost indicator of a given product [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the possibility of tax avoidance or tax reduction leads to destabilisation of the economy and unequal competition. Therefore, I have only one short question: Will we have instruments that will somehow effectively guarantee economic equality for Polish entities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. The tax system is a very complicated creation, it has many aspects. There are different definitions of taxpayers, different categories of entrepreneurs. They are variously qualified in terms of tax burden as profitable and indirect, i.e. popular VAT. I would like to say that this law, which we have submitted to the House, is one - maybe important, but only one - of the elements of the whole reform complex and of the legislative and operational changes related to the activities of the National Tax Administration aimed at, on the one hand, the construction of the budget revenue, but on the other hand, precisely level playing field, level playing field for all companies, so that they compete in terms of quality of services, quality of goods, customer service, price, and not tax optimisation, which unfortunately harms this competition and harms most often or those entrepreneurs who, by definition, want to be honest or extremely honest in taxing, or those entrepreneurs who simply do not have the opportunity to use these international tax optimisation instruments and are burdened with this additional cost-making burden on their activities. Therefore, the entire effort of the Ministry of Finance and the Government is directed towards creating a safe space for doing business in Poland, so that taxes are not the factor that causes the company to win or lose competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u129	Whether legislative work is underway to determine whether, in the case of income from temporary work of tax residents in the United Kingdom or, for example, Do Norway have to submit PIT in Poland or pay tax advances? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u130	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on basic health care (prints 1813 and 1813-A). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew the King to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor of passing away. 25th year after the implementation of the reform plans for primary health care, submit a draft law on basic health care to further process. Allow me, this will take a moment to present the concept of this project, so that further process is to process both this project and this part of the healthcare system, and not as if different generals. Firstly, basic healthcare plays a key role in the health system, which is highly dependent on the effectiveness of the whole system. Without a good POZ effective system we probably will not be able to build, as we are experiencing today, our patients especially. The experience of other countries shows that well-developed and organised basic health care is able to meet up to 90% of the population's health needs. POZ can not only provide this name-based care, but also has the potential to carry out part of the specialist consultation and thus limit the number of often unnecessary hospitalizations and consultations. POZ can and should play a key role in the system, it should be the foundation of this system and has both the predisposition and the need for potential. However, this need for reform, which stems from the proposal presented to you, refers to the lack of appropriate regulation to strengthen the role of this level in the healthcare system. Currently, issues relating to POS are regulated in a number of different legal acts, which is why new solutions are justified for the development of this area, which will allow to redefine the role and place of POZ in the health system. Most importantly, the reform will create mechanisms for continuous improvement of the quality and safety of the benefits provided, including the organisation of the functioning of the POS and as a result of the whole system. At the moment, this role is marginalized with a loss to both the patient and the healthcare system. The aim of the reform that we want to implement through this draft legislation contained in print 1813 is to strengthen this part of the system and, importantly, to create the conditions for improving the effectiveness of basic healthcare. We want to make an even greater contribution to preserving and improving the health of our country's society, and the benefits for citizens are to include among others. improve the satisfaction of the care provided, increase the availability of benefits and improve the quality and safety of the benefits provided. In particular, it will be very important to improve the coordination of care for patients. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce a model of patient-centred care and health needs, to increase the role of prevention and health education, to coordinate and integrate treatment at different levels of medical care, to optimise the treatment process, to create a mechanism enabling financial incentives for healthcare providers to continuously improve the quality of their services. The key objective of the reform is to set up POZ teams. Every patient in Poland, every citizen of our country will be taken care of by such a team, including a doctor, nurse and midwife. The team's work will be coordinated by a doctor who will determine how and how to perform diagnostic and therapeutic measures on the patient. However, members of the team will work on the basis of the principle of professional independence of their members. We can in part, in many places of our country see such a situation already at the moment, but we know that it is only the most common care or form of care in which these three entities have a lot to show, so to speak, good will to show that such coordinated care within this team is offered to the patient. We want to create real conditions for such cooperation, for the constant exchange of information and comprehensive patient care. The team is to be the primary tool for primary healthcare. The Act does not impose any restrictions on the form of organizational and legal functioning of teams. The possibility of different medicinal entities, such as entrepreneurs, natural or legal persons, for example, to operate in the area of POZ will be maintained. SPOZ, non-governmental organisations, and apprenticeships such as individual and group practices, medical, nursing or midwives' practices. In all the activities carried out by the Ministry, we want to make coordination a key principle for the operation of this system. The ideas of health care in recent years have been based on the principle that money follows the patient. Today we already know that this is not really, first of all, true, and it is not quite an effective method to build this system effectively. However, before we knew it, the care system was quite fragmented and today it consists of a number of autonomous units, each of which treats patients suffering from a different disease and on different terms. That is why we want to restore the coordination of healthcare with the patient in the health system. The pillar of this coordination, the patient's guardian will be POZ. It is at this elementary level that the doctor should direct the patient, as appropriate, to the appropriate area in the healthcare system. The draft law introduces a model of patient coordination, including the use of ICT solutions. The intention of this model is to ensure continuity and comprehensiveness of care, so that the patient remains healthy as long as possible. The coordinator, and in many cases the patient's guide in the health care system will be the doctor of the POZ working with the nurse and midwife. A great deal of emphasis will be placed on the cooperation of primary health care with other parts of the system, in particular with outpatient specialised care. There will also be an emphasis on the exchange of information on the patient's health, e.g. in terms of diagnosis, treatment, prognosis, or ordained medicines - the possibility of introducing a prescription will then be much easier - or the appointment of inspection visits. Within the framework of coordination, patients will be provided with preventive care appropriate to their age and gender, as well as diagnostic studies and specialist consultations in accordance with individual diagnostic plans for a particular patient, a prepared treatment for him and comprehensive care. The draft law requires each provider to designate a so-called provider. an administrative coordinator to coordinate the organisation of the process of providing health services, including the provision of information to the patient on this process. The introduction of a coordinated care model will be preceded by a pilot programme which will be implemented by 31 December 2019 under the so-called provisions. pilot law, whose project you have in sejm print No 1791. The new POZ we want to rely to a large extent on medical specialisation, which will be related to this level of care, i.e. family medicine, which we supplement with pediatricians as well. Doctors with the title of specialist in family medicine will be the strength of the new POZ. However, conscious of the challenges facing us we do not close ourselves to other specializations: the doctor of POZ is also a doctor with specializations in general medicine or in the field of internal diseases. This is what we will keep for a few more years so that all - and doctors and patients - will have time to adapt to the new conditions of the basic health care system. Like the safest Western European countries, such as England, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, we want to shift the task of coordinating treatment to a family doctor. These changes require preparation, doctors are needed for these specializations and well-educated medical staff, so we want to achieve the desired condition after 1 January 2025. In the end, a primary health care doctor will be a specialist in family medicine, a doctor during such a specialization, a specialist in general medicine, a specialist in first or second degree medicine or a doctor who is a specialist in the field of pediatrics. Importantly, the right to work in POZ will also be preserved by doctors who are in this system or will be in it before 1 January 2025, among others. Internists who provided benefits just until 31 December 2024 and doctors who have rights acquired under the provisions of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The same approach was adopted for the nurse and midwife of the POZ, specifying as the target qualifications the completion or completion of specialization training or the qualification course in the field of family nursing or having a professional degree in nursing and maternity respectively. At the same time, due to the shortage of staff specialising in family nursing, it was assumed that nurses and midwives of the POZ would be respectively nurses and midwives meeting the previous qualification requirements - in this area there is a broad catalogue of qualification courses and specialized training - which will provide health services in primary healthcare before 31 December 2024. One of the priorities of the whole health service, but also of this level of care, i.e. primary healthcare, is the implementation of solutions to improve the quality of services and the creation of mechanisms for monitoring this quality. These actions will be implemented systematically in every area, especially in those that we are undergoing a thorough reform, such as the POZ. The proposed regulation introduces an obligation to monitor the quality of the benefits provided, including inter alia. obtain health effects, availability, complexity and continuity of the benefits provided. In addition, it enables providers to participate in quality improvement programmes. As far as funding is concerned, funding in basic health care will thus far be provided by the NFZ's financial plan. The financial plan for 2017 shows that PLN 9.9 billion is planned for basic health care, which is 13.5% expenditure planned for benefits. As we extend the scope of benefits, we also assume a progressive annual increase in expenditure on the functioning of this part of the health system. The current POZ funding system does not encourage active attitudes by healthcare providers and coordination of both prevention and treatment of patients. We are setting up a new way of financing, which is to be a incentive system, which should ensure that the resources allocated to health services are used optimally. The basic health care funding will be based on a capital charge. In addition to it, there will be a budget allocated, i.e. the resources allocated to the provision of coordinated care, a task fee, i.e. additional resources allocated to the provision of preventive health care, as well as an incentive supplement for the outcome of treatment and the quality of care provided to the patient. We want to introduce further reform assumptions gradually so that each of the changes will work fully from the date indicated. We don't want to wish for a bill that becomes a dead letter of the law. Therefore, the next stages of the reform will be introduced in the following years, when all or rather the vast majority of the participants in the system will be prepared accordingly. From 2018, we will launch a pilot programme, coordinated care and a new funding system will start from 2020, and family medicine will become a pillar of primary health care from 2025. In order to best show the whole of the changes that the proposed law is implementing in basic healthcare, it is worth to follow the patient's steps in this system and in this designed one. Currently, POZ is only a place of emergency intervention in the case of the disease - and this is most often the result of this level of care - while in the proposed system thanks to this act we want to make POZ a place to ensure not only emergency intervention of the doctor, but also prevention and health education. Currently in this individual approach POZ doctors and POZ nurses are independent of each other, i.e. treatment of the patient is reduced to uncoordinated and ad hoc activities. In a system where the primary healthcare team operates, we propose extensive cooperation - and we will give these opportunities - between the doctor, nurse and midwife, which will mean the treatment of the patient based on individual therapeutic, diagnostic, health plans for each patient requiring such care. Currently, the patient is forced to refer to the so-called. a real specialist doctor, but we want the patient to receive a package of studies and specialist consultations in the proposed system, which will be coordinated by the family doctor in consultation with the specialist. Currently, a patient who has received referrals is lonely in search of healthcare providers. We want the proposed POZ system to coordinate further management of the diagnostic and therapeutic process by providing information and organizational support to the patient. Currently, the patient disappears from the field of view of POZ after a complete diagnosis or treatment. In the future, the POZ team will cooperate with other parts of the health system, pass on information about the patient and constantly take care of him. The planned date of entry into force of the first proposed solutions is 1 December 2017. We are prepared for this at the Ministry of Health, so we ask for active work in the Sejm. At the same time, we are still open to suggestions and proposals on the practical functioning of the new basic health care, which is why the government has submitted Self-correction to the bill, which proposes maintaining the current legal status, which allows the doctor to provide health services to children and young people until they reach the age of 18. In addition, the amendments proposed in the self-correction oblige pediatricians, internists and specialists in general medicine to take a course in family medicine organised by a future institute for family medicine or post-graduate medical training. This obligation should be met by all the doctors mentioned providing basic healthcare after 1 January 2025. The scope of the course will be defined in the framework programme drawn up by the Minister for Health. The amendment provides for the entry into force of the provisions on the organisation of courses in the field of family medicine on 1 January 2019 in order to ensure a 6-year course period. In addition, the aim of the self-correction is to enable the implementation of comprehensive activities of the POZ for disease prevention, including health promotion, education and the identification of risk factors, in local communities, among others. in cooperation with public administrations, including local authorities. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Please continue to proceed with this bill. [[Applause]] [[The opposition applauds because they forgot yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. Well, maybe it'll be quick to process if the opposition's applauding. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About the applause... [[For the minister.]] Yes, for the Minister, but it must also be stated that the representatives of the POZ have been actively involved here, because there are representatives of primary health care, family doctors who certainly know what we will be discussing here and later in the committee or subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which has been announced for a long time, is extremely important. It seems that this has been a long time, as we have discussed several times in the meetings of the Health Committee not only during this term, but also in the past, should take a form that this should be adopted in the form of a law. It is obvious, and this is something that we have often discussed about basic health care, that it is really the foundation of a system that does not function in the way that everyone would expect, both patients and people working in primary health care. Of course, you can have various kinds of comments, which are also sometimes contradictory, are reported by different environments, but everyone agrees that 80% medical events should be dealt with at the level of primary health care, but we are dealing with such facts, situations where the family doctor has only a capital charge and there is no additional funding for diagnostics. It is not uncommon for patients to be directed - most often as they are expected - to specialist doctors. That's how the line to the specialist gets longer. We know that, for example. a fixed diabetes mellitus could continue to run the family doctor as much as possible. There's no need for a patient to go to a specialist every time. Among other things, this law, this coordinated care referred to by the Minister - a small amount of time does not allow for a very detailed and broad reference to this issue - hence the creation of these teams within the framework of basic health care, hence finally cooperation with specialists, but also the award of family doctors for good work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law which, in addition to the hospital network, is intended to fundamentally change the functioning of health services. So what if there's a network of hospitals that will be operational from 1 October if we don't make a breakthrough at the level of POZ? I hope that this law will also lead to a different funding system, but also to the remuneration of primary healthcare doctors. And care, and cooperation with the specialist will take place not only as stated in the Hospital Network Act, on the hospital line - post-hospital care in AOS, but also the other way: family doctor care and his cooperation with the specialist to whom he will direct patients. This, Minister, I hope, a change and some sort of small revolution that will restore this system to the right track, will set it on the right track. At the same time, I count on constructive cooperation from all clubs, including opposition clubs, during further work on this law. There are several family doctors who I cordially urge and kindly ask to work on this bill or in the subcommittee or in committee or during further work during the second reading. The Law and Justice Club supports the government's proposal submitted by the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u134	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Lydia Gądek will perform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These applause, of course, were due because it is one of the most popular ministers in the department, so it is well known that yes, and also the family doctor, and it is understood by itself that there have been applause for the drafting of this law. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am pleased to present my position on this bill, a law that has been created for several months, and in fact attempts to create this law have been undertaken for several years. The greatest advantage of this legal act is... [[That it is.]] ...that he's finally up. I have to say, it satisfies a lot of people. On the other hand, we were dealing with this, we were waiting for a modern legal act, which will contain all the demands from both the expert, the medical side and patients, because we cannot ignore this. Unfortunately, the bill presented is actually a kind of writing status quo of the basic health care organisation today. [[It's important too.]] Of course, the plus, as I said, is that it is collected in one piece of legislation, it will be subject to further, I hope, constructive work and a much better act than a model will be developed. For many years we have been talking about the POZ team led by the family doctor, who will be the patient's guide and not just the patient, because every citizen of the Republic, in the health care system. But such a team, which is referred to in this law, actually already exists, i.e. a doctor, an environmental-family nurse and an environmental-family midwife, and also cooperation with a nurse in the environment of education and education. We were talking about a team that's actually able to take full coordination over the patient, so for what we already have, we'll have a dietist in the team so we can have a physiotherapist and a psychologist. Then we can actually take over a huge amount of benefits in terms of care, especially the patient who is chronically ill, and that is what we really want. It is no secret that today around 10,000 are missing from the primary healthcare system. Doctors. The average age of no one wants to count precisely when it comes to doctors working in POZ, because it would probably be an impulse to extend the retirement age to about 95 years, and this is unfortunately not acceptable for steths. As it is said that we will narrow down the circle of doctors without additional training mechanisms in this area, at the date of entry into force of this law we will have a shortage of around 20,000. Doctors. Coordination of care for the recipient - fantastic password. This is what we all want to do, but we do not have any mechanism written in the bill that would guarantee us that this coordination will be real, because at one level we have in the hospital network law the coordination of care for the hospital patient and his fate after hospitalization, that is, hospital clinics, and here we are talking about coordination in POZ. Today we have no connection between two separate coordination systems, otherwise a very indicated and necessary system. Therefore, this mechanism, I hope, will be recorded in the course of the work by law. Ladies and gentlemen! Time is not enough, because you could probably talk about it for at least an hour, while gentlemen don't talk about finance, but if we don't write in the bill adequate funding for those godly wishes that are really worthwhile in many cases, then unfortunately none of them will be. 2 pages of the 20-page bill are devoted to describing exactly what the declaration to the doctor of the POZ should look like, and in the same law, in the article. 22, there is one sentence about financing, and in addition, in the amending provisions we are talking about the budget entrusted, the incentive budget and the task charge. Everything's fine, but, Minister, then it'll make sense if we write it down or in a quota way, which is unlikely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - the last sentence - either in an indicative or percentage way, which is much more real in our conditions, as in the following year will increase the expenditure on these benefits in respect of POZ. Then this bill will make sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law on basic health care. Kukiz.15 is not against coordinated care. In fact, it can improve management efficiency and positively affect the quality of care. But just so it's not as sweet as it is so far, I'm afraid. First of all, we know that these teams are to be created by a POZ doctor, a POZ nurse and a POZ midwife. Where are we gonna get these people? There's a huge shortage of HR. Nor is it a secret that the average age of each professional group is high. In the case of nurses, it is assumed to be 51 years old. These are very serious things, especially since the reform will not enter immediately, but will enter with time, one at a time. So we have to assume that these staffs should be supplemented somehow. I have just had meetings with the environment of nurses and midwives and there is no green light here, it is not visible that we have so-called at the moment. sucking young people into this competition. The situation is also serious when it comes to doctors, because we have a problem, there's nothing to hide, but doctors go abroad. This problem also applies to nurses, of course. So I am concerned that we will simply have people who will implement this sensible idea in my opinion. Next thing you know, from the point of view of the patient I am, I have some concerns about the level of human resources that deal with basic health care. I don't know if we can fix it in such a short time so the patient can feel safe. There are voices that this reform is aimed at solving the problem of lack of specialists. It is said that there will be consultations, even there are such visionary speeches about video conferencing, etc. I do not know if the Minister knows that there are places in Poland where online registration to a doctor of the POZ or a family doctor This is the top of the line for what an institution can afford. And it's not just small community centers, it's also in larger cities. Poland, as far as the health system is concerned, is not only Warsaw, Poznań, Wrocław, it is also the county and communal Poland, and it is not so cheerful there anymore. So that is a very big problem and I have many doubts whether this idea, such a very futuristic one, will have a chance to realize in the next 10 years or even more. Consultations that would certainly shorten the queues to specialist doctors are very much needed, but in order to make real sense to the patient, the patient should take part in this as a person who will identify the specialist with whom the consultation is to be conducted. I also do not know exactly whether this reform assumes that we patients - now I speak for patients - will have the right to maintain in our, say, the extent of the cooperation of this specialist doctor with whom we work. This is a very important thing. We patients - as I say, I am - get used to specialist doctors. So I would like this specialist doctor to deal with, then take care of me - unless I have doubts about him, then of course I would like to change him. These are fears, but in our opinion these fears are not big enough for us to say no, let's not proceed with this project. Let's proceed, by all means. Working in the Health Committee or in a possible subcommittee may give you the opportunity to correct certain errors or to resolve certain doubts. There are also reservations in different environments about the fact that this law is quite general and incomprehensible with regard to certain issues. I also met with a question about the reasons why a pediatrician could not take care of children over the age of seven since 2025. This is a record that pediatricians simply cannot understand. Perhaps there are conditions here that will be presented in the Committee on Health or the subcommittee. Once again, I would like to stress: Kukiz.15 will not be against this law. We are very much in favour of referring her to committee work or subcommittee work. I wish you this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anything good, because maybe it will serve Polish patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u139	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law on basic health care. I will speak primarily as a doctor, but a hospital doctor who has so far associated primary health care with frequent presence in the E.R. and the S.R. I would like to point out that this is one of the extremely few projects under which the government is signed without hesitation, without shortening the legislative path by proposing a bill as a parliamentary project. I believe that this good practice will continue. One of the main objectives of the project is to define in a single legal act the precise principles and framework for the functioning of basic health care. At present, bureaucratic chaos and regulations, which are included in many other legal acts, can cause considerable inconsistencies, problems with interpretation and, as a result, hinder the proper functioning of individuals with whom each of us has contact. However, I would conclude on this list of positive aspects of this project, because many institutions have submitted a lot of comments to the contested law during the consultation process. By quoting just one passage, you can expose the quality of the health law created today. The opinion reads: The draft Act on Basic Health Care of 30 December 2016 in the presented form does not meet the expectations of the medical community and patients, and can be detrimental to the legal order and health care organisation in Poland. Of course, I am aware of the fact that, as a result of the consultation, the project has changed, but such a harsh criticism of the law allows us to assume that there is a lot of work to be done to ensure that its provisions actually contain all the key elements for basic health care, but at the same time that the law allows for efficient organisation of the law and adequate access to benefits for patients. Further comments in the course of the consultation were an excessive extension of the tasks of the POZ teams without indicating the sources of funding for them. Such an approach can only result in an even greater burden on doctors and, therefore, a directly opposite effect to the expected one, which would improve the organisation of primary contact units. He raised doubts, I would point out: he also evoked a record of children up to the age of 7 receiving health care by pediatricians, despite having the right qualifications to treat children up to the age of 18. Luckily, the applicant himself, in the latest self-correction, is rethinking, appropriately prolonging the care of children's pediatricians. The above mentioned and other reservations make the Modern, despite supporting measures to reduce the chaotic fragmentation of legislation, unable to support the project in this form. Therefore, our possible support depends on the shape of the project that it will leave the Health Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good that there will be one law, and this is probably an expression of the satisfaction of the medical community, of all of us and those who are involved in legislation, that all the elements related to basic health care will be collected in one piece of legislation. This is also what my previous speakers spoke about, who expressed satisfaction for this reason. I stress this fact because there are few things in this House that we can praise together. However, many people who care about health care are wondering, during these consultations it was also reported, on the feasibility of this law, whether this law is not just a beautiful record of our aspirations and dreams, whether it is right to be and the feasibility. Are we able to provide appropriate medical staff in the form of family doctors, nurses and midwives? If there's even a chance that by 2024 there's a number, I'll start with doctors, family doctors. In fact, in order to meet the requirements, Minister, this law, every year we should have another 500 new doctors specializing in family medicine and only after 20 years, if we had 500 each year, we would meet the requirements of this law, which is not 2024. It was also argued after consultation that the date of entry into force of these solutions could be shifted, and that such signals are already being made today. I would also like to ask the Minister about the public consultation right now. Have you reached an agreement at all points? What was the opinion of the Social Dialogue Council? Now, some of the groups that took part in the consultation say they don't see the records they're offering. That's the first line. Isn't the law just possible on paper, and really, in practice, nothing's gonna work out? My concern, as well as the previous speakers, raised a pediatric record. I don't know how it got through the Ministry of Health so that the pediatrician could take care of the child until he was eight years old. Whether this is an innovative approach, but in this sense innovation is not a good thing - rather let's take it traditionally that a pediatrician takes care of children up to 18 years old. I've seen a tweet by the Prime Minister in which he assures me that it will be changed. I hope that no one will think of it during parliamentary work, so that the record that says that a pediatrician can only take care of a child until he's eight years old has returned in whatever form. The issue of financing was raised in today's debate. We refer again to the NFZ and here the question of voters, probably to a large extent the voters of the PiS, because they were the most, as with the liquidation of the NFZ. In every bill you've been proposing recently, you're referring to the National Health Fund, which is to be liquidated. Will all these laws change in a moment when the National Health Fund is wound up? Can family doctors, nurses, midwives count on significantly higher not only earnings but funds for research? The ideal is to take care of the patient's health by the family doctor, health understood as physical, mental and social well-being. To do that, the band is a very good idea. Only, first of all, there must be people for this team, second of all, there must be money for the research that this team is going to do. If there is no money for research, the doctor will send patients, small and old, a pediatrician, an internist or a family doctor, I think that the internship should be present in POZ offices as much as possible, here we are probably different, to the hospital. Today we have a chance to talk about health and I would like to ask the Minister what happened to doctors resident. They're talking about a hunger strike. On October 2nd, they're announcing a hunger strike. They predict such a form of protest that they will give blood. I have read the opinion of President Hamankiewicz that he understands this type of protest, which means there are some suggestions. I know this doesn't directly concern this subject, but the doctors of the residents gain specializations, including in the areas we're discussing today. This is an extremely important issue, because there are also changes in night care and Christmas care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, for example, In 750 thousand Krakow only one hospital will provide pediatric advice. Parents today are very concerned that they will lose access to a pediatrician. Minister, please answer these questions. On behalf of my club, I declare work on the proposed law, but we will defend traditional solutions concerning e.g. Pediatrics, so that the pediatrician in Poland can treat children, not just children up to the age of 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u142	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on basic health care. The purpose of this Act is to provide patients with comprehensive basic healthcare at a high level and to create conditions that will motivate providers to develop and improve the quality of the benefits provided. It should be stressed here that basic health care is the most important in the health system, because it is the point of entry of the patient into the whole system - it is in the POZ that early diagnosis and prevention are provided, that the doctor can properly direct the patient to other levels of health care on the basis of the tests carried out. I must express my appreciation for the bill submitted. I am pleased that the government has noted the need to change the conditions of the systems relating to the role of POZ in the health system. This is the answer to demographic change in our country, in which seniors will arrive every year. Therefore, the introduction of coordinated healthcare is so important. A coordinated model of care will focus on preventive action, which will affect a higher level of health in later stages of life. The proposed bill contains provisions specifying the separate competences of the POZ staff: doctor, nurse and midwife. They will cooperate with each other in maintaining their professional independence. The Act modifies the principles of the right to choose a provider providing basic healthcare services. It allows three options: the choice of doctor, nurse and midwife of POZ with the same provider or the choice of doctor, nurse and midwife of POZ with different providers, as well as the choice of providers who form the POZ team. In addition, the Act gives the right to choose the provider free of charge and at the same time allows it to be changed twice during the calendar year. [[That's the way it is. What's the change?]] The reduction of changes in the provider during the year will have a positive impact on the care of the patient in accordance with the provisions of the Act. I consider the cooperation of the POZ doctor with outpatient care doctors to be the basis of the healthcare model. Thanks to such cooperation, the patient will have access to a wider catalogue of diagnostic tests and specialist consultations. The coordinator of the patient according to the bill submitted is the POZ doctor, whose task in cooperation with the nurse and midwife is to ensure continuity of health care. The legal regulations proposed by the designers will improve the organisation and functioning of the POZ. The proposed rules will help to improve the health of our country's society. I hope that patients will increase the level of satisfaction with healthcare provided and the level of safety of benefits provided. With the introduction of the law, the number of providers of services will increase both in family medicine teams and in independent structures, which will translate into more competitive treatment providers. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u144	Thank you, Member. 11 persons were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Would any of you like to join this list? I can't see. I'm closing. Therefore, we begin to ask questions. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club - 2 minutes. [[Applause]] [[Oh, good for you, Marshal.]] Finally, it's an important subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u145	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the 2017 National Health Fund's financial plan, a total amount of PLN 9924 million has been planned for basic health care, which represents 13.3% planned overall expenditure on healthcare provision. Minister, I have a question: In view of the fact that the proposed law is to enter into force on 1 December 2017, does the planned amount of 9924 million also cover expenditure on basic health care throughout 2018? If not, please inform me what is the planned actual scale of expenditure on POZ in 2018 and what will be the share in the value of the total expenditure on healthcare provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to my information, some POZ doctors are in favour of changing the functioning of these entities. They see opportunities and benefits, but they also point to threats. And so the project defines and adds the responsibilities of POZ entities, but without indicating the way in which they are implemented, which can result in systemic chaos. Environmental concerns are also raised by the setting of a rigid deadline for the introduction of coordinated care at 1 October 2020, which runs counter to the assurance of the Ministry that coordinated care will be gradually implemented in a way that will guarantee the health safety of patients and POZ undistorted functioning. Especially since the pilot of coordinated care will end on 31 December 2019. And here is the concern that a nine-month period is not too short to be able to draw accurate conclusions from this piloting. Another problem is related to the fact that the team is formed by a doctor, nurse and midwife, which can help to limit the ability of many existing entities to operate and, in the case of patients, to restrict access to POZ, because healthcare providers will not be able to sign contracts with the NFZ in the absence of a midwife, while midwives in Poland are dramatically lacking. Therefore, the law should allow a team consisting of a doctor and a nurse or a doctor and a midwife, in my opinion. Another issue concerns the rules for financing POZ, for which no capital funding has been defined, and we know that the lack of financial stability does not motivate - especially young doctors - the choice of specializations in the field of family medicine. So I ask: Is the resort going to make changes to my doubts? And the second question: What role will specialist physicians play in coordinated care: cardiologists, oncologists, orthopedics, etc.? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my speech, I didn't have time to move everything, so it's going to be a sort of continuation. The Minister himself mentioned - and this is how it works in many countries in the world - that the golden standard of healthcare is 20% of the expenditure on basic health care and 80% of it. completed health needs. We would like to pursue this, which would probably heal the situation in our country, but I will ask again. If there are no details in the Act, which is of course an important legal act, about how we will reach this 20% And if that's what we're gonna do, or we're just gonna enforce this 80%. and remain at 12.5% in which night and Christmas care is still planned, which has actually been transferred to hospitals, it would be good in further work to consider the introduction of a clear provision in the law on the fact that in the coming years we will be transferring to basic health care, at the expense of those changes which we will make, next, say, 2%, 1.5% , which is to be agreed with the Minister of Finance and with the head of the National Health Fund. If today the situation is that there is a dramatic shortage of family doctors, there are no doctors at all, but family doctors dramatically, residents, which are granted to individual voivodships, are usually not used when it comes to family medicine, then it is known that there is no incentive for young doctors to take up work in primary health care. So what if we write down that since 2024 there will be family doctors without pediatricians, without other specialties, when we don't really have them then? So? Are we going to reformulate the bill and re-introduce specialists who have been rejected as a result of the care entrusted to them? Unfortunately, it can't be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I'm going to say what I didn't say, ending my speech on behalf of the club. Of course, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of working on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u150	Thank you. I thought two minutes was a long time, my fellow Member. [[Yes.]] Zofia Czernow, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The necessary condition for the success of this project is the increase in financial expenditure on POZ. The expenditure on POZ in 2017 - as has already been said - amounts to PLN 9.9 billion and amounts to 13.5% expenditure of the National Health Fund. According to the justification, these expenditures are expected to increase over 10 years, above all this share is expected to increase to 20% of the expenditure of the National Health Fund. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that the pilot programme for the proposed solutions will cover 45 POS and will last for 2 years. Therefore, I have two questions about finance. Since when will expenditure on POZ increase: since the entry into force of the Act, or after the end of the pilot programme? For the pilot programme, separate financial resources are foreseen. And second question: What is the scale of the increase in expenditure on POZ? It's about absolutes, because it's also growing, and it's about to grow. It is simply necessary to know the scale of the increase in funding of the amount referred to. I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're all so warm about POZ, but I'd like to remind you a little bit of history. For 25 years there has been a function, a family doctor institution. At the time of its creation there was so-called. Health pyramid. It was the family doctor and the institution of primary health care that was the basis of this pyramid. There was an outpatient specialist on the second floor, and at the end, at the top, there was a hospital. What happened after 20 years? This pyramid has turned around. Today it is the hospital that is the basis of medical and outpatient, and specialist, where patients go first. Since the state introduced a bill a few weeks ago, which caused the night and Christmas aid to reach the hospital network, which is to distance itself from a patient who is assigned to his family doctor every day, how can we talk about coordination if this patient, during Christmas and night care, goes to a doctor who doesn't know him, who is accidentally on duty in this hospital, which is in the hospital network, and this network forces the operation of his night and Christmas help? This patient is going back to the family doctor. Where's the coordination here? Minister, please also answer how this coordination is to look at the level of the family doctor and specialist. Will the family doctor, whose resources are also resources for specialist consultations, be looking for a specialist among doctors who have signed contracts with the National Health Fund, or will he be looking for this consultant for an outpatient specialist in his private office? Will he encourage him with any reward? How is this coordination really going to work? Because personally, being a doctor, a specialist, I don't really see the possibility of a family doctor calling me and asking me to consult, I don't know how much, under what conditions and what conditions I'm supposed to meet with him. These are questions that come first to me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on this much-needed coordination, but I do not really see the possibility of coordinating these benefits by the family doctor and by the specialist doctor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u154	Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't think there's any doubt in this room that the system must be based on a POZ doctor. We are talking about this bill and this is obviously a very good time and very important... Much was said here about the absence of POZ doctors and therefore I would like to ask: What concrete solutions, what concrete proposals, alongside this law on POZ, are you preparing? What encouragement do you have for young doctors to choose this area and so that we can say over the course of these few years that the number of family doctors is actually increasing and that the family doctor is taking over the responsibilities that he should have? That's my first question. There are also others involved. I would like to ask: Will you ultimately, because ultimately this is the year 2025 or the next years, probably so, but will you be building teams within the POZ already? This also applies to the preventive nurse, dietetics, speech therapy. How will this be financed? That's one thing. The second case involves a specialist. At the moment, there is no doubt that specialists are the most frightened, because in fact two centres of power are being created: on the one hand the hospital, on the other hand the POZ, and on the other hand doctors specialists who feel completely unattended at the moment. I think it's very dangerous, Minister, because there are also deficits among specialists. It wouldn't be good if there was such a moment that they would only choose their own private offices, because then it would be really difficult to have access to specialist doctors. I think we should discuss this issue separately, and we should discuss it separately. That is why my question also concerns this issue: How will the family doctor be linked [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a specialist, a specialist, and a family doctor at the same time feel valued? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u156	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, True, this question has already been asked, but I will allow myself to repeat it in connection with the 1st of October, i.e. a reduction in the retirement age. Are you not concerned that there will be no nurses and midwives to implement this bill, because there is already a shortage today. In this competition? Certainly, after the entry into force of the pension reform, there will be an even greater shortage of these specialists. In addition, as part of the primary health care team, I found nowhere in this law - you do not plan this country - physiotherapists. There's an ageing society, so it's better to prevent than to cure. It would certainly relieve the system. Another case, another question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 in point 2, you indicate that the provider provides diagnostic examinations and specialist consultations. What does specialist consultation mean? Whether this is really going to be access within the POZ and POZ facility to a specific specialist, which is necessary in the treatment process, or maybe it is just and exclusively, because in this article. 14 you refer to Article. 4, admission point, so family doctor's contact with specialist doctor? If it is such a matter that specialist consultations are also to be provided in the POZ, the lack of financial provision in the National Health Fund budget for 2018 leaves this provision completely dead. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the care of POZ is the most important link, because it is the first. This first link of healthcare is often dependent on both our health and the effectiveness of the whole system, because if mistakes are made at the very beginning, then, apart from possible tragedies, the cost of treatment is rising later. The principles of this law are very good, comprehensive, everything is in one place. But I think each of us in our own experience knows that, at the moment, primary healthcare doctors can't handle the ad hoc provision of services. The queues are very long, and very often there are situations where patients are sent back to come the next day. My friend was worried about HR level, but I know it's not a problem with HR level, because education is good, only over time. The time and upsetness of patients who are waiting in the hallways cause that very often patients are not served as they should be served. You don't spend as much time as you should. For this reason there are problems, especially in the district Poland, where doctors' earnings are poor not only in POZ, but also in county hospitals. I would have a question: How many new medical departments have been created in the last two years, and how many applications have been made for new medical departments at the moment? Because here's the problem with total lack of personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u160	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u161	Dear Marshal! Minister! Indeed, basic healthcare should be the most important. She's very... The patients really want her to be well organized. The sick patients of various POZs come to my parliamentary office and complain that POZs do not meet their expectations. Because it's very often that a family doctor only writes an antibiotic for angina, possibly it's about extending the prescription. And that's it. Doctors are even slowing down to give patients a referral. So I wanted to ask you, what exactly will the patient gain from making these changes to the healthcare system? Thank you. [[Don't insult the doctors, no one's lurking. Minister, I think you've heard this and will comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is also about the patient. I wanted to ask you to explain what the transition period would be like. What this change will mean for a patient who is under the constant care of a specialist clinic today, e.g. cardiology, osteoporosis clinic, diabetes and ophthalmologic clinic, at the same time. I mean chronic diseases. Does this mean re-directing the patient to this clinic, and what will happen after the next visit to this clinic? Will the POZ doctor have time to read the discharge card from the hospital? In the last dozen years, I've only seen one time during my visit that the doctor has reviewed the discharge card from the hospital. And it's hard to blame, because if he's got a line of patients outside the door, it doesn't give him the comfort, the ability to focus on this patient he's got right now in his office. At the same time, I would like to ask why there should be a midwife in the POZ team if the team is dealing with a senior. It seems to me that a more flexible provision should be introduced here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u164	The last question will be asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u165	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Today we know what doctors are complaining about, what patients are complaining about: there are problems with access to already highly specialised studies, with access to a specialist, with referral from a doctor of PZ. And today, when you talk about this bill, you say: now it will be beautiful, beautifully, nicely, we will still monitor and examine the effectiveness of the work of those POZ doctors, to whom we will give the budget, they will be for you, patients, buying specialist advice, some additional research. Minister, just tell me this: the patient comes to the doctor of the POZ and according to this law the doctor of the POZ will have to do this, this, this and this, and we will verify his work in one way or another. The bill doesn't talk about it. It speaks of an efficiency study, but according to what criteria, using what tools and using which bureaucracy will this efficiency be assessed? How will the work of POZ doctors be assessed here? Second thing. That's what happened today. If today a POZ doctor directs the patient to a specialist, the patient will go and stand in line with this doctor. According to the hospital network law, which is already in operation, the hospital patient is to have preferences here. How will this have to do with the coordinated care of a POZ doctor? Third question: Where will the new doctors come from? What will the money be for POZ so that this care is really coordinated and well paid? This will also involve the number of doctors who will want to specialize in family medicine. What will this do for doctors and patients? What will this care look like in practice? And last but not least, Minister, today's case. So what if the P.O.Z. doctor works better? We'll watch, we'll see what you've come up with and how it's gonna work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But today's the problem, because a patient who's having a heart attack and can't wait in line, and he's not going to see a P.O.D. doctor... You are decommissioning the interventional cardiology department in Starachowice serving three neighbouring voivodships, because it is located at the interface, everywhere else far away. And now there's no more cardiology intervention unit in the hospital network.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u166	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u167	Minister, let me know what happened to a dozen thousand patients in Starachowice who will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u168	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u169	...to die without finding cardiac care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u170	Thank you very much. I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Zbigniew the King to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an important bill, absolutely, without a doubt, and the moment is equally important. Because our patients probably don't really accept the system we gave them and we're running right now. On the other hand, I would like to address these questions, and I will answer these questions, but I would also like to address those points that were mentioned at the outset. At first, Mr Latos spoke of a small revolution. This is a small revolution. Restoring family medicine to the primary care system, which we talked about in the 1990s, much more, much wider, definitely in a different context and with a different attitude towards this level of care, is certainly a revolution. Therefore, with concern at the current system, which functions as it does - I will also refer here to the staff resources mentioned - we do not want to make these changes from day to day. That's why there are plans for what they are. Mrs Gądek said that we have been talking about a team for several years. That is, the point is that we say to do it is still a long way to go, also on the occasion of this project. POZ teams operate in few places in our country, just like a family doctor who coordinates this work of the team, also operates in few places of the country, and this happens to operate in smaller towns... [[In the so-called. County Poland.]] ...in the so-called. Poland district and communal, rather than in large towns, is an example of which is especially Warsaw. With regard to full coordination, in this team, as you pointed out, there is a lack of dietist, a lack of a psychologist, a lack of a physiotherapist, probably many others. If we take this team that works on the list - and this is the information that doesn't go through here - then each of these members of the potential team has a declaration from their patient. Now that some of us know the family doctor we've chosen, I doubt most of us know the nurse, and I don't think many women know their midwife. We want to reverse this situation so that it's just a declaration that's important. I have chosen my doctor and if I have a medical need, even if such a cardiological one - at the end of the day, she was very emotionally talking about tens of thousands of heart attacks in Starachowice, there is no such epidemiology, there are not so many patients - I know my doctor and I can call him. I have my doctor, and I can call here to demonstrate that I have a health problem, but I don't have a problem, so I won't do it. As for dieting, the dietist doesn't have a list of patients, he's not from here either, he's not a person who's sort of part of this team. It's something that's been going on. How are we gonna do that? That is why statutory medical plans for a particular patient are created within the scope of these competences to choose what their needs are. If necessary, e.g. because of the large number of overweight children on the list, then such a dietist is absolutely necessary. But that's why we have these preventive programs that will be funded for the effects. Practice is supposed to be to perform according to your needs. We will not determine these needs here, at headquarters, we will not determine in Warsaw, only these needs are in places where actually identification is possible by the operation of this team. There's been a shortage of personnel here, too. Many of you express this concern. Of course, we are also concerned about the shortcomings in this area, but the idea is that we should operate with certain figures. At the moment, according to NFZ statistics, 33 thousand are working at POZ. Doctors. [[Voice from the room: Half of the jump.]] Half of the jump, maybe, isn't the thing we prefer. [[How many pensioners?]] A lot of pensioners, but it's also part of senior policy, so to speak. In a lot of comments, I hear you don't just block that possibility... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ...and we're not gonna do that, of course. [[But they'll be gone any minute.]] However, 33,000. for 38 million will be enough calmly, because as we introduced family medicine, we said that family doctors needed 20,000. [[But there's only 10,000 family doctors.]] Right now we have 11,000. This is obviously not enough, because these are doctors who have a specialty dedicated to this range we want. Questions about concrete actions have been raised, e.g. Ms Malecka-Libera asked. As far as the concrete actions in the plans are concerned, of course we must see the need for this specialization in these basic specialisations and we are working to encourage these doctors. The only concrete action I can say about from this tribune - this is also a remark in response to the comments made by Mr Kosiniak-Kamish regarding residents and protests - is that we are meeting with residents and young family doctors, a meeting was scheduled for 15 October to just listen. We have agreed that we will receive information on their observations regarding the selection of this discipline already at the level of primary education, i.e. university, as well as later specialization, i.e. residence, and we are counting on such information as to enter into the practice which they see needs and risks regarding the functioning of this practice. We also want, I mean, we plan, we create, so to speak, the basis for reconstructing the education process that was eliminated. I'm afraid it wasn't entirely appropriate. I am thinking here of regional centres for family doctors' training and coordination at this level. The lack of this coordination in these institutions has simply caused us to have too little impact on both the elections and the education process at the moment. The pediatrician case went through here, too. The self-correction includes: a pediatrician up to the age of 18. I would also like to respond to a group of comments made by Members on the health system. We built a system consisting of three levels, built it through a specially dedicated contracting mechanism. Systems in the world refer to primary care, such as general care, general care, as is sometimes defined, as well as specialist care. And here the division between these two levels of care is quite clear. Primary care has its recommendations, its operating rules, and specialist care is implemented at different levels, including outpatients, including hospital care and highly specialised care. These two systems... I mean, this is the system we'd like to build. I think he'd be right for us to bring it in. In this context, this remark regarding the exclusion of a pediatrician... Mr Kosiniak-Kamish is not here. The pediatrician is a specialist. This is a specialization defined for the selected age group and that is why such a proposal has come up or such an idea has come up. He didn't meet with the party, so I don't want to go back to him. Okay, now... [[What about the doctor's lingering?]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Doctors are lingering...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the doctors are acting rationally. This is how they behave, how the system is constructed and how they are stimulated to different behaviors. This is our role in building this system. so that behavior meets the needs of patients. This is also progressing within the framework of this law, perhaps imperfectly, and these comments I humbly accept, and I declare that, so to speak, the correct slope over them. However, there were also fluctuations in terms of concern for the competence of these doctors. I think that Mrs Gądek will hold a meeting in the subcommittee with primary care doctors, family doctors, and we will then be able to discuss these competences at the appropriate level. Besides being a family doctor, I was also a pediatrician at a high-tech clinic. After such a suggestion that just too many patients are going into a highly specialised system, because I also worked scientifically, I did a scientific study, I looked at medical documentation, clinical documentation, on the basis of which a third-level reference specialist is able to say that this doctor, then the primary health care, is malfunctioning. These are two different worlds. There's no reason to say that, except maybe those elements, that too many patients go to the S.R. But this is again the functioning of a system that we want to change. It's also included in this bill. There was a signal here, too, and I'd like it to resonate. I have my own specialist - it's from different sources, so to speak, parties - in the case of chronic care. It is the family doctor who is the person who, in the case of chronic illness, is the most suitable person to deal with most of the health problems in this specialization. We don't eliminate the benefits we've made so far, because that's not the thing we want to interfere with. Pilotage is to see, trace and diagnose the preferences of the sick, which forms of care they choose. This piloting is yet to show us how much the competence of family doctors and funding can therefore increase. Unfortunately, we need to be patient and wait until we have concrete results, an assessment of specific preferences. I think so. A health pyramid. The pyramid of health is more relevant to the pyramid of nutrition from what I remember. Pyramids, so-called The Kuszewski triangles, because I think the Member is talking about this, refer to a kind of theoretical arrangement of the amount of benefits and expenses for these benefits. The inverted pyramid represents some sort of cost. But again, if we look at it from the perspective of the three levels of the system, where this AOS... The concern of the Member for doctors of specialists who remain nobody, because there is a POZ and there is a hospital, is also illegal, because the specialist is in hospital and in outpatient medicine. This pyramid isn't even so much placed at the hospital right now, which is pretty much blown away when it comes to costs, and that's what you see in the NFZ's financial plans. As for finance, because there was also a lot on this subject, the financial plan of the NFZ at the beginning of this year was 9.7 billion, at the moment there is 9.9, there is an increase forecast yet, while for next year there is 10.5 billion in the financial plan that you adopted, with this growth. It's hard to say here... [[Percent, we'd be more interested in percentage.]] Percent, depending on the scope of the benefits received. Because if it is that most benefits, e.g. Diabetological, because here was a speech about this, or endocrinological, e.g. hypothyroidism, is carried out in an endocrinologist's specialist, then the scope of the doctor's services, which directs to such benefits, is low enough that we should not reward it. That's the idea we took... [[If someone's running a patient, we should reward him.]] And this system is about to make it not only a capital stake, but also additional elements that allow for extended diagnostics, just a specialist consultation, including telemedicine. Telemedicine in this case is not only that, so to speak, recording over the Internet, but also a conversation of a family medicine specialist with a specialist who advises specific care or a specific medical plan. Thank you very much again, and we are... [[Payment to specialists. How will the specialists be paid?]] Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u172	I think that this detailed discussion will be on the committee. And now, Minister, I understand, it's over. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Thank you, Minister.]] You seem to be the most popular minister in the Ministry of Health, [[Joy in the Chamber]] 'Cause now, and before that, applause. Now that we have finished the debate on this topic, the debate is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on basic health care, contained in prints 1813 and 1813-A, to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws (Print No. 1814). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u173	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I allow myself to present the most important information concerning the draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. In fact, this is a situation that sometimes happens when it comes to the legal system, although in theory it should not, namely the legal gap which requires legislative intervention. The question is to cover the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations. As a rule, we have an art. 117 of the Code relating to infringement proceedings, which states that the principle is that any expenditure in such cases is temporarily provided by the Treasury. The exception provided for in this provision concerns the costs of the defenders and the proxy, which shall be provided by the party which established them, possibly. It can be said that, in this situation, temporary costs are, in principle, provided by the State Treasury. But sometimes there are doubts. This concerns, in particular, the situation in which the investigation is conducted, and we are dealing with an authority or an institution which is subject to a local government unit, e.g. a municipal guard or a city guard, which is an organizational unit of the municipality and not a State Treasury. It is known that the municipality has its own personality, its own budget. Indeed, we are faced with a situation where there is no legal basis for imposing an obligation on the municipality, as on the State Treasury, to temporarily cover such costs. It can be said that this situation is inconclusive enough that we have carried out a study, in some units we have carried out such a study to see how many cases concerning investigations carried out in this mode, when actually, for example. the witness does not have refunded travel costs, the cost of participating in such an investigation in the event of a call, or a translator, or an accompanying person, or even an expert in certain situations. We know for sure that these cases may not be too much, but in fact they are deprived, they can be deprived of a person, for example. as a witness, the right of receipt for the costs of participating in such an investigation... This was dealt with differently in the local government. Well, some assumed that the guard should separate a budget and cover costs from it, for example. Witness appearances. Others said that the Treasury should actually cover these costs. In fact, there have been curiosities. There can be doubts, because if from the budget of the municipality, the budget of the local government covers costs, it could even lead to a break in the discipline of public finances. So the situation requires intervention. That's the kind of voice we've been getting. We are therefore proposing appropriate solutions. As part of our solution, expenditure incurred in the course of the investigation will be temporarily paid either by the State Treasury or by the competent local government unit, and will then be settled accordingly. Of course, the question is: What is it? As in general terms, the outcome of the case is decisive. If the procedure is terminated, in this case the costs, which were previously flat-rately covered by the local government unit, by the municipality, will in fact not be reimbursed, i.e. the municipality will have to cover them. It will be the same if the guilty person is acquitted. It's the same situation. In the event of a conviction, this person will have to cover expenditure which, on a lump sum or in advance and on a lump sum basis, will have to be paid in advance by the local government unit, i.e. as on a general basis. Of course, at this point, the question arises as to how this lump sum will be determined, what costs it will be. Here I would like to inform you that, at this moment in the Justice Department, we are preparing an appropriate solution, an appropriate regulation of the Minister of Justice, which will be an implementing act for this, I hope, bill, and there we will provide for an appropriate lump sum for the participation of the person concerned in the proceedings, at the stage of the investigation. And that is the whole point of the proposal, which, as a resort of justice, we are presenting, asking the High House to respond positively to this proposal and to fill the legal gap and at the same time to make the rights of the person concerned to pay its costs, e.g. participation in the proceedings as a witness will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u174	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Mark Ast to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and certain other laws contained in print 1814. As the Minister said, the aim of this project is to close the legal gap in the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct and in some other laws. In fact, Luke's argument is that there is a general principle that, in the course of the infringement proceedings, expenditure incurred in the course of the investigation is temporarily explained by the Treasury. However, there is no legal basis for covering such expenditure at a time when the investigation is carried out by entities subordinate to a local government unit, such as the municipal guard. However, there are a lot of such cases. The aim of this initiative is therefore to remove this legal gap. What are the proposals for dealing with this situation? Namely, that expenditure incurred in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of local government units will be temporarily provided by the competent local government unit and will then be settled, as so far the expenditure provided temporarily by the State Treasury, according to the rules of liability for the outcome of proceedings, i.e. on general principles. On the other hand, the expenditure provided by the State Treasury, the local government unit, will be of a flat-rate nature. That's what the Minister was talking about. And the amount of this flat-rate expenditure will be determined by the Minister of Justice in the regulation. In a word, it seems that regulation is obviously necessary, obviously necessary. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support these solutions. And, of course, on behalf of the club, I request that the draft law be passed to the committee responsible for further legislative work - the committee for changes in codification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u176	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u177	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present a position on the draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws, print No 1814. The draft law we are talking about covers the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by an authority subordinate to a local government unit, e.g. city guard or municipal guard. It goes on, among other things. o situations relating to the reimbursement of the witness's claim in the course of the operation carried out by the municipal guard or the municipal guard, e.g. It is about the reimbursement of the costs of commuting to a hearing or the loss of income due to a call from one of the guards, as well as other expenses, e.g. accommodation costs. On the basis of the applicable rules, it is not possible to clearly identify an entity which should, as a State Treasury, reimburse the costs incurred in the investigation of offences carried out by the municipal or municipal guards. The Guard is an organisational unit of the municipality which has legal personality and therefore its budget is separate from the State Treasury budget. In the proposed arrangements it was assumed that expenditure incurred in the course of the investigation would be temporarily regulated by the State Treasury or the local government unit and then settled according to the liability for the outcome of the proceedings. For the clearance of expenditure in the final judgment, it was assumed that the expenditure incurred by the Treasury or the local government unit would be flat-rate, except that the lump sum would not cover the costs of appointment of experts or institutions designated to issue opinions on the case and the costs of unpaid legal assistance granted ex officio by lawyers or legal advisers. In the event of termination of proceedings or acquittal, the costs of proceedings will be borne by the State Treasury or by the local government unit, while flat-rate expenses and other charges to the State Treasury or the local government unit will be decided on by the sentenced person. The draft law proposed by the government was quite widely consulted both with the legal environment and, importantly, with local authorities. A large proportion of the comments submitted were taken into account. I would like to draw attention to the proposals which I believe should be considered. For example, according to judges in the area of the Szczecin appeal, the draft law should amend the procedure for challenging the decisions of the investigating authorities. In view of the fact that judgments on the costs of criminal proceedings generally concern small amounts, it would be necessary to consider whether appeal proceedings should be simplified in this respect. In the view of the judges, it would be sufficient to challenge a decision to a regional court in which the seat of the issuing authority of the contested decision is situated. The Ombudsman, in his letter, asked for consideration to be given to a broader justification for the need for an administrative procedure on the costs incurred by a local authority unit on the basis of the proposed Article. 206 § 4 or possibly opting out of this arrangement and maintaining the general rules for the collection of these costs. I would ask the Minister to comment on these two matters. I would like to say, on the other hand, that we are in favour of directing this project to further parliamentary work. He actually fills the legal gap. This issue should therefore be addressed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present our position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on printing no. 1814. Minister, there is this gap and it needs to be filled out, here full agreement, we agree completely with the project. Nevertheless, I would ask you to consider this in one way. Is it worth creating so many points or not giving such a reference where the State Treasury covers such cases covered by the local government unit? Wouldn't that be easier? Then it would be short and clear. And only in this respect would we ask that this be considered. We will be in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u181	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club in the scope of the government draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws, print No. 1814. The aim of this project is to address the problem of covering the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by authorities under the authority of a local government unit. Generally speaking, it's the municipal and municipal guards. There is no doubt that we have been faced with a legal gap here, thus eliminating the question of interpretation concerning this issue, i.e. the question of expenditure incurred in the course of investigations, such as, among other things, the issue of expenditure incurred in the course of the investigation. The reimbursement of the travel expenses of a witness or lost earnings is important. The Modern Posel Club will support this government presentation. One comment only concerning the vacathio legis law, and in principle the introduction of this project at the moment. There is no doubt that the authorities of local government units adopt draft budgets by 15 November, while budgets themselves are generally adopted by the end of the year, hence, if this draft law had been a little earlier, then local government units could have planned a budget title related to these expenditures. The introduction of this from 1 January will not allow the planning of this expenditure in the budgets of local government units and will therefore make it necessary to amend these budgets. However, as I have already mentioned, this law is necessary and useful, and the club therefore requests that this law be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Association, I would like to present our position on the government proposal for a law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. At the same time, the project introduces and organises a clear principle that if the investigation of offences is carried out by a municipal guard or a city guard, the reimbursement of expenditure will come from the municipality's budget, and if these activities are carried out by the police or other public service, the reimbursement of witness expenses will come from the state budget. The expenditure will return accordingly to the budget of the municipality or the Treasury after the court has completed its proceedings. They will be charged with a lump sum by a convicted felon. It was therefore assumed that expenditure incurred by the State Treasury or local government unit would be of a lump sum nature for the clearance of expenditure in the final decision. The claim shall not cover the costs of the appointment of experts or the costs of unpaid legal assistance granted ex officio by lawyers or legal advisers. Until now, only the costs of legal proceedings have been borne by the convicted person. Only in the event of termination of proceedings or of acquittal of the accused will the costs of proceedings be borne by the State Treasury or by the local government unit. The State Treasury will therefore bear the costs in the event of the termination of proceedings or the acquittal of the blamed person. The amount of flat-rate expenditure in criminal proceedings in the course of investigations and in the course of judicial proceedings is to be determined by the Minister of Justice in the relevant regulation. High Izbo! On the basis of the current rules, it is difficult to clearly identify who is required to regulate this type of expenditure: the Treasury or e.g. the municipal guard, which is an organisational unit of the municipality. It is not possible to specify precisely the entity which should reimburse the costs incurred in the investigation of offences carried out by the municipal guards, which would regulate expenditure as State Treasury. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is clearly in favour of continuing to work on this project. Here I share the opinion of the previous speakers that, for example, the issue of not synchronising this legislative act with planning, Minister, budgets by local governments would require some reflection, but it is probably not too late in the work for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and certain other laws. In accordance with the justification for the project submitted, the applicant has set itself the objective of addressing the problem of covering the costs of criminal proceedings in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local authority. Above all, we are talking about the explanatory activities carried out by the municipal guard or city guard. Those expenditure should be temporarily covered by the municipalities to which the municipal or municipal guards are subject as their organisational unit under Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the 1997 law on municipal guards. However, the current wording of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters does not provide a legal basis for imposing such an obligation on municipalities. Similarly, it is a matter of indicating the entity responsible for the reimbursement of costs incurred in the investigation of offences carried out by the municipal guard. There is a legal gap which the applicant has rightly decided to remove. The proposed amendment to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters therefore applies in principle only to Section XIII, i.e. costs of proceedings. However, this is a very important change because the responsible state authorities must ensure that the costs of administrative, civil, criminal or, as in this case, criminal proceedings are regulated in a precise way, which does not generate unduly burdensome expenses for the parties and for the Treasury. The proposals, which in this project in particular need to be underlined, are, first, the provision that expenditure incurred in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local authority unit, i.e. the said municipal guard or municipal guard, will be temporarily provided by the competent local authority unit and will then be settled under the rules governing reimbursement of the costs of proceedings. Secondly, expenditure provided by the State Treasury or local government unit as a result of the proposed amendment will be of a flat-rate nature, with few exceptions, e.g. experts' fees. Finally, thirdly, if convicted, flat-rate expenses and other charges to the Treasury or local government units will be settled, depending on who was the public prosecutor in the case in question, and in the event of the withdrawal of the proceedings or the acquittal of the accused, the costs of the proceedings will be borne by the State Treasury or the local government unit respectively. The bill submitted is a short, but very necessary and expected amendment to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle will support this bill and request that it be directed to further legislative work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u186	Thank you very much. Four people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask a question. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In line with the proposed wording of the Article. 117 § 3 of the Code of Conduct for Offences of Expenditure referred to in § 1 of that Article, incurred in the course of investigations carried out by an authority under the authority of a local government unit, shall be provided temporarily by the competent local authority unit. I have two questions, Minister. In view of the planned entry into force of this amendment as of 1 January 2018, are local government units prepared for additional financial burdens related to the need to temporarily cover the costs of investigations carried out in criminal offences by authorities under their authority? And whether the proposed wording of the article. 117 § 3 of the Code of Conduct for Offences is to be understood as meaning that local government units will bear, on a temporary basis, any expenditure in the course of infringement proceedings, or will they bear only expenditure temporarily at the explanatory stage? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u188	Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u189	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I'd like to... Although the question may go slightly beyond the scope of the Government's submission, I have a question to ask whether you are also considering amending the code of offences in the field of criminal penalties and transferring the proceeds from the sanctions imposed by the authorities of local government units also to the budgets of local government units, as is already the case in the mandate proceedings. In this law, we impose an obligation for local government units to provide expenditure, while this principle should also work the other way. Will you possibly consider such a change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that these records should actually be improved, sealed and clarified, we are all in agreement here that this would have to be done. As I looked at this information on the analysis, the amounts that were given there, and the amounts of these claims for reimbursement weren't very large. On the other hand, it is unclear whether this was due to the fact that these rules were underprecise and that not even everyone knew who to turn to, who to turn to. Do you think, Minister, that the introduction of these provisions will significantly increase the number of requests for reimbursement when it is known to whom and under what conditions Do you have to turn around? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u192	Thank you. And last question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about a change in the scope of this complaint procedure of decisions issued by the investigating authorities. Here, I guess, that's the question. However, this is indeed the case, and this has also been raised in the context of a public consultation, relatively small amount. Is the Ministry in the wake of these consultations willing to make some concessions during the committee's work so as not to generate additional administrative activities, additional costs? Because, in fact, these amounts are not too big and creating such, I would say, complicated bureaucratic solutions in this case seem pointless. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u194	Thank you very much. And I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Wójcik. You're welcome. Mark... Michael Wójcik, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Honestly, I didn't think there'd be so many questions. It would seem to be the easiest of the simplest changes. But thank you very much for all these questions, because the idea is to make the law the most perfect one possible, not the defective one. I'm sure the flaw was that it wasn't regulated at all in the system. There were questions about the appeal, two such questions appeared. Art. 120, which says I will remind you that a complaint against the decision of the investigating authority on costs is brought before the superior authority and, in the case of: investigations carried out by the municipal or urban guards - to the prosecutor, investigations carried out by the prosecutor - to the parent prosecutor. If the superior authority or the prosecutor does not agree to the complaint, it shall refer it to the court responsible for examining the case, i.e. the district court. We can always talk about simplifying the appeal procedure. On the other hand, it seems that this mode we have adopted, modelled on the mode which is generally used in the Code of Criminal Procedure on general principles, is good. Of course, the question arose as to whether such a mode was good from an economic point of view. It can be good because it is this superior authority, the District Attorney or the District Attorney who can, in principle, take account of these complaints and the case will no longer be conducted by a court competent to investigate the case. I think that's how many of these things are going to be handled. But of course we are open to discussion during the legislative process. When the case goes to committee, we're ready to talk about it. As regards the issue of vacathio legis and the preparation of local government budgets for this change, please, as you have noticed - this is mentioned in the materials that were attached to this project - it does not involve any major costs, it is not a huge cost. We have consulted widely this proposal, among others. the case was brought to the meeting of the joint government and local government committee. As a general rule, there were no comments made here by representatives of local government, there was a positive opinion. Of course, we can talk about this because we have adopted the deadline for implementing these regulations rigidly, but let us remember that the legislative process is still ongoing, the end of September. The project has to go through all these different stages, so I don't know if anything would change it if we set this date a little differently. On the other hand, it does not seem to be any excessive burden on the budgets of local governments in this regard. Of course, the question is: Will the number of people who will benefit from this increase? We can't say that for today, it's impossible. As a general rule, these are not big costs, because if there are investigations, usually in the same municipality and these costs will not be big - as a rule, but it does not always have to be so. On the other hand, there will certainly be the right to request a refund. It's obvious. As far as execution is concerned, it will be conducted on a general basis. That's the question here. The court will send a copy of the judgment to the local government and the execution will be carried out by the bailiff. The question, I understand, refers to the issue of administrative execution. Of course, we can talk about this, but I do not know if local governments are interested in it. We can talk during the legislative process. It seems to us that this mode - that this is how it is done, in this mode - is not a bad solution. Are the local governments - Mr Bańkowski - prepared? I think, once again, this isn't an expense big enough to charge the government's budget so that this budget collapses because of the cost. I think it was more about filling a legislative gap, unfortunately functioning. With regard to Mr Pampuch's question about the penalty of order, we have not yet considered the work in this area, but we are indeed conducting extensive consultations on the transfer of enforcement of judicial claims to tax offices. We can talk, of course. During the legislative work, we will also be discussing this issue. The question, the question of Mr Meysztowicz concerning the number of applications. I am unable to answer how many such requests will appear, and certainly the situation of the person who is being questioned is uneven. by the police, and a person interrogated by the municipal or municipal guards. In the first case, we know exactly who will cover these costs. The Treasury. In the second case, we didn't know that so far, so there was some sort of inequality. It seems that this project, these solutions meet the expectations of citizens and are in line with the idea of justice. Mr Suchoń also asked about certain matters of a legislative nature. We are, of course, open to discussion in committee. Among other things, Mr Jachnik of the Kukiz Group asked. You asked for any changes, a rewording. This is a question of possibly some legislative amendment. We're open, I'm telling you again. I am glad that all clubs, circles have agreed that this is a good solution, while we will work on detailed solutions in committee. It seems, once again, that this decision, this solution should have occurred much earlier. For today we operate in such a state that it is practically unknown who has to cover these costs. On the other hand, as far as the details are concerned, naturally in the committee we are ready to talk and even meet your expectations. We'll try to make the law as perfect as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u196	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1814, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in the field of legal trade in family matters under European Union law and international agreements (Print No 1827). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u197	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not hiding that... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Hello, Your Honor Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide that with great satisfaction today I allow myself to present a draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. The title of this bill is somewhat complicated and sometimes misleading. Actually, it's about the following thing. There has been no law for 27 years that regulates matters relating to the handling of matters that are carried out under the Hague Convention. In fact, such cases were conducted in a customary manner. It's normal. When the request was received under the Hague Convention, the department concerned was normally dealing with such matters. These are most often parental abduction cases that are conducted under the Hague Convention, but we also have matters of a caring nature and maintenance nature, i.e. three such parts. And in 27 years, unfortunately, no solution has been developed to determine exactly what happens after which, what are the next stages. This would be a guarantee for those who participate in the whole proceedings, but it would also be a guarantee protecting the central body, which in fact is the Ministry of Justice in Poland, which deals with such matters. The second thing that concerns this project is the case of parental abductions under the Hague Convention. So we are most often dealing with a situation in which on the one hand is a citizen of Poland, on the other hand a citizen of another country and a child appears, his well-being. This is usually the case, of course it does not always have to be so, because it is a matter between Polish citizens, and it is obvious. We have decided as a resort of justice to make such a proposal to the High House, which affects a number of issues which are extremely important from the point of view of guarantees for Polish citizens, but above all the children's well-being in the background, because - and here I want to say it very strongly - not always what the Polish citizen says lies in the truth. It is not always that if a Polish citizen says that a child belongs to him for some reason, it means that he is right. We only look in terms of the child's welfare. It's just that. However, it is a fact that over the years the whole mechanism of helping the Polish citizen has not been refined. Often there was a situation where our citizens believed - because the facts were - that they had specific rights to the child and would win without any problem with the law, and then it turned out that these cases were extremely complicated. I've said that a few times. Recently, during the course of the current questions, I responded to the question made by your fellow Members about these very issues, why they are so difficult. I say, because there are criminal elements, civil elements and international elements. So it can be said that the Polish citizen, who defends himself in such a case, wants the child to remain with him, suddenly collids with the machine of defenders on the other hand, with a machine that he is unable to win with, because he will not win the rules. And that was also the reason for us to make appropriate changes to this regulation, which is very important. Of course, there was also a question about the role of the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. These are abductive cases that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child are concerned about, and so is the various institutions. But actually it was to take this initiative, because it's been going on in parliament for many years. For many years, we have wondered how to deal with this problem and how to avoid tragedy. I can say that these cases, as far as quantity is concerned, maybe there is not a very large number, but as far as specific cases are concerned, they are very difficult. Usually they are extremely delicate and these are cases where there are often dramas - dramas in families, dramas about children. The media is interested in these matters, they are very media, and really things that should be going on quickly, sometimes even within a few weeks - these are the rules - they take place for years. There is a fierce fight between parents about who has rights to a child, a fierce fight that takes place in different countries, before different courts, where there are different proceedings in the background, not only those conducted under the Hague Convention. This is very important. We touch four legal acts: the Code of Civil Procedure, the Police Act, the Law on Family Support and the System of Replacement Care and the Act on Opinional Teams of Experts. Today I want to say very clearly that we are creating something that is not in Poland, and this is a revolution in this area. And I am counting on it, and please all clubs and circles operating in the Polish Parliament, to approach it in an extremely responsible way, so that there is no politics in all of this, and that we are guided by the fact that there is a child's welfare and there is a problem that we have not been able to cope with for many years. What we represent is, in my opinion, a small revolution. We have checked the systems that operate in other countries, and we have tried to choose the best solutions that work in the best systems to put all of this into a single bill, a single draft, and present it to the High House. The first point that is relevant as regards the objective is to organise all the powers and responsibilities of the central authority, the Ministry of Justice. I would like to tell you that, until recently, the Ministry of Justice has dealt with these matters - this is unbelievable - two people. Then these people came. Remember how many Poles left our country. There are 800,000 in Germany alone. people who have only Polish citizenship and double - 1,5 Million. In the UK - almost 1 million. These are huge numbers. You could say there's a problem, because we don't know all the things, we don't need to know, because that's the system. If we get information, of course we react, we try, but until recently, as I said, two people did. Today, the department that has 17 people is dealing with this, but perhaps there will be a department, as is the case in other central bodies across Europe, where we deal with these issues, although it must be made clear: these matters can be dealt with in ministries in individual countries or in a body that is outside the ministry, and that is true too. This is the case in some countries, e.g. in our neighbour, Slovakia, as I recall, this is how it is solved. This is the first thing, which is the law concerning the Ministry of Justice. We'll know every step of the case. The second issue concerns the possibility for the Minister of Justice to exempt citizens from the costs in charge of applications. This matter was raised during the legislative process, when we created it during the discussions that we held on the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, on the Council of Ministers. How's this gonna work? It's a general rule. The Minister of Justice will decide whether or not a person can be exempted from these costs, taking into account different solutions, different elements, different circumstances. The third point is to simplify the forms of communication and proposals in order to ensure the speed of identification of cases. These things can't go on for years. Here the first and basic form is e-mail, a form that uses IT tools, and then only a traditional form. Speed is a very important issue. Deformity, speed of expert recognition. The point is that opinions in these cases should be issued much earlier than in other cases. This is very important. Another case is the mandate of the Minister of Justice to obtain information on the whereabouts of the child also through the Police. Here was the matter of the police, her involvement in all of this. It's about searching, it's about how. Does that mean the police can pick up the baby? No. We will explain if, of course, there are such questions that there are strict rules on how a child can be picked up. They must be strictly respected. Another issue concerns a certain institutionalisation in this area. With regard to the courts of first instance, these cases were dealt with by regional courts, they still deal with them, and in second instance, by district courts. It is three hundred and dozen courts that deal with cases that are extremely difficult. A few thousand judges. Now, state your role as judge to whom such a case is brought. It is to read the Hague Conventions, various, Brussels II bis regulation, read various international regulations. He's supposed to know things in a criminal or civil context. Those are problems. We don't think that was a good solution. Three hundred and dozen courts are not a good solution. We're a specialist judiciary. There will be 11 courts, not district courts, only district courts, one for each area of jurisdiction of the court of appeal. One at a time. As far as appeals are concerned, there have been 45 such district courts so far. We're introducing a rule that there's gonna be a single court of appeal. It will be a specially created department at the Court of Appeal in Warsaw. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That means we're creating a specialized judiciary. And I would like to say to you that we are one of the few countries of the European Union that has no specialised judiciary. There's no such court. It's been a big problem so far. We are, of course, walking here in line with the EU's solutions. It's a shame it hasn't been done in years. There's gonna be specialist law enforcement. What does that mean? This means that 30, maybe 40 people in Poland will deal with such cases, I mean judges, not a few thousand. What does that give us? It's simple, that's where the professionals will go, that's where the people who will be trained will go. I have already spoken to the director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, where, I hope, there will be training with the best lecturers, so that these people will be provided with the best possible knowledge to have information on how such matters should be resolved. 40 people, not a few thousand. This is important. In a court of appeal, the several-member department, that's also important, and not a lot of judges who deal with these kinds of cases. That's not all. There will be, ladies and gentlemen, an emergency appeal that will be served by the Attorney General. It's about the cassation complaint. There are situations, and that's an undeniable fact, when the ministry comes to us, cases where, at first glance, you can see that something is wrong. What can the Minister of Justice do in such a case? All he can do is ask for custody of the case, ask for some explanations. We get all kinds of explanations, ladies and gentlemen, which are sometimes amazing. It's not that I care about judges anymore, because there are great judges, that's what I think, it's obvious, but there are people who shouldn't take care of these things. There are people in this room who know all kinds of things - Mrs Arciszewska, Mrs Wypych, Mrs Chrobak - who have dealt with many such issues. You know exactly what happened in the cases, what the drama was. These people must be well trained. A few months ago, we introduced a rule, a solution, and here is a thank-you to the prosecution in turn, to the prosecutors of Święczkowski and Hernando, which means that in all such cases the prosecutor will be involved as a public-interest spokesperson. I want to thank the D.A.'s office very much when it comes to situations where, you can say, this public interest actually represented as this last resort, although there are various things that need to be remembered. So today there's going to be a cassation complaint, this extraordinary appeal. He's gonna have the attorney general's right to do that, but not just that. We meet the expectations of the ombudsman, who has been asking for this for years, and the ombudsman too. They will also have the right to file such a cassation complaint. Another case, which needs to be highlighted, is a matter concerning the surrender of children after the judgment at first instance. Unfortunately, this does not bring us pride as a state, that after a judgment at first instance a child can leave our country, be transported to another country, and then the matter becomes really more complicated. So we introduce the principle: there is no child leaving, there is no child giving up until the final settlement of the case - until there is such a decision, after which we can be sure who this child should be with. And this principle is also introduced in these regulations. Of course, we also highlight one thing that we have talked about many times during committee meetings. I would like to thank here the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad, the committee on petitions, the committee on justice. We talked about these things - it was difficult sometimes to talk, but good, constructive, and it was from this conversation that interesting things came about. I would like to tell you that we have analysed the situation concerning caring matters as well. This is only the first stage of reform, kidnapping matters, but there are still caring matters, there are many of them. It's about cases that occur abroad. Someone would say: What are you doing to help Polish citizens abroad? It's not that simple. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we can reform the Polish system and create a specialized judiciary - and I will sleep peacefully, with a clear conscience, because there will be 40 people perfectly equipped with knowledge, experienced etc., and each of you will be able to sleep peacefully, so it will be - but abroad the decisive is national law: German, British. That's where the problem begins. On the issue of Germany, the issue of the Jugendamts, because perhaps today there will be questions about it, they often appear during such discussions, I would like to say that I was in Germany, I spoke with my counterpart and it was a good discussion, very good one. We have made some demands on behalf of the Polish Government and I would like to inform you that soon, in October, a conference on mediation will be held as a result of cooperation with the German Ministry of Justice. I cordially invite you as Members to this conference. I invite you also... we can even arrange a meeting, because you often write to us, asking us to intervene in some matters, so we are able to lead to a special meeting to give you information about where we, as a central body, can intervene and where we are not allowed to do so. Although we must remember: we are not a court. Although we have special powers as a central authority, we are not a court. You have to remember that, too. Eventually, an independent independent court decides. However, such mediations will take place. I'm talking about the seminar, but mediation is extremely important. In many such cases a mediation instrument can be used, and it is not used unfortunately, although it is available in Polish law. We know what it's like, we all know. The question of listening to such a child - it is not used very often either. I don't have the statistics here on me, but we know from practice that this is not an extremely often used instrument, and it's a pity. In many cases, we would be sure that the child's welfare is indeed assured, we would know what the child wants, and how it is, because sometimes it is difficult to find out where the truth lies on the basis of circumstances. I want to tell you that as far as caring matters are concerned, we have only 361 new cases since the beginning of this year. As far as kidnapping cases are concerned, only from the beginning of this year we have 164 new cases to give up a child. 102 cases concern the release of a child from Poland, 62 cases for today relate to the release of a child from abroad. A total of 190 cases were reported in 2016 - 105 cases concerned the release of a child from Poland and 85 cases from abroad. Growth, ladies and gentlemen, today is 40%. year to year. People, you can say, trusted - trust that there's a chance to unscrew things, sometimes years ago. Of course, you can't just unscrew it, it's not such a simple thing, but we really lean as far as we can, on every case, although we are aware that sometimes, medialy, people present themselves in an extremely positive light, and when they look into documents, into files, then it turns out that it's completely different that there's something else that we can't talk about as representatives of the Ministry of Justice, because it's specific information about individual cases. I'll get back to the Jugendamt case. We have raised two issues, including the issue of placing children in Polish foster families, where they are spoken in Polish. This is an extremely important matter. This is the signal that has been coming out for years, we have also now received this information as the Ministry of Justice, that there are situations that, when caring proceedings take place, the child is unfortunately placed in a family where it is not spoken in Polish. This is not uncommon. At the same time, I would like to say strongly that it is not a question of depreciating, I don't know, someone who has Polish citizenship, we are not kind of stigmatized because we are Poles, but this is unfortunately the way it is done for all countries - for everyone, not just for Poland. But we are interested in the Polish citizen, we would like the child, if he has Polish citizenship, to go to a family in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where there is a preserved identity, where there are preserved cultural elements, language, often religion. We would like to see a case of child withdrawal in Europe at all, because why is there a directive that concerns refugees where, if we are dealing with a child, the person who could be a foster family is looking for related people, and in the case of European children, EU children, not only Polish ones, is not? That's not equality. This case is extremely important. The second issue we raised during our visit to Berlin is the question of the participation of Polish diplomats in all stages of the proceedings, also before Jugendamt. This is an important matter. It is simply a matter of making a Polish citizen feel more comfortable, more confident, when he has a Polish diplomat behind his back. Here I would like to thank our diplomats very much. There are institutions where our country's representatives are people of immense empathy, with whom we are really good at working together. I can quote words here. Whether it's Ambassador Przyłębski or even Consul Kowalski. I don't know if he wants me to say this, but I'm saying here, at this point, that it was the best Polish consul in the world last year. And you know why he was the best? I can't figure out everything about how it just works. For him the work lasts practically around the clock, passed on a lot of valuable information before our visit to Norway, because that's where we have a problem. with an institution called Barnevernet, a local government institution, just like with Jugendamt. There are diplomats. We are often asked about the issue of Great Britain. Since 1 January 2016, 409 custody cases have been registered in the Ministry of Justice, cross-border, but not all cases are registered because they do not have to be, and that we do not have information, we do not register. It is not true that thousands of children are being picked up in the UK, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would like to say very clearly: the British Central Authority, the Ministry of Justice, works very well with the Ministry of Justice in Poland. I would like such cooperation with the German Ministry of Justice, but above all the Ministry of Family, because they deal with these matters. I'd like the same cooperation. I hope we get to the same standard. If there is a caring issue, the information about the child is immediately addressed to the British Central Authority, then to the Polish Central Authority. We inform the court, the probation officer conducts environmental interviews, we are looking for a foster family for the child. More than 90% We're the ones who point to these people. We're giving you feedback. In 40-50% things have actually led to a situation in which the child is placed in the Polish family. This is not the case in all cases, because, of course, this court, based on all the material that is gathered in the case, decides whether the person we point out is a person who may be a foster family. Again, there are very different situations. Really, sometimes I know that they are also very media, but when you get into the details, it suddenly turns out that not everything is so black and white, but there were things when our citizens were hurt in different countries, we know that. I do not want to enrich my speech here today with concrete examples, but during my work in committee I am ready to present to you at least those matters that have ended and to tell you how all this is done in practice. To conclude, I would very much like to ask you to kindly accept this proposal. In my opinion, we can build a whole new judiciary in these cases, specialist judiciary, refer to global, really good standards and assess how it works after a certain period of time, and in the meantime, deal with issues relating to caring and maintenance matters. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister has touched everyone in a unique, special, very exhaustive way, and at the same time the most important, because it is such a sensitive issue, matters which concern the material aspects of the bill. I will allow myself, fully supporting this project on behalf of our club, to address the formal aspects, because it is equally important. The primary objective of the government's draft law on the execution of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements is to define the principles and procedures of the Polish central authority, Polish courts and other Polish authorities in matters covered by four acts of international and Community law. The acts in question are listed in Article. 1 project. This applies to, among others. the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions relating to the custody of a child and the Restoration of Child Care, which was drawn up in Luxembourg, the Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad, namely the Hague Convention, the Convention on Jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures to protect children. These conventions as international agreements form part of the national legal order and are directly applicable, which results inter alia. from the Polish Constitution. On the other hand, the Regulation is of general scope and directly binds the Member States of the European Union, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. Those acts shall specify the tasks of the central authorities of standards which may be applied directly without being supplemented by national rules. It should be noted, however, that the same acts also contain standards which regulate certain spheres of operation of central authorities in a general and non-specific manner, so that they can only be applied in conjunction with national standards. In matters of parental responsibility with a cross-border dimension, cooperation between the various authorities of the countries concerned is essential and is significantly impeded without any clarification of the specific rules. In many situations, the Polish central body operates on the basis of the Polish law applied by analogy, which was created in isolation from the acts mentioned, often many years before their creation, and subsequent amendments did not lead to the regulation of this issue. Using only the interpretation of the law in force now raises many problems, and this may raise doubts. on the validity of certain actions taken by the Polish Central Authority on the basis of these acts of law and does not encourage the broadcasting of matters quickly, despite their exceptional nature - they concern children. The proposed law seeks to regularise issues that are not regulated by law or are not sufficiently detailed. To some extent, the project also includes a way of dealing with the Polish Central Authority, leading to improvement of its work. The draft law notes that the Polish Central Authority designated for the purposes of the Article. 1 of the conventions and regulations will, of course, be the Minister of Justice. The period of 6 months adopted in the proposed act should be sufficient time to prepare the entities covered by this project to carry out the tasks assigned to them. So much for the formal aspect. What the Minister has said is clearly a substantive aspect which should translate into these formal matters, and from a legal point of view they are also essential. While we are aware of the need for legal changes in this area, the proposals presented in the government project are positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to improve the functioning in Poland of four international agreements, three conventions and regulations of the European Communities from 1980 to 2003 concerning a very important issue, namely the handling of applications for children kidnapped and held illegally abroad. This regulation does not apply to adoption cases, it does not apply to succession cases, it does not apply to paternity cases, but it concerns how it is transmitted, who can submit such applications, who cooperates with the competent authorities in other countries, what are the powers of the police, what are the powers of the courts in these cases, as they are to consider. The objectives set by this law are in line with those of these conventions and this regulation. Above all, there are a number of points that should speed up procedures for dealing with matters relating to children. It is extremely important that children who are kidnapped, illegally held, not under stress, are not without proper care, without proper care for a long time. The steps proposed here, i.e. the immediate action of the Minister of Justice, the six-week time limits for courts and other things that are designed to speed up the handling of such requests, with actions, deserve support. It seems very reasonable to concentrate these cases in only 11 courts, not in dozens of courts, as this could have been the case so far, and to appoint one court for appeals, as well as to introduce the possibility of a cassation action. The law also regulates the enforcement of foreign courts' decisions regarding the replacement of the custody in Poland, and establishes the so-called. the central authority - in Poland it will be the Minister of Justice, who will cooperate with the central authorities designated for these issues in other countries. There is also a new task for local authorities in the form of care. The additional powers will be granted to the police. At the request of the court, they will be able to investigate a kidnapped child hidden somewhere. Some things raise doubts, which I hope will be explained or discussed in the course of further work. Namely, one of the comments submitted concerned the conduct of an environmental interview by a court curator. Why can't they do that, environmental intelligence, social services? There is a problem with a foreign environmental interview. Will he meet foreign requirements? And the issue is quite important, because the point is that the child who has been deprived of care, let's say, in the UK, could go to his grandparents in Poland. Therefore, it must be, as I understand it, done an appropriate environmental interview in Poland, which would meet the conditions of the British court, which could give such care to grandparents in Poland, for example. Things like that and stuff like that... There are ambiguities, perhaps not everything is completely understandable, but I understand that these matters can be clarified more widely at committee meetings, and all these doubts which have been raised by the Ombudsman, by the Ombudsman, by GIODO, by the Chief Attorney General and which have not been recognised in the course of government work will be clarified to the end at committee meetings. It might seem that this is not as many cases as mentioned here, it is a total of about 200 cases, mostly the UK, about 1/3 of these cases, but these are extremely important cases, because in the end it is about children, speeding up these cases, their competent and correct resolution, according to the interests of the child. The Civic Platform is in favour of referring this bill to further committee work, for its subsequent improvement and adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you probably know, on 6 July 2016, on my initiative, a Parliamentary Team was set up as the highest objective of the child, which I chair. 2 months later, a conference was held on the subject of receiving children from Polish families. Consuls of the Republic of Poland were present at the conference, among others. Consul Kowalski, who was mentioned by the Minister. I was honored to meet him personally because he is indeed a consul who may be a role model for other consuls. In my social work both in the Sejm and before, before I became a Member, I often encountered the harm of Polish families, with the harm of those who could not defend themselves, who were counting on the Polish state, and did not receive this help. I was genuinely outraged that our state's organs failed the exam. They have repeatedly failed Polish families, in need. Irritable, dyspnoea and lack of empathy are the foundations of the sins of officials, curators, judges, and finally the state - politicians from the signs of the PO and PSL. Years of neglect, ignoring problems, the lack of action of the current opposition led, among others. to the fact that Polish children were kidnapped abroad, taken from citizens of the Republic of Poland living outside our homeland. It all happened in the majesty of the law. It was your ignorance and anesthetic that led to this, to the harm of children and Polish families. The lack of comprehensive regulation to standardise the application of international agreements and their reckless, unilateral implementation without creating rules of application tailored to the specifics of the Polish legal system caused pathology, led to the fact that the Polish citizen was left to himself in relation to the law of the European Union. The work of my team focused on the problems of Polish children and families, among others. a number of problems arising from the application of international agreements. On my initiative, many debates on issues of Polish families, adoption problems, foster care and protection of the interests of Polish children residing in Poland and abroad took place in the Sejm. At this point I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice, and in particular Minister Michałów Wójcik, with whom I am cooperating on matters concerning children, for taking up such an important challenge. As you can see, you can work beyond divisions. It does not matter what political option we are from, it is important that we can work together towards changes that will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Poland. We have seen regulations on the importance of the law governing the action of the authorities of the state and of the general courts on the basis of acts of international law, in particular the Hague Convention and the Luxembourg Convention, which are so important for the interests of our citizens. Finally, rules have been established relating to the scope of this European Luxembourg Convention on jurisdiction and jurisdiction of substantive law in such matters. We have an indication of the central authority, the Minister for Justice, to define the operation of this central authority, as important because of the different ways of regulating both in the various international agreements and in national law. On the basis of the Act, the fundamental dynamics of judgment in matters relating to children shall be restored. The courts will no longer be able to proceed in slow cases, and the delay will have to justify it. The draft shall comprehensively address issues related to the translation of applications and other documents from the proceedings, in particular any correspondence. It is also clear that the question of taking a search for the child and establishing the whereabouts of the child is also dealt with. In view of the speed of the procedure, the transfer of cases subject to the Hague Convention to district courts as first instance indicates that the legislator finally notes the need to speed up proceedings. A natural consequence is the question of secondary decisions by appeals courts. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen. This definition in practice will lead to cases being handled without undue delay, which has often taken place in regional courts. Finally, the law brings with it a fundamental change - the possibility of bringing an annulment to the Supreme Court. This will broaden the substantive procedural guarantees of the parties to the proceedings and, moreover, it will be in practice that the Supreme Court will shape in a uniform manner the caselaw in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the categories of proceedings. Let us hope that this will put an end to the wave of abductions of Polish children. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I recommend that the bill be referred to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska submitted her position to the club in writing. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the governmental draft law on the execution of certain activities of the central body in the field of legal trade in family matters under European Union law and international agreements, Parliamentary printing No. 1827. The aim of this project is to improve the protection of the child's well-being and to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of judicial decisions concerning his or her return abroad or of decisions refusing such return. It's about spending children abroad, for example. in situations where one of the parents lives in another country, and as a result of the conflict between parents to Poland, a request for the issue of children residing abroad in our country is made. Such cases shall be dealt with on the basis of the Hague Convention on the Abduction of Children Abroad. The resort of justice records about 100 such cases a year. They have so far been dealt with by regional courts, where judges have often met with such cases for the first time. Following changes in cases relating to the issue of children abroad, 11 specialized district courts from the largest cities are to be dealt with, while with appeals one court, the Court of Appeal in Warsaw, and this is undoubtedly, as the previous speakers indicated, a solution very right. Lawyer's coercion is also to be introduced. Where the parent cannot afford a lawyer, the representative shall be appointed by office. The next changes are the introduction of the possibility of an appeal before the Supreme Court. An important change is to introduce the principle that until the appeal hearing, the child will not be able to be delivered abroad. So far, decisions concerning the return of children have been executed at the time of their announcement at first instance, although the Hague Convention did not require this. This change too, Minister, deserves recognition. The project also sets out the modalities for obtaining data on the potential foster family and the rules for transferring children to foster care abroad as part of the revision of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on supporting the family and foster care system. The Advocate General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child shall be given the opportunity to bring a cassation action before the Supreme Court in cases of unlawful abduction or detention of a person under parental or guardianship. High Izbo! Perhaps there is not much of such cases against others or, as we often say, against the background of all cases in courts, but their number is increasing systematically and will probably increase due to the increasing migration of Poles. Moreover, they have a huge emotional load because they directly affect children and involve whole families. So far we have heard shocking stories, especially those concerning the behaviour of the German Jugendamt towards Polish children. In addition, such matters are considered to be difficult and complex in a consistent legal environment. All these conditions give rise to the statutory regulation of decisions on the return of children or decisions refusing such return. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work and I think that project promoters can count on our support for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. Today's draft law involves four acts of international law: the European Luxembourg Convention of 20 May 1980, the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980, the Hague Convention of 19 October 1996 and Council Regulation No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003. All these documents regulate the right to deal with cross-border child abductions and detentions in such a way as to limit the adverse effects of these events. However, as the applicant points out, these provisions are not sufficient. In order to enhance the protection of the state over its minors, improvements are needed. the effectiveness of the action taken on the basis of those acts. It is necessary to adopt a law that regulates the issues of the matter which have not yet been regulated or inadequately regulated and to harmonise the current law. In today's project, applicants propose a number of solutions to improve the effectiveness of protecting children's rights in cross-border proceedings. Most of them will have a positive impact on the speed of these proceedings and on the appropriate steps taken by the relevant authorities, such as. entrusting the recognition of cases concerning the unlawful abduction or detention of children to district courts, and entrusting the Appeal Court in Warsaw with the examination of appeals in these cases. Regulation concerning the enforcement of decisions on the withdrawal of a child, the right of the police to process the data of the persons concerned by the decision to take the child away, the changes affecting the improvement of the work of the curators and the introduction of the child in matters of the international law enforcement. These provisions, because of the delicate nature of the child and the difficulties it may have in re-establishing a relationship with a valid guardian after a long separation, are crucial for their well-being. I am pleased that the Polish state recognizes the great value of its youngest citizens to society, regardless of where they were born. Today's regulations prove that the Polish government wants to stand by them and defend their rights. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this initiative and supports the further process of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform, asks the question first. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few doubts here. Namely, one is that the application addressed to the Minister of Justice may, for various reasons, be dismissed, of course, if it does not meet the requirements or formal or substantive requirements. Then the appeal against this rejection of the application may be addressed again to the Minister of Justice. Wasn't there any other solution to this appeal? The second thing I've picked up here. Namely, these environmental interviews are done on behalf of a foreign court. Is the solution that you are proposing good enough? Isn't it kind of a weakness of this procedure, especially as regards the possibility of having this custody of the child by a family related in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Third thing. Are the funds for this project secured? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill deals with very important cases of child abduction and abduction, very young children who are deprived of parental or parental care. It's a tragedy especially for children, but also for parents. A bond that is decisive for the child's safety is broken. The speed of action here is fundamental. At this point in the legislation, I have a few questions. We'll talk details on the committee. My first question is this: How long have these matters been going on? I know a lot of specific things. How long after the implementation of this law can they be shortened? One more question. The Minister has already talked about this when he refers to the project. Namely, it is the concentration of cases in courts, in 11 district courts. The opinion raises this issue. I'm also asking if it's gonna affect the length of the trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u213	Thank you. Minister, taking children away from parents often takes place under any pretext, e.g. The mother will take the laptop away from her daughter. Her daughter is taken away, and after a few months or weeks, special services come along and take her son away, because she is supposedly not providing him with good upbringing conditions. In our press, specifically in our Journal, a very exciting article was published describing the story of a young woman from Norway, a young mother who was taken from her daughter and who later, in fear of taking her second child, fled to Poland. I would therefore like to ask what its situation is under the current Polish law and international law. Can she be safe here? I recommend to each of you the same article. Those are stories. It's just extraordinary, inhuman. I know that Consul Kowalski in Norway is doing a great job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I had a chance to find out. I also wanted to ask, Minister, how often there are cases that citizens of other countries are protecting themselves in Poland because of the reason we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u215	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Undoubtedly, matters arising from the Hague Convention concerning the unlawful abduction or detention of a child are a very important issue. It's a good thing this bill was in the Seym. There must be a strong fight against fraud in this area. However, I have doubts here about the fact that only 11 district courts with 45 and one appeal court have been entrusted with these cases. This was explained in the explanatory memorandum by specialization, concentration of availability of translators as well as professional representatives. Are these arguments sufficient? Whether you have carried out such investigations or whether the undoubted extension of the way to the court will, however, result in less availability [[♪ The bell ♪]] These courts in these very sensitive cases, aren't they? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u217	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is indeed a very important subject, and it also has such a reference, I would say, to provide appropriate means and conditions to ensure that these provisions are implemented effectively. The project assumes among others. the possibility for professional probation officers to interview the persons referred to in Article. 20, as well as the whereabouts and residence of the minor, but there are also a number of other possibilities for commissioning environmental interviews. Of course, it is in the explanatory memorandum that an assessment of the impact this may actually have, but the question arises whether the State provides for this type of new financing obligations. Wouldn't these new responsibilities make some of the responsibilities that have been done simply in a way, I would say, worse? So in other words, will this cause a reduction? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the quality of providing these services to citizens? Second thing. There are also new tasks for the police. The question is whether the calculations that you have shown in the explanatory memorandum are not very optimistic. Is there also funding provided there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Wójcik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u219	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for the questions, for the warm voices nice to the ears. Let me answer the questions that have been addressed. Mrs Masłowska asked about the case of a citizen of another country who came to our country. This is not a matter which falls within the scope of this law, as well as in matters of the Ministry of Justice. The question in this particular case is rather a question for the Foreign Ministry. Of course, I am ready to ask the Foreign Ministry for a possible answer on this matter if you wish to do so. As far as this particular subject is concerned, I would like to say that Norway has recently joined the Hague Convention last year, and this gives some scope for new opportunities in terms of Polish-Norwegian relations in relation to the kind of issues we are talking about. That's the first thing. Case number two. The answer to Mrs Czernow's question about how long such cases last. Well, they go on and on, sometimes years go on. It should last for weeks, and it lasts for years. Of course, we provide for certain deadlines in our resolution, on average these cases last about 2 years. This is important from the point of view of the child, and we know it very well, so we are primarily concerned with this in terms of the child's welfare, what is most important for the child, what is good for the child. And that's the job for the courts. As far as district courts are concerned, and as to whether this is going to prolong the proceedings, I don't think so. Right now, I think, at the level of the regional courts, I can understand those judges who get this case when they don't know which way to touch it. Well, that's the kind of fear that comes in front of this kind of thing, and it's natural and understandable. As I said, these are cases in a criminal, civil, international context, which is why, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is criticizing our law on the system of common courts, but there, among other things. There is, as I recall, a provision concerning coordinators in international matters, precisely in such cases as to help the judge to whom such a case goes - without deciding of course - to help in such cases, although we are now moving it to a level higher, so it will already be at the level of the district courts if the High House accepts our proposal. So, in my opinion, it won't prolong the procedure. With regard to Mr Pampuch's question, it concerned the issue of courts, how many countries have specialised courts. I'm gonna use the data I received from the department that's handling these cases. Only eight countries in the European Union do not have specialised courts - only eight countries in 28 - but we also need to look at which countries do not have one. They are usually countries that do not have so many inhabitants. Although Malta has one court of first and second instance, Estonia - four courts, Greece - 63 courts of first instance, 19 courts of second instance, Slovenia - 11 courts, Latvia - 34 courts of first instance, five courts of second instance. So in this context, let us remember that this is extremely important. Specialized judiciary is also a kind of experiment. That's an interesting thing. Let's see how this works out. I hope that it is good and that in time we will judge and say: it is indeed an idea. Mr Suchon's question about the issue of curators. Yeah, we're expecting training. We anticipate training, precisely as regards cross-border issues. Training must appear in these cases. I want to say that if we want to get these things right from start to finish, then training must be for the judges, and for the prosecutors, and for the defense attorneys, because that's also the problem when it comes to defenders. We are aware that in the coming weeks we will be attacked - I am convinced - by those who will claim that this is the wrong solution, but I will sleep peacefully if the best trained defenders deal with such matters. Curators will also be trained in this field. Mr Święcicki. It's also a matter of probation. The Member asks whether our solutions are compatible, I understand, with the rules that operate - as I remember and understand correctly - whether we are creating a novel. This is based on the Code of Administrative Procedure. I would like to say that I understand what this is about. For cooperation with curators who come from other countries. [[Ours on their behalf.]] Or ours on their behalf. Who's giving the job? Well, you have to look, court, ladies and gentlemen, right? So there are curators coming to us who operate, coming at the request of another authority, another court - or court, I don't know, but the authority - whether people come from other countries and conduct environmental interviews. That's a problem, I'm not hiding it. I'm not hiding that this is a problem. We need to work together and we want to work together with those who come and conduct environmental interviews. If it's for the child's good, okay, it's just a matter of regulation and legal legitimacy. This is very important. I would like to say that the head of the department sitting here, who is dealing with these issues, has made a proposal at one of the meetings in the European Commission to standardise forms for environmental interviews and the committee will be working on these forms. The point is to standardize things that concern parental abduction and custody. This is also an appeal at the end to our European politicians in the European Parliament, in the Commission. There's a problem with standardizing certain issues related to caring matters, really. If the European Commission or the European Parliament insists on standardising approaches to certain issues, there will not be any problems that we face in some countries of the European Union. Really, ladies and gentlemen. This could be done in the case of the Hague Convention which has been adopted by the States, not all, but some have accepted. What is working in the European Union, Brussels II bis... I would also like to see the standardization of certain behaviours when it comes to caring matters, then there will be fewer problems, I assure you. This is already a more political topic, but this is the signal I give from the Polish parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position in the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in the field of family legal trade under European Union law and international agreements, print No 1827. The purpose of this law is to define the powers and responsibilities of the Polish Central Authority in matters of a very sensitive nature, covered by international documents, i.e.: the 1980 European Convention of Luxembourg, the 1980 Hague Convention, the 1996 Hague Convention and Council Regulation No 2201/2003. They are all dealt with at international and EU level and relate to a set of rules governing the issuing, recognition and enforcement of decisions taken in international matters of child abduction or detention. It is a necessary regulation, which was clearly lacking in the Polish legal system. Poland, together with many other European countries, creates an international system of fighting for the welfare of children. It would seem that the signing of conventions, which thus become Polish law, is sufficient. However, this is not the case. There is always a need to adapt Polish rules, procedures to the requirements of a given convention. And so it is in this case. For many years Poland has fulfilled its international obligations resulting, among others. from the Hague Convention. However, we know that everything could look better, function more efficiently, and thus save the trauma and bad experiences of hundreds of children who each year become victims of immature adults. This could be the case if, like other countries, we had already defined the central authority and adapted the Polish law, thus giving space and support to international law. This project, establishing binding procedures and adapting inter alia. Civil proceedings to conventional requirements are the way in the right direction. The Act lays down in a definitive manner that the Polish central authority coordinating the activities of the Convention is the Minister of Justice. The procedure for dealing with matters dealt with by the central authority is also regulated, although to a narrow extent. The length of proceedings is reduced, the number of judges is increasing in the general courts to deal with these cases. Additional financial resources are foreseen. The planned changes in Polish k.p.c. provide for a hearing of the 1980 Hague Convention cases concerning the unlawful abduction or detention of a child to elected district courts and one appeal court, which will allow the specialisation of judges and the concentration of the availability of translators and professional representatives. Similar solutions can be observed in other countries Parties to the Hague Convention. The Act obliges many state bodies, including the Minister of Justice, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the General Courts, the Police, the curators, or the local authorities. Most of them took part in the consultation and opinion of the bill. Not all comments were accepted. Perhaps over some it is worth to bend over in the course of further work. It would be good practice to create further such laws. Many conventions and provisions of EU law are waiting for some form of implementation. What about the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Poland on 6 September 2012? Although it was signed by your government on 20 March 2007, it has not been properly implemented to date. For this, a little good will is enough, and thousands of people with disabilities would have greater comfort in life. The State is obliged to take care of its citizens and to create decent living conditions for them, especially those vulnerable, children, people excluded due to age, disability or derogatory living conditions. As many examples show, it is not the art of creating a good law or signing it, it is important to be able to implement it and respect it - every day, in the smallest situations. May the law discussed today be the best example of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u222	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central body in the field of family legal trade under European Union law and international agreements, contained in print No 1827, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Act on Liability for Violation of Public Finance Discipline (Prints No. 1791 and 1844). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Health and Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Act on Liability for Violation of Public Finance Discipline, Prints 1791 and 1844. The project has four main objectives. The first is the creation of a legal framework for pilot schemes to check planned new systemic arrangements for the organisation, implementation or financing of health care services. There has been no statutory regulation so far and therefore testing new ways of organising healthcare has been difficult. Pilot programmes will allow for derogations from existing rules and conditions for the provision of healthcare services in order to verify that the planned changes in the organisation, implementation and financing of healthcare services will contribute to improving the situation of patients and will be effective from the point of view of the health system. To this end, the Act defines the concept of a pilot scheme as a team of health care activities aimed at testing the implementation of new arrangements for the organisation, implementation or financing of healthcare services and identifies what will define the scope of such a programme. The Minister for Health and the President of the National Health Fund has been authorised to draw up and establish a pilot programme by Regulation and Order respectively. The Minister responsible for Health will be empowered to supervise the pilot programmes established by the Minister for Health and Control, while the National Health Fund will be competent to implement, finance, monitor and evaluate pilot programmes. The possibility of financing pilot programmes from the State budget is also introduced, from the part of which the Minister responsible for Health is the responsibility. Monitoring their effectiveness and evaluation are essential for the effectiveness of pilot programmes. To this end, the pilot programme will need to identify indicators for the implementation of the pilot programme, how to measure implementation indicators and how to assess the results of the pilot programme, in order to assess what possible changes should be made to the organisation of the medicinal processes or the way in which the funding is financed. The second objective of the draft law is to simplify and clarify the procedure for the development of the health policy programme and to ensure standardisation of the actions undertaken. According to the proposed solutions, the draft health policy programme should be developed not only on the basis of data derived from health needs maps but also on the basis of epidemiological data available. At the same time, the project introduces new solutions to develop a health policy programme on the basis of a recommendation from the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification issued for a given disease or a given health problem, which has been prepared on the basis of scientific evidence. The draft provides that the President of the Agency will issue opinions only for draft health policy programmes for which appropriate recommendations have not been published. Recommendations will be drawn up after prior verification of the Agency's assumptions of the draft health policy programmes on the basis of which the Agency will prepare a report on the recommended medical technologies, the actions carried out under the health policy programmes and the conditions for implementing those programmes concerning the disease concerned or the health problem concerned. The Transparency Council will then issue opinions on the basis of the Agency's report. Recommendations will be published in the health policy repository, which will be made available in the Agency's Public Information Bulletin and the Agency's website. The draft law sets out the content of the recommendation. From the date of publication of the recommendation of the President of the Agency, the body drawing up the draft health policy programme will be required to take into account the recommendations contained therein in the draft programme. In view of the need to ensure uniform standards for the creation and monitoring of the results of the health policy programme, which has been completed, the draft provides for the implementation of uniform programme models and the final report on the implementation of the programme. It has been established that there will be no need for the Agency to address draft health policy programmes, which are the continuation of programmes that have already been positively assessed. This will apply to the unchanged health policy programme implemented in the previous period for which the Agency's President has given a positive or conditional positive opinion and health policy programmes already implemented but updated where their objectives are not changed. It was introduced as a condition for the start of the implementation, implementation and financing of the health policy programme to obtain a positive or conditional positive opinion of the President of the Agency or to send a statement by the body drawing up the draft programme on its compliance with the recommendation of the President of the Agency. The negative opinion of the President of the Agency on the draft health policy programme will therefore not be able to implement, implement and finance such a health policy programme. Another important change in relation to the current legal situation is the introduction of a solution giving the entity that has developed, implemented, implemented and financed the health policy programme, the possibility of suspending in whole or in part the implementation and financing of the programme in the event of a lack of funding or of reducing the financial resources for its implementation. Where the implementation of the programme is not resumed for a period of 2 years, it shall be deemed to have been completed and the entity implementing the programme shall be required to submit, on the basis of general principles, a final report on the implementation of the programme. The entity implementing and financing the health policy programme will be required to complete its implementation in the event of circumstances indicating that it is not intended to continue to be implemented. This may be the case, for example. in the event of a change in the recommendation of the President of the Agency or the revision of the scientific guidelines for the intervention concerned or the emergence of new scientific reports on the disease or the health problem concerned, as well as in the event of an earlier achievement of the programme's objectives. The next objective of the draft law is to enable the Minister responsible for health access to personal data contained in the electronic health programme monitoring system, currently under the name of the Prevention Monitoring IT System, and to amend the procedure for selecting a health policy programme implemented by the Minister responsible for Health. The possibility for the National Health Fund to collect and process data obtained from the implementation of health programmes and to monitor their quality is clarified. It shall be possible for the Minister responsible for Health to entrust the implementation of the health policy programme without the need to conduct a competition for tenders, which shall be acceptable in situations relating to the inability to conduct a competition for tenders within the prescribed time limit and in the case of a limited number of potential developers. The National Health Fund will be able to provide funding for health policy programmes implemented by local government units for the provision of health benefits as defined in the lists of guaranteed benefits and not, as currently, for the financing of non-guaranteeed benefits programmes. Finally, the fourth objective of the Act is to abolish the restriction on access to treatment for groups of patients suffering from disorders burdened with a negative social assessment, guaranteed benefits in addiction treatment facilities - family members and people close to addicts, pathological gamblers or persons with other disorders of habits and urges. A total of 13 amendments were tabled by two committees, the Health Commission and the Public Finance Commission yesterday during the procedure for the bill and were all accepted. The entire draft law was given a positive opinion by a majority and the committees recommend that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The intention to submit a government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on liability for breaching public finance discipline was to date the lack of a legal basis for the development, implementation and financing of pilot programmes, and the lack of a legal basis for coordination, monitoring the quality and effectiveness of these health programmes and multi-annual programmes. The lack of procedures in this regard, but also of interpretation doubts, which have affected the existing provisions, require a revision of this law in order to improve the effectiveness of health protection measures. Since I have very limited time, and the previous speaker presented the nature of this project in quite detail, I would just like to draw attention to these issues or highlight those issues which are kind of re-introduction into Polish law. This is the definition of a pilot programme, the designation of the Minister responsible for Health as an entity responsible for the development of a pilot programme, and at the same time the designation of the National Health Fund as the entity competent for the implementation, financing and monitoring of pilot programmes. In addition, the Minister of Health shall indicate precisely in accordance with the provisions of this project the objective, duration, scope, type of healthcare provision which the pilot programme covers. It is also worth noting that there is no regulation under which the National Health Fund's financial plan from 2017 included costs of health promotion and prevention of diseases of 1,5%. the cost of health care services. As a result of the amendment of the Article. 48d paragraph. 1 The National Health Fund will be able to provide funding for health policy programmes implemented by local government units for the provision of health benefits set out in the list of guaranteed benefits and not, as is currently the content of this provision, for the financing of non-guaranteeed benefits programmes. It is worth noting that the proposed law envisages simplifying the procedure for the development of a health policy programme by introducing the possibility of creating a health policy programme on the basis of harmonised documents published by the Health Technology Assessment Agency. Allowing the Minister responsible for health access to personal data contained in the electronic programme monitoring system will allow for control the results of the programme, as well as the pursuit of educational and information activities in the implementation of the programmes. It shall also be inserted in accordance with the proposed wording of the Article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Laws, the provision that referral from a doctor will not be required in relation to treatment of addictions, i.e. it will not be required from persons applying for addiction or co-dependent persons. This includes all groups of patients using the same route of administration. benefits. I would like to point out that in the 2015 audit carried out by the National Health Fund, the National Health Fund clearly stressed that the effectiveness of health programmes at the level of local self-government units is reduced by the fact, among others. because there are no pilot programs. Let us hope, therefore, that this solution will also contribute to better outcomes, such as are expected, in terms of health protection and action in this area of local government units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u226	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform club with regard to the draft Health Benefits Act, print no. 1791. Our position is clear. We request that this project be rejected in its entirety at the time of the second reading. That's why I'm here. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is one big scandal. First of all, actually yesterday we started working on the project in good faith, because we think that the entries that appear are needed for piloting, and there is no doubt about that. These are indeed new rules that will facilitate the introduction of environmental centres, for example, for which a psychiatric environment has been waiting for 2 years. Unfortunately, it turned out that this law has two areas, I can't say the second bottom. It turned out that in the latter area, in addition to piloting, but also the fight against addiction or the introduction of epidemiological studies, you are proposing a new solution for health programmes. And here the fight is primarily with programmes that are implemented by local governments and which are not currently financed by the budget or by the National Health Fund. Among other things, it is about in vitro, but not only, because such health programs of municipalities or local governments have absolutely tried and continued to implement them, such as vaccine programs connected with, for example. with the implantation of children, where such vaccinations were not carried out as part of mandatory calendars. Therefore, there is absolutely no agreement for the local government not to decide on the implementation of the health programme, especially since not only do you prohibit and do not allow such programmes from the National Health Fund to be financed, but also, even if the local government has its own resources and wants to implement a given health programme because of the population, you prevent it by threatening the local authorities by violating the discipline of public finances. In our view, this is an absolute scandal. Because, of course, if the Minister has his strategic programmes, for example in the National Health Programme, let him really implement them in accordance with the guidelines. But if local governments have resources and needs, and have the opportunity to implement health programs, we do not understand why they cannot do this. Here the rapporteur of this project said that health programmes would be simplified. Yes, they will be simplified, sir, because they will simply be eliminated, they will not be. So if we are talking about simplification in this sense, it is. We can't agree to this because you own NGOs, you own all the promotional associations that are fighting for patient rights and access to all kinds of benefits. At the moment, you're limiting the funding by the National Health Fund, the funding of these programs by local governments. And we absolutely do not agree that the ideology of a minister who disagrees with the progress of medicine and has his vision of child growth through naprotechnology... We absolutely disagree with this approach, and that is why we are making this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u228	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the government bill, prints no. 1791 and 1844. As before, the whole House was rather speaking with one voice, so there will not be such a single voice here. When I read this project and later the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau, my first suspicion raised urgency. As I see the emergency mode of the project from the Ministry of Health, I'm running a red light like this. [[Applause]] And I'm looking for what's urgent about it. And that is what the Platform Member said, is that there is a second bottom in this whole bill. I don't know what's bothering you with programs that are presented by local governments, programs that have been worked out over the years to some extent, that you just want to eliminate them. Even the Sejm Analysis Office noted this and made it clear in its opinion that it is controversial to withdraw from the possibility for NFZ to co-finance local health policy programmes covering the benefits not guaranteed and the statutory exemption of the National Health Fund from the allocation of at least 1.5% the cost of health care services for the promotion and prevention of diseases. The Sejm Analysis Office is not biased, so in my opinion it is an objective opinion and I fully agree with it. Because if we consider, for example, today's Seym meeting of one of the teams that does enough, you could say, a social disease, which is diabetes, if we get a guide for local governments on developing health policy programmes in the field of diabetes, and in the annex there are also a number of other programs that the local authorities are doing, what does it bother you? I understand that there are isolated cases in Poland that local government policy on prevention raises concerns. Same in the city I come from, in Kalisz I had one such self-government project. I will not mention it so as not to arouse the joy of the hall, but on the basis of one mistake I will not build a construction for the whole of Poland, because sometimes something unlucky can happen to someone and in this case it is impossible to learn from it for all local authorities throughout Poland, because I am convinced that most local governments are conducting a good policy in this field and that these local authorities cannot be deprived of the ability to act. Unfortunately, once again you can see - and I am sorry to say this to the Minister of Health - that the Minister has his ideology, his worldview, which he wants to impose on all Poles. I will say once again the sentence I said earlier, about people who listen to music. If someone loves Pink Floyd music, it does not mean that such music is to be listened to by the whole of Poland. That's what freedom of people is, freedom of choice. If someone is taking an in vitro treatment, which is the way they conceive a child, and I know people who have children conceived in this way, and I would insult them by voting for this bill... I have friends who have children conceived in vitro, and I never - I emphasize - will never vote against this type of medical procedure because I see the happiness of these people. I call on the Ministry of Health to take off their blindfolds and look at the whole society wide, that we're not all the same, we're different, but there's beauty in this variety. If they were all the same, the world would be bloody boring, and you want to do it: put everyone in one box so that we could be the same. Here, of course, I have not all the attention to law and justice, but simply to the policy of one of the key ministers. This is my very specific attention to a particular person. Let's not create ideology because there are good records in this project, and because of these ideological inputs We cannot support this bill. This is once again the worst thing you've ever done. There are good records, because I won't argue with records that allow addicts to go without referral, but we can't vote for this project because you want to throw ideology into medicine. We'll never agree to an ideology in health care. It's supposed to be more or less religious than anything else. Health protection is indisputable and Kukiz15 will certainly not support this project. I stress: the club has freedom, but I will encourage my colleagues to vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and the Act on liability for violation of public finance discipline is a necessary project. First of all, I would like to thank the PiS that you decided to submit it in the form of a government project, not a parliamentary project, which allowed for a public consultation. But even so, you have been able to submit a project that is subject to corruption, collusion and partying. The overdeveloped bureaucracy associated with health programs raises doubts. It will take far too much money to be spent on health-promoting measures. Instead, you want to use them for paperwork, give them the opportunity to get a few more zlotys out of public funds for their people. Furthermore, we believe that the indication of the possibility of using undefined experts increases the vulnerability of the decision-making process to industry lobbying. I am referring to the lack of knowledge of the professional experience of a potential expert. Proposed in Article. Article 48a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 8 The restriction on the compatibility of the field of specialist medicine relevant to the specification of a particular disease or specific health problem to experts only, in addition to the prior reservation regarding lobbying, we believe, extends and impedes the procedure for creating opinions and reports. It is also another chance to jump into public money, but above all it carries a huge risk of lobbyists manipulating very real health problems for citizens. I'm talking about smog, for example. However, the main modern objection to the project concerns the proposed wording of the article. 48b. 1 providing that the programme developer can be selected by entrusting him with the implementation of the programme and not by means of a competition. We believe, like the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Central Anti-corruption Office, that this is more than questionable from the point of view of the principles of free market and free competition. The proposed regulation allows the non-competition choice of the health programme implementer, is clearly opaque, non-categorical to society and not objective in terms of selection criteria, because the draft law does not provide for such criteria at all. We do not know on the basis of which conditions it will be decided to choose the procedure, whether it will be a competition for tenders or to entrust e.g. to a friend of the Minister's task of implementing the programme. I was unable to conclude from the proposed wording of this provision in which cases the non-competition choice of the developer would take place. The modern view is that this record is unacceptable due to its corrupt nature. It allows the market to be manipulated, constitutes a barrier to new entrants, but, most importantly, puts social confidence in the chosen entity into question and can negatively affect the quality of the benefits received by patients. I consider the proposals for solutions to my problems to be insufficient. These problems overshadow the beneficial and necessary solutions. The draft law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Act on liability for breaching the discipline of public finances is an attempt to create another opportunity for public funds to be drawn up by party legal and judicial apparatus. In our opinion, it poses a real threat to the emergence of further companies like Solvere and will enable the Minister responsible for health to have access to the EU funds that have so far been in the local government. The modern law therefore does not support this draft law and also requests that it be rejected at second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law, these are prints Nos 1791 and 1844. At first glance, this government bill seems to be a good project for the development of health policy programmes. However, following an analysis of both the legislative process itself and the detailed provisions of the project, it turns out that the government is smuggling solutions that are not eligible for approval with this project. At the beginning of the public consultation, the creation of this new law by the government was shortened. Despite this, many comments and reservations have been received, but unfortunately only some of them have been taken into account. The first remark is that suddenly imposed without a deeper justification of urgency. It is very serious and unacceptable in my view that a first reading of this important and quite extensive project is carried out at the meetings of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Public Finance yesterday, and already today is the second reading and... [[Vote.]] ...probably vote as soon as possible. The project contains several proposals for solutions that need to be assessed positively. Such solutions include: rules on the conduct of pilot programmes where the Minister for Health will be required to develop such a programme, i.e. to define the purpose, duration and scope, the terms and conditions of its financing and the procedures for selecting the programme's implementer. The project introduces harmonised documents related to the development of a health prevention programme, which will be published by the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification. These are solutions that should simplify and speed up the implementation of the health policy agenda. The project increases the availability of personal data contained in the electronic monitoring system. A positive aspect of the project is also not requiring the referral of a health insurance doctor in the field of addiction treatment. This will apply to whole groups of patients suffering from disorders with guaranteed benefits in addiction treatment facilities as well as to family members. The fact that the National Health Fund's financial plan was intended to include health promotion and disease prevention costs of less than 1.5% is doubtful. the cost of health care services, but the government resigns from this provision. It is unacceptable to amend the Article. 48d paragraph. 1 the Act on Benefits, as the NFZ will finance health policy programmes implemented by local government units exclusively in the area of guaranteed benefits. Thus, the in vitro programme will not be a grant co-financed by the NFZ, and will even be impossible to conduct, because if that is not enough, the project imposes an obligation to obtain a positive or conditionally positive opinion from the President of the Agency on the development of a given programme. Art. 2 of the draft introduces a provision in the law on liability for breaching the discipline of public finances which provides for sanctions if there is a financing of a health policy programme for which the President of the Agency has issued a negative opinion or for which the opinion of the President of the Agency has not been obtained contrary to the existing obligation. This draft law, by reducing resources for prevention, by reducing local governments in the implementation of programmes which the local government considers necessary and justified, confirms the opinion and demonstrates that the governing authorities know everything best - that is the general principle that lasts for 2 years in this parliament in the projects submitted by the government - and that it is best to process questionable projects as soon as possible. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party cannot support such a bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u234	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Act on Liability for Violation of Public Finance Discipline. The Act simplifies and clarifies procedures for the development of a health policy programme and, most importantly, allows for the creation of a draft health policy programme not only based on the so-called "health policy programme." maps of social needs, but also on the basis of available epidemiological data. An important novelty enshrined in the Act is that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification will issue opinions only on draft health policy programmes for which no appropriate recommendations have been published. The amended act gives a real chance to shorten the waiting for a health program, because the modifications are aimed at, among others. developing a legal framework for pilot programmes and simplifying the procedure for developing a health policy programme. In this draft law, a very important change is, in my opinion, a provision that takes into account my efforts and the demands of the environment of families of addicts and therapists. This applies to photos of family members who are addicted to the obligation to receive referrals to therapy. With these changes, co-dependents will finally have the same rights to treatment as addicts. They will not have to be directed from the first contact doctor to continue the shameful treatment of social dependence. The facilitated access to therapy in accordance with the Act will be available to those who are associated with an addict and are unrelated, living and managing together, as well as to those whose mental state arose as a result of having an emotional relationship with an addict. This is a milestone in the treatment of addiction, because in the existing system, a codependent had to face not only the embarrassment but also the difficulty of finding professional help in the early stages of development of the disorder. I am convinced that with the entry into force of this law, many people will really improve their daily lives. The procedated bill may not be perfect, but it allows for better treatment options for patients. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Anyone else want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform, is the first to speak. One minute to ask a question. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a very specific question on behalf of young families seeking offspring. Will the programme, the health policy programmes implemented by local government units with their own resources and relating to in vitro, in the light of these new rules not be considered as a violation of the discipline of public finances? I would like to stress that the requirement for a medical technology agency to accept the programme will not be necessary, because the effectiveness of this treatment method is widely known and recognised - that is more than 8 000. children born by in vitro method. I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also have a question in the light of these limitations for local government units that they can only implement programmes where the President of the Health Technology Assessment Agency agrees. That's why I wanted to ask. Question one, this is where my friend got ahead of me. What about the implementation of these in vitro programmes by some local authorities? What's gonna happen with, for example? a vaccination programme for girls of a certain age as a protective treatment against cervical cancer? Such a program is implemented in Lublin. Hence the question: Will the self-governments running such programmes be responsible, that is, will they be punished, for violating the discipline of public finances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! [[Madam.]] Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Reporter, among many people, even here in the Sejm, there are people whose children, whose families have friends, who have children in vitro. Why do you want to deprive these people of having children? After all, every time and very often you talk about how important a family is. Then why? Give me at least one reason why you want to deprive this family of the chance to grow into children. Please give me a reason today and an answer for all those who want to have their own children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u242	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u243	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! This project is crazy. Despite some good records, he actually introduces a religious state through the back door - a religious state that tells local governments to fund an in vitro program, a program that really gave hundreds of families, if not thousands, happiness, gave people children. Those kids are growing. They're just like us, really. These people love, these people smile, these people live in Poland. It's been decades since this procedure has been fantastic in the world, and you're going back to the Middle Ages. How can you punish me for something like that? Tell me why you created such a project. Aren't you ashamed? You guys really aren't ashamed? This is a religious state. This is something that we as Members of our lives should not agree to. Shame, ladies and gentlemen, shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I don't really have any questions for you, because what's there to ask the Minister of Health who says he wouldn't give the pill the day after the girl was raped? Probably only in Poland is it possible that the Minister of Health, Marshal of the Senate, doctors, speaks with these words. Shame. I speak from this place to the inhabitants of Poznań, Gdansk, Sosnowiec, Łódź and those other cities where the presidents introduced the program in vitro. [[In Warsaw, too.]] This government is taking this program away from you. They picked him up on a national scale, now they're going for local governments. I am also talking to residents of all other towns and cities in Poland. The first day that this crew that hates women and fears women... [[That's bullshit.]] He'll go, we'll restore him in vitro. I say this to all Poles and Poles. He'll be back in vitro on the first day. And we will restore normality, [[Applause]] such a normality in which no one will look into [[♪ The bell ♪]] your bedrooms, your maternity homes and your homes. You will live as you wish, because the government is not from restricting freedom. The government is from creating a safe state and freedom within the limits of another man's freedom, not your sick ideology. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u247	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Very often from this tribune there is a return of total opposition, but not previously as today two laws preceding this law were adopted by all clubs with approval - and it was also government projects. On the other hand, this project is not only that you don't like women, you don't like children. You're totally unfamiliar with the local government. You say here that no medical procedures, which are not guaranteed benefits, cannot be financed by the local government. But the guaranteed benefits are not financed by the local government. This country is obliged to finance these benefits through the NFZ, not by local authorities. You are insulting the local government, because the local government, in many medical procedures, is working for its citizens, solving these problems that you are unable to solve as a state health service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those problems you're not dealing with as a PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the applicants: Why do you not like Poles so much? Mr applicant, why do you not like Poles? Why do you want to take their health away from them? Why are you back in the role of an egg that's trying to be smarter than a chicken? You're trying to be smarter than local governments, and it's the local authorities who know exactly what kind of medical procedures -- above-standard or standard -- but to a greater extent -- they need residents where these local governments are. Why are you trying to be like an egg that's smarter than a chicken? It's the local authorities who know what the locals want. You guys are building us a Taliban here. You are trying to write such ideological conditions in the bill and thus create the life of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, we will change that. We'll make a country where a man lives better, actually better, such a country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In which man makes his own decisions. Politicians, especially PiS, should not decide for Poles. You have no moral right to this. We're gonna change that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u251	We will give Poland to Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PiS cheated, cheated, and will cheat. Best example: this bill. In any law that sometimes has good records, you put things that automatically create a situation in which we cannot support it. You're trying to put some very strange records in the back door that are clear. After examining this law, we have made it clear to ourselves what it is intended to do: indeed, the introduction of a ban on in vitro financing by local governments. And I noticed there was a rule. What's more stupid are these outbursts, the more government officials sit in government benches. [[Applause]] Come here, look us in the eye and tell us what it's meant to do. Essential question: If this law falls, will you try otherwise to prevent in vitro funding by local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question to you: Who was really responsible for the fact that you introduced elements of the RIO law into the Health Benefits Act vetoed by the president? That's one question. Next question. In fact, I would like to know whether the in vitro law and the law - not the law, I apologize - the in vitro programme and the programme concerning e.g. vaccination of girls against papilloma will find their place or will not find their place in the continuation. And the third question. This is where the information came in that you take down 1.5%. from the National Health Fund. In that case, will this money be replaced by another source of funding, e.g. From the Ministry of Finance? How will this be financed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u256	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Will it be possible to carry out two programmes after the introduction of this project: a programme to prevent civilizational diseases in terms of overweight, obesity and diabetes among the inhabitants of Opole voivodship and a programme to prevent the development of civilization diseases in children and schoolchildren implemented by the municipality of Sosnowiec? In conclusion, I would like to ask whether these programmes can be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u259	I would ask Minister Radziwiłł, but he is not present during the process at the express rate of this law, so I will ask in general: How can you not be ashamed to ban the in vitro financing of the procedure by local authorities? In an innocent-sounding art. 2 of your bill is clearly visible, as Minister Radziwiłł, the country's chief ideologist, crosses the path back to the Middle Ages, increases his competences and takes tasks away from local governments. As a fierce opponent in vitro and public funding of the programme, it imposes its ideology, increasing its competence. Why don't you listen to the citizens? It's over 70%. Poles are in favour of in vitro. Why is Minister Radziwił spreading ideology instead of using the 21st century's spoils and using them? Why do you harm people for whom in vitro is the only support in the pursuit of childhood and for whom in vitro funding evens up the chances of accessing expensive but proven medical procedures? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u260	Thank you very much, Member. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Zbigniew the King to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a good law covering three areas. One area is pilot programmes, the other area is health policy programmes, the third area, relatively small, but nevertheless relevant from the perspective of those who benefit from these benefits concerns addictions. These three areas are covered by this law. Public information is part of health policy programmes - we just want a little more information... [[Voice from the hall: Public finances, not information.]] Public finances - about this in a moment, because yet these three areas of the bill come out, so to speak, to plan one. How did the urgency of proceding arise? It comes from two aspects. The first is pilot programmes. Pilots in the field of psychiatric care and in the field of POZ, which are currently being processed in the Ministry, are expected by many people, especially in the field of psychiatric care. Therefore, in order to continue to process certain solutions, we need a statutory basis as soon as possible. The second element of urgency concerns addiction. As indicated here, an addict without referral will receive specific benefits, but only if the addiction is identified. Therefore, this first contact is extremely difficult for such a person. And another thing about addiction -- it's about co-dependents. Here, in fact, psychiatric, psychological, psychotherapeutic care is required and is also provided without referral. That's where the urgency came from. Third area, health policy programmes. It wasn't until yesterday that I found out that this is where we're dealing with an in vitro case. No one at the stage of this bill's process as if they hadn't considered this particular element. I wanted to tell you that... [[It was an in-depth analysis of this document.]] Well, not really. This is a bill that I have the privilege of proceding, working on it for months, and therefore it is as I say, because I know. On information on health policy programmes. Here I would like to say to you that I am a little surprised that most of the speakers have not realised that the president of the agency has been consulting local government programmes since 2009. [[Voice from the room: We know that.]] I'm still thinking about it, but there's nothing different about that opinion here. Why was it then mandatory to give an opinion on these programmes? Since most of these programmes have been implemented in a way that differs from reliable scientific evidence. That's where the necessity came from, or, say, the will to do it. In the area of health policy programmes, because we leave pilots and addictions, the financial responsibility that has been indicated here also have public institutions, for example. Ministries which also implement health programmes and must also be judged by the President of the Agency. The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification is currently an institution that evaluates in the area of HTA, i.e. health technology assessment, all medicines and all procedures that are relevant to health programmes. In a similar way, it also assesses the benefits recorded in the basket, i.e. those benefits which have credibility in terms of literature, research and all other elements. That's what the agency's rated for. The Agency, the President of the Agency, issues a recommendation, in accordance with this draft law also conditionally, when, for example, a specific population is undefined when there is no legal basis for this project of a local government programme. There is no blockage of these programs at any point if they go through a procedure that is also available to all those who wish to take advantage of such recommendations. There's no blockage on any program. This bill isn't about blocking anything. This law shows how to prepare a health policy programme in the municipality, districts, voivodships, ministries, so that these programs are based on scientific evidence. With regard to this law, the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber of the previous year, whose audit concerned the previous implementation of the programmes, indicated that the public authority has no knowledge of those programmes which are created by local authorities. The president's opinion may have been negative, but the program could have continued. That's what we want to change. We also want information on the achievement of the objectives of this programme in this respect, but not to punish. If the opinion, the recommendation is positive for any health policy programme, then we are not talking about punishment, because that is not the point at all. It's all about knowing what the health effect of this program has been. Here, too, the 1.5% issue has gone through many times. NFZ. The NF continues to have 1.5% for benefits that are related to promotion, prevention, but does not finance double financing of the same benefits. That's the idea in this record. As for the specific questions I said about in vitro, about the fact that this bill is supposed to do this, that it's still supposed to take something, which isn't true, I found out with great surprise yesterday. The subject of specific programmes, Mr Rometsky, spoke about specific programmes. I can't tell if they're gonna be funded. This has to go through the agency's evaluation procedure. We want the agency to finance, recommend it on similar terms as the British NICE. I don't think we're saying that the British are bringing in a religious state or anything. This procedure is the same, very similar. We also rely on the famous SMART health policy programmes. We're not based on any alleged opinions. Specific programmes must go through this procedure. If they pass, then there is no problem with financing. Few of this, thanks to this law, the agency is able to create the so-called. recommended health policy programmes where there is no need to go through the whole evaluation procedure. If there is a description of this program prepared by the agency and there is a recommendation to use it, then any local government can simply take such a readymaker, in quotes, to take it. I don't want to refer to those comments about who's behind this or what kind of cameramen are gonna benefit from it, I'm just gonna leave it unanswered. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[That's it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u262	Thank you very much. Will the committee rapporteur want to speak? Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to address those who have personally attacked me without understanding my role. On the one hand, I would like to say that the draftsman of the committee should give the principles, the objectives of the bill presented as far as possible, and also present the technical elements related to the procedure in committee. On the other hand, as a Member, I really agree with the objectives of this project. Here I can totally express it. I think that the Minister has presented you with real intentions for the implementation of this law and there is nothing to discuss about it. On the other hand, I would like to address one more thing: the words spoken here appear either by Mr Arłukowicz or by the Member. I apologize for using the statement that I hate women, or that we hate women, that we don't understand women. These statements and allegations are absolutely unlawful, so that I strongly ask you not to use such statements in the future. There's also an in vitro problem. In fact, as a private Member, not as rapporteur for the committee, I can say that if this issue were considered, I would be opposed to in vitro funding from public money. [[That's the point of this bill, this project.]] So much for the charges against me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u264	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on arms and ammunition (Print No. 1692). I ask Mr Bartosz Józwiak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I am pleased to present to you the parliamentary bill on defence and ammunition, printing No. 1692, together with auto-corrections taking into account BAS's comments, which is the result of the work of a wide range of social organizations related to shooting, sports shooting and such organizations that bring together lovers and gun collectors. This law lays down rules on the possession and acquisition of arms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the disposal, storage, carrying, handling, use, transport and export of weapons and the operation of shooting galleries. The proposed law on arms and ammunition is intended to replace the Law of 21 May 1999 on arms and ammunition. This amendment is primarily dictated by the need to achieve full harmonisation of the Polish legal order concerning the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms with the rules in force within the European Union, such as the revised Directive 2008/51 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 amending the previous Directive, with the latest amendment of the EU Directive, which our law absolutely does not comply with and is practically not suitable for such legislative improvement as would allow these elements to be fulfilled. According to the Constitution, Poland is a democratic state of law, which means more or less that the legalism of public authorities and officials should be one of the pillars of its statehood. However, despite the different changes and the good direction of these changes, there are still areas where, unfortunately, the former system has been known to have arbitrary discretion in administrative decisions. And this is the area where, for example, the legal regulations on access to arms are in force. And it is many people in Poland who feel it. The current law on arms and ammunition, although adopted in 1999, unfortunately continues a little bit of this thought from the former system in its approach to arms, which is in fact based on the treatment of access to arms as a certain attribute of power and the privilege of its favorable persons and of refusing access to it to persons fulfilling basically the requirements of the law, and who are ordinary citizens. It must be acknowledged here that the rules in force in the European Union have forced certain modifications, to a certain, yet insufficient degree, Europeanising the Polish legal state. This special treatment of the legal possession of firearms by citizens to a certain extent is a tribute to the fact that in some police circles there is still a way of thinking appropriate to the previous system, according to which the police, as if to represent this armed arm of the state, are not fully fulfilling the obligation which is based on helping citizens, but rather some place to stand up against these citizens. And although most of the staff has already been exchanged for natural reasons, we often deal with such elements rather than other thinking. The amendment of the law on arms and ammunition is also part of the process of rebuilding a strong, sovereign Polish state. The lost independence of Poland in 1939 will actually be regained when the Polish state authority gives Poles the right to own weapons which were taken away from them by German and Russian invaders. Czechs, Lithuanians, Slovaks, Hungarians and other nations that came out of the same post-Soviet boiler can long have weapons on normal European principles, Poles still can't. We've still got a government that's about as large as 1 000 gun permits. residents than the average in the countries of the European Union. In Poland these are approximately 3 licences, the average of the European Union - approx. 30. It actually shows the scale of the difference. This limits our country's defence capabilities and blocks the development of Polish industry. Actually, today we have only two small arms factories and two small arms factories, all with very modest manufacturing capabilities. In comparison, the Czechs are practically dominant in this market when it comes to the countries of Central Europe. They dominated the arms market and the ammunition market. The level of crime in Poland is roughly equal to the average level in the countries of the European Union, i.e. disarmament does not actually raise the level of security in our country in any way. In this context, it is very important to create a large market segment in the economy of the country with significant annual revenues for the state budget. And that's what the shareholders are talking about, the presidents of weapons companies in Poland. In addition to the arms sales network, this segment of the economy also consists of shooters with instructors, training facilities, gunsmith workshops, private museums and, most importantly, clubs bringing together people of different interests, which foster the development of civil society. In addition, in the age of the professional army, at the moment also the territorial defence of the country is beyond overestimating the situation in which individuals want to improve themselves, they want to train in shooting sports, in the use of weapons. Those who want to learn this with their own money and with their own weapons are very valuable to every country. In the hour of danger, they'll be the weight of gold. At the moment, Poland has a unique period of serenity at the borders in its history, when no one of its neighbours is in fact threatening it in an important way, its statehood, i.e. it does not bring significant claims, but this state cannot last forever and today we should also be aware of it. Let us remember that always at the moment when they wanted to conquer Poland in any way, enslave or addict Poland, they sought to disarm Poles. Unfortunately, today we continue such a sad Peerelow tradition of disarmed Poland. Access to weapons in Poland is still treated as an attribute of a certain privilege, a certain reward, a little maybe even an attribute of power, as a guarded privilege of power belonging primarily to persons associated with certain structures, as if situated above in the social hierarchy. The other citizens can only aspire to this privilege by means of an organization of a monopolistic character, but also very specific in terms of formation: whether it be the Polish Strzelecki Union or the Polish Łowiecki Union. You really don't have to be a hunter today to have a gun, learn how to shoot or use a gun in a shooting range. These are two different things, so we should also pay attention here. But the essence is what this law introduces and what it concerns, and it also applies to a very large number of important issues. Although it is not marked as a law relating to the regulation of Union law, it nevertheless concerns EU law and its failure to introduce or at all not to amend the law on arms and ammunition will also have some consequences on this canvas. The most important of the proposed changes to the current legislation that this law brings... There is a lot of talk about this bill, everyone talks about it, and almost nobody in Poland has read it. I read newspapers, I listen to journalists, and I don't really know what bill they're writing about and talking about, because it's certainly not about the one we put in here and presented, so it's really worth remembering a few things. Firstly, it is a change in the concept of arms permits issued for the declared purpose of use. There is an amendment to permits for a specific set of technical weapons, as is the case with driving licences issued, for example, for passenger cars up to 3.5 tonnes of total weight, and not for example. for the purpose of travelling on holiday or for the purpose of commuting to work. Such stratification is in line with the European Directive and the practice in most countries of the European Union. Secondly, the real departure from discretion in the issue of arms permits. The law clearly sets out the strict positive conditions to be met for the issue of a permit for weapons and the strict negative conditions to prevent the authorisation from being granted. The licensing authority is simply to apply the relevant provisions, as is the case for the issue of licences, licences or similar. To date, arbitrary discretion in the issue of arms permits has not only hindered access to arms for ordinary citizens, but also unacceptable cases of the issue of legal permits for professional weapons to criminals, for example. various police confidants. We have also dealt with this, and anyone who has ever applied for a weapon, also knows what the road through torment is and how, at the end of the day, meeting even the requirements of the current law, you can not get this weapon. 'Cause at the end of the seat, you're gonna say, "You didn't convince me." Thirdly, the introduction of an effective system for monitoring the health of the gun-holder, in particular his mental health, resulting in the immediate withdrawal of the permit in the event of a disease which excludes the possibility of carrying a weapon. The proposed bill sets out these diseases precisely, while at the same time eliminating the currently functioning discriminatory records of persons with disabilities, for example, the organ of movement or hearing, which, in our opinion, has nothing to do with restricting the right to own arms. The current system of medical examinations appears to be aimed primarily at hindering access to a weapon's permit rather than real system security. In our project actually at every moment, every day when a family doctor will be able to determine that a person has been sick with a given disease, he shows certain signs of illness which, according to the law, prevent him from carrying a weapon, he is obliged to report it, and there is such a reaction to the fact that the weapon is taken away. Fourthly, the introduction of objective rules to check the competence of an aspiring person to carry a weapon when justified, i.e. primarily as regards the wearing of weapons in hiding in public places. Today it does not exist, there is no such control every certain time, it is issued once and later not checked. This is served by a special competence test, periodically repeated, checking for elementary shooting skills in the use of weapons under stress. In this way, any person wishing to gain the right to carry a weapon to self-defense would have to prove that he had a certain level of skill, but he would not have to prove a greater threat than he did today. Ladies and gentlemen, weapons are a deterrent element, they're a preventative element, so it can't really be that I have to get mugged first to prove that I need weapons. This weapon is basically part of defense, already passive defense, which means I won't be assaulted because I may have it, and the criminal also counts. It should be noted that the current general rules do not assume that this type of competence should be checked, as the right to bear arms is now a privilege granted on the basis of discretionaryly assessed imponderabilies. Fifthly, the introduction of effective mechanisms for tracking the history of weapons in the form of a uniform electronic system of recording of weapons permits, copies of weapons and all purchase-sales transactions. What's important is that it's uniform across the country. Currently, one separate registration system is used by the police and the other is completely incompatible with the police, by the Military Police. This is a far-reaching solution, because in fact such registers - fully functioning and efficient - do not yet have European countries. Some partial solutions are available, for example, in Germany, but are also only at the stage of refinement of these elements. And here we could be the leader again in this matter actually. Sixthly, a change in the authority issuing the gun permit. We propose that, like the Second Republic of Poland, a permit be given to the governor or the president of the city accordingly. Currently, police commanders are authorised by police officers under the service command of the Chief of Police, which is not the body mentioned in the Act, but through dependence, the service subsidiary has the right to shape the policy of issuing arms permits. In fact, the rules there are formulated by a number of people employed in the Police Headquarters, which is worse, they can change by 180 degrees as a result of momentary emotions, and in the changed letter of the law. Other rules are in force in the Military Gendarmery, which is the issuing authority for the licensing of weapons to professional soldiers, which also introduces a state of inconsistencies in the application of the law. And that's the subject. The river, if we were to tell you how it works right now in the police force. And I am absolutely in favour of the police no longer being a judge on their own behalf. What is the level of the administrative authority, we can discuss in committee, and it should not be police authorities at all. This system just didn't work out and it doesn't make sense to go into something that doesn't work or works very poorly, and people feel it very often on their own, as if recently when using a gun with rubber balls, where they actually bought it in good faith in licensed stores, and then the police appeared and there were legal problems. Seventhly, the precise definition of the substance concepts of weapons and ammunition used in the Act is to eliminate once and for all the interpretation doubts which are an immanent feature of the current legislation. The current law on arms and ammunition has lost consistency after numerous amendments and therefore no longer fulfils the function of an effective regulator sensitive to the security of a fragment of reality. As an illustration of this incoherence, let us use the first example on the shore relating to weapons used for hunting. Art. 4 of the present law mentions hunting weapons, art. 10 - about weapons for hunting purposes, but the interrelationship of these terms has not been determined in any way. The source of this dualism is one of the little carefully implemented amendments to the law, and we have a problem with that too. This law introduces a clear vocabulary, clearly defined concepts. Finally, we are done with this interpretation, which unfortunately we all had to deal with. After the eighth, implementing in the Polish legal order the amendments introduced by the revision of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons of 17 May 2017, i.e. the latest amendment. This Directive has introduced significant changes to the rules on access to certain categories of weapons, in particular certain types of weapons included in the extended category A, as well as the inclusion of museums and private collectors in the Directive. So far, both museums and collectors have not been included in the scope of the directive. The scope of the individual categories A, B and C has changed and category D has been eliminated by transferring the weapons contained in it to category C. A regular monitoring of the state of compliance of the holder of the arms permit with the conditions for its issue, in particular the state of health, has been introduced at intervals not exceeding 5 years, with alternative continuous monitoring being permitted. Several definitions and rules for the carriage of weapons have also been amended on the basis of the European Firearms Card across the intra-EU borders. These changes have led, as I have already mentioned, to a significant loss of compliance with the EU Directive. The proposed proposal for a law on arms and ammunition implements all these changes, often more stringent than the minimum required by the directive, e.g. weapons belonging to category C, i.e. requiring only registration, in accordance with the draft law, may be held on the basis of a licence from Mon. Citizen's gun card, so we'll go a little further. In place of five-year verification periods, the draft law proposes a system of continuous monitoring, resulting in automatic withdrawal of the permit for weapons in the event of negative conditions, i.e. convictions for a specific offence or diagnosis of a particular medical condition, I mentioned this earlier. The project introduces permits for museums - collectors have long been subject to the arms licensing regime in Poland - and lays down the principles of carrying weapons across the borders of the European Union in line with the revised directive. The proposal also introduces EU-compliant definitions of the terms used in the Act, including e.g. alarm weapon, currently identical with gas weapon, which is absolutely incompatible with the professional nomenclature. Previously, the rules distinguished them, without defining them clearly enough, which was the reason for the problems of interpretation. The draft law also introduces a stratification of the weapons category precisely in line with the new directive, including effectively recognises the very difficult implementation of the issue of large-capacity replaceable magazines - for short-armed weapons, respectively, 20 rounds, for long-armed weapons of 10 rounds. These magazines do not constitute a substantial part of the weapons nor do they require permission to possess them, but the possibility of their purchase and use has now been limited by the Directive to persons who have been permitted to use them in category A7. To sum up, the proposed proposal for a law on arms and ammunition is a modern act prepared in accordance with the best legislative principles and with the utmost care both in substance and in law and in accordance with the European Union legislation governing access to arms. It was developed in a legalistic licensing spirit in place of the current opportunistic licensing legislation. This project is also groundbreaking in the sense that it radically breaks up with the legacy of the previous era. The present law is de facto written on the basis of the communist law of 1961, that is, anachronism, and duplicates its conceptual model, which, on the one hand, made it as difficult as possible for a person without connections to obtain a weapon, on the other hand, treated people belonging to a group of privileged persons very liberally. This break-up will destroy the current arrangement of interest groups and enslaved coteries in the procedure of separating the privilege of access to weapons, leading to the elimination of the related pathology. The principles of access to arms will be the same for all citizens, objective and rational. At the same time, the regulatory mechanisms provided for in the draft law, including automated procedures for withdrawal of permits in situations where there are grounds for excluding the possibility of carrying a weapon, will ensure an increase in the level of public security in this respect, although the number of arms holders will probably increase after the implementation of this draft law, for example because no one will be discriminated against, i.e. those who comply with the statutory conditions, will receive this permit. Today we are not dealing with this, and here is the fundamental problem. If we achieve through this law, thanks in fact to the fact that we will abide by the provisions of the law, the average European level when it comes to the possession of weapons by citizens, it will still be very successful. I think this is the upper limit of what we can count on under this law. Dear Messengers, Dear Members, I would ask you to direct this project to further work on the committee. I think that we can disagree in detail, we can talk about it, but we absolutely should not at the moment decide to block a project which, first, meets the requirements that the Union imposes on us, and in a moment we will be asked to meet these requirements, secondly, a project that really introduces modern legislation in Poland. It's not really clear, a project that gives people guns. This is a project that organizes the legal system in Poland and clearly defines the rules who, why and when can receive this weapon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Arms Ownership and to refer to what the applicant said about the bill in question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the safety of Poles is the most important thing for those who are involved in the exercise of power, for the government, for Parliament. Here as if no one is doing grace, because it's obvious. We just charge money for it, Poles are our employer here. You could talk about it for a long time, repeat yourself, because it's obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of accessing Polish weapons, extending this access is not a new idea. He appears every once in a while, triggers - and well - certain emotions, because we live in the times in which we live, these are not easy times. The terrorist threats that, fortunately, have been missing our country so far are obvious. And that is one of the reasons why this bill should be clearly and concretely leaned over. Ladies and gentlemen, the applicant has outlined the plan, the draft law. At the very beginning I have three doubts, which are, I think, worthy to discuss right now. First element: Article 10 we read that there is a catalogue of people who are not authorized. First of all, I wanted to rely on this catalogue on mental health. There are listed particular diseases, but after all, ladies and gentlemen, this is a moving directory. It can't be that the bill is just at this point talking about which people who have access to weapons shouldn't have. Art. 11 says he's giving permission to an old man. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very important element, and I say this as a self-government officer as a former governor. If the old man gives such permissions, it would be in his best interest to issue as many permits as possible. Not much, it's the old man who's setting up a team, setting up a committee that's gonna be working on these permits. What is it? After all, it will be the own income of the county, i.e. old age will depend on the issue of arms permits as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, weapons are It's not a car. And I'm talking about it because there's an analogy here. Starosta has income in the county from registration of cars, driving licences, etc., etc. Therefore, we cannot compare this and say that the issue of arms permits is identical Or the same thing as what an old man can do when it comes to issuing other documents. Ladies and gentlemen, the third element I'm just signaling. It is forbidden for intoxicated persons to carry weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, the recipe is dead. It's a dead recipe that doesn't work. There's an analogy to the car, too. In Polish legislation, if a driver drives a car under the influence of alcohol, he is subject to appropriate penalties. It's obvious. But how can we punish a man who carries a gun and wants to use it? Ladies and gentlemen, this must be discussed very, very seriously. This is not a matter of having, I don't know, a bottle of water or something that doesn't put Poles in danger. I know intentions are good. But we have to remember that this is extremely delicate matter. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government sees this problem because right now the campaign we are talking about is loud, let's call it a contractual one: my home - my fortress. The idea is to bring about a situation where citizens have the opportunity to effectively defend their family, so that the heads of these families can effectively defend their families. That's what we're here for. So this is already an element that, as it were, comes to this. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing patriotic groups, the Territorial Defence Army, which already at the moment want to start this discussion again about the possession of weapons. This is the direction. I believe it is appropriate, but I have a lot of doubts about the quality of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, since my time is almost here, I would like to put it this way: Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not say 'no', does not apply to reject this law at first reading. In this context, we should further consider what to do with this project, but above all what to do on issues relating to the amendment of this law. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's parliamentary debate is about the fundamental issue of state security, citizens and public security. The draft law on arms and ammunition presented by Mr Kukiz15 is a call for large liberalisation of access to firearms in relation to the current law on arms and ammunition. Unfortunately, it is underdeveloped, chaotic and contains a lot of errors even at the definition stage. The existing legal situation makes Poland a safe country, and potential changes can undoubtedly disrupt this order. The right to own weapons always arouses great emotions, not only in Poland, but also around the world. We note that, due to the age of terrorist attacks, various groups are increasingly lobbying for the easiest possible access to firearms for every willing citizen. Is this the right way? Should Poland follow this path? Liberal approach to the issue of easier access to arms, which is opposed, by the way, by a survey of the daily Rzeczpospolita, 79% Poles surveyed, clearly poses a threat to citizens. We could multiply dark statistics forever, but we want to show the High House, and especially to the initiators of this project, that firearms in the hands of an inexperienced user are a big threat to him rather than a means of security. The basic amendment proposed in the bill, which is one of many controversial changes, is the transfer of the powers to issue arms permits to the competence - as you mentioned - of the seniors and city presidents on the rights of the county. At present, there are 314 counties and 66 cities on the rights of the county in our country. The draft foresees that the permit for arms will be issued through an administrative decision, subject to the provisions of the CCPD. and the possibility of appealing this decision to the CSA. The current law leaves the procedure for the issue of arms permits to the competent local police commanders and the capital command, and for soldiers in active service, the weapon permits are issued by the competent local military police commanders. A gun permit is to be issued to any person who is 21 years of age and meets certain conditions. It is strange, however, to narrow down the catalogue of crimes, since at present any intentional offence constitutes a negative condition for obtaining a permit for arms or for taking it away. According to your project, it will not be difficult to obtain a permit for weapons in the case of a person convicted of a deliberate tax offence or even a criminal offence, but who poses a threat to himself, public policy or security. It should be stressed that in the light of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of the current law does not permit a person who is addicted to alcohol or psychoactive substances to arms. Meanwhile, art. The 10th draft law does not prohibit this possibility. Are you aware of the risks in the event of a possible entry into force of the law in this form? Do Mr Kukiz15 want to increase the risk to citizens by significantly reducing health and non-punitive requirements? The inventors of this bill supposedly want to fight against the so-called. discretion in issuing decisions, but do they realise that at 380 offices, which will issue administrative decisions, the so-called rules. Assessment of reasonable grounds for the issue of a gun permit, e.g. for recreational purposes, will they be able to vary significantly? Another controversial idea is to reduce the requirements for medical examinations. Similar requirements apply to doctors, psychologists who must have a 5-year internship in the profession. The proposed changes create a danger that a weapon permit may be granted to persons who should definitely not have a weapon, as this may threaten the loss of health or life by those persons or by other people. Another novelty is the abolition of the obligation to belong to sports clubs associated with the Polish Association of Sports Shooting. The very intention of shooting sports, including recreational sports, will be a legitimate reason for the so-called "old woman." a citizen's weapon card which entitles you to acquire and own firearms such as long-fire weapons, smooth-bore weapons or revolvers. It is also incomprehensible to try to deliver the government to Prime Minister Szydło from the obligation to implement the provisions amending Directive 91/477/EEC in the Polish legal order. You cannot use this prosthesis by implementing certain provisions of the Directive. It is the government's duty to present a proposal for an implementation project to the Sejm. The Civic Platform also expects a clear government position on your project. After all, the seym freezer stopped him for 10 months, and supposedly the freezers weren't there. Incoherence with other laws is also a serious mistake, which causes chaos and duplication of legal entities. You will force 70,000 with your proposed records. qualified physical security personnel holding a gun permit to pass another extended permit test. 70,000. People are gonna pay for this. To sum up, due to the social nature of the proposed law, which is a proposal of various groups and shooting environments bringing together tens of thousands of Polish citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Despite numerous errors, shortcomings and contradictions, the Civic Platform proposes to face this project as part of its committee work, by proposing numerous amendments that must balance the expectations of communities promoting a liberal approach to arms ownership with full legal safeguards and, above all, the security of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives and the Rights and Justice and the Platform for wanting to work on this project, which is extremely important. We see in society an increasing need to rationalise the rules governing access to arms concerning the authorisation of access to arms. And here I want to lie about a myth that has grown, that Kukiz15 wants to hand out weapons to all Poles who will, and that - I don't know - next to the Freshmen on the shelf will be a weapon. This will not be the case, ladies and gentlemen, we want to rationalise those rules which are now extremely confusing. There's really a long procedure to get a gun. People miss it. If they want guns for their own safety, they have to sign up for clubs, get a sports permit. It's ridiculous if someone just wants to have a gun at home to defend their home, their family. And the other thing, ladies and gentlemen. As you well know, we are one of the most disarmed countries in Europe. In comparison, there are about two guns per 100 citizens in Poland, while in Germany there are 30 guns. There's a huge difference. We cannot assume that permits for weapons for citizens can be issued when there is a war, because if citizens are to use their weapons responsibly, they must become lavish, respectful, gain experience, the ability to use weapons. It can't be that suddenly we're gonna give guns to citizens when there's some kind of threat, assuming that citizens are able to deal with that weapon. That's not gonna happen, because the weapon, as we know, is a tool that is used in people's hands to kill. If it happens that we introduce these rules in the wrong way, it could lead people to just start hurting themselves. That's why we want to rationalise these laws, put it all together so that people can finally have access to weapons and clear rules as to how they can get this permission. The rest will be said by my colleague. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, It won't be any surprise if I say that, of course, as one of the people who signed this project, I'm signing it again. Yes, we as a Kukiz club15, in which many are those who hold a gun permit, whether for sports purposes, whether for personal protection or as hunters, look at it from a practical point of view. Many of us have been through the entire procedure of obtaining permission for weapons, and even though the opposition sometimes accuses us of mental instability, as you can see, we have been through these procedures and we all have weapons, and nothing is wrong with you in this regard. [[Applause]] So it's not as bad as you sometimes put it in the media. I would like to deny one myth that appeared during the discussion on this law that it is the liberalisation of the gun access rules. Nothing more wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, read into this project, it's a simple arrangement of this mess that we have. I do not know if you know what it looks like to obtain a permit for sporting purposes, which, like the Member and the Minister, I believe, is a gateway used by all those who simply want to own a weapon, whether for personal purposes or simply to shoot themselves at a shooting range. This is absurd. The amount, you can say, the hours of shooting at the shooting range, going to the shooting range, pretending to be a sports shooter, joining a club with a contribution of PLN 500 per year, going to pseudo-competitions, where you have to score enough competition to get an extension of your license for another year, that is absurd. These are regulations that don't work. Mr Law and Justice says that there are no rules that work, that a dead person is a rule that an intoxicated person cannot carry weapons. Mr President, I from the shooter's community know exactly how responsible people are those who own weapons. [[But this is a shooting environment.]] These people don't even drink alcohol in the house where the gun is in the closet, so it's a whole other matter. [[That's a bad comparison.]] This is a very good comparison. The wrong comparison is what you've compared, that the old man is gonna want to make money by issuing gun permits. Well, if you treat old folks like crazy people who'll spend it just to make money out of it, then actually It's a very bad comparison, because it's not a driver's license and it's not buns that will be lying in a hypermarket on a shelf, so you can come and buy a gun. [[But that's what he can do.]] Once again, I would like to lie this myth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's a liberalisation that I think I'm going to ask the Minister the rest of the questions as a question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Cyranski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the Parliamentary Club Modern proposal to reject the bill in its proposed form at first reading. Now let me justify it. The provisions of the bill offer quite liberal access to weapons. In the current long-standing legal order of the Republic of Poland, access to weapons for ordinary citizens is significantly limited, and statistics show that current permits for weapons are issued mainly for hunting, sports or collectors' purposes, but the number of permits for weapons issued for personal protection purposes is significantly decreasing, and they are often withdrawn. This is demonstrated, among other things. that a person who is currently interested in possession of weapons has a purpose, e.g. sports or hobby hunting have the opportunity to obtain it. They are generally associated with educational organisations for the proper use of weapons. On the other hand, the downward trend in permits issued for personal protection may be linked to the current results of the CBOS survey on security among Poles. It shows that 89% The surveyed consider our country a safe place to live. The proposal - fewer and fewer people fear for their safety. At present, people interested in shooting as a sport have no problem using guns at the shooting range, which is a place for this purpose. I don't think we want people with guns to go out on the streets, and the project assumes in my opinion that there's too little requirement for permission to carry a gun. The consequence of these changes will be the fact that people so far uninterested in having weapons out of fear will want to acquire them, and fear is an introduction to aggression. Invoking by the projectors that the broad, albeit strictly controlled access of citizens to weapons is an element of ensuring state security is wrong. According to the surveys, our country is a safe place, and in addition to providing security in the country specialized institutions and formations, such as the police or the military, rather than the common movement. In addition, when it comes to safety reasons, designers assume that crime is expected to decline after the introduction of the new legislation and refer to the experience of other countries. It is hard to argue with reliable statistics here, but one thing is certain - it is much easier to do harm or kill with firearms than for example. a knife, because you can do it at a distance. I fear that liberalisation in terms of access to arms can lead to an increase in serious crime and its brutalisation, which has an impact on the sense of security among citizens. Moreover, the nature and impetuousness of Poles combined with access to weapons could result in tragic solutions to private disputes under impulse, using available weapons. I would also like to ask those submitting the project whether they are able to take responsibility for the victims who will appear after the proliferation of weapons on the streets. I'm curious how soon after the project has been launched, you'll be pulling out of it. Unfortunately, it'll be too late by then. I believe that Poles are not ready for such a radical change of approach and so abruptly towards the current legislation liberalising access to arms. Our society is not accustomed to the presence of weapons in the environment. If we want to give citizens a responsible opportunity to acquire it on principles similar to those set out in the proposed proposal, it is necessary to take into account the transition time before the change of legislation and to devote it to appropriate education of citizens in terms of the principles of safe use of weapons or the consequences associated with its misuse. We cannot make such drastic changes without proper preparation, because it would be extremely irresponsible and the consequences of this - difficult to predict. We need to be sure that due to proper legal regulations, the wrong people will not be able to carry weapons. The project assumes, following the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 that the gun permit will be issued for an indefinite period of time. The person permitted to hold a weapon must be checked for mental predisposition, for example, on a periodic basis, specialist tests should be carried out to verify that there are no changes that may affect the ability to hold a weapon and that knowledge of the applicable rules should be reviewed, all in order to ensure safety. Another unacceptable provision is Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 2. He says that a doctor of primary care who finds that there are no psychiatric contraindications to the issue of a weapon permit may consult a psychologist or a specialist in neurology or psychiatry. Maybe, so he doesn't have to, which means he won't take advantage of it. I believe that this opinion is necessary and absolutely should be issued by professionals. At this point I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Polish Psychological Society has presented its opinion on this project, which is definitely critical and is probably not yet attached to the work on the document, which I would like to change, and I would like to ask that it be taken into account. The natural consequence of the liberalisation of access to arms should also be an increase in police competence in the use of weapons, which the proposed proposal does not foresee. Greater access to weapons can lead to a significant reduction in security among police officers. Moreover, imagine a situation where access to weapons is relatively common, as the police are aware. Officers [[♪ The bell ♪]] When they feel an increased threat, they will start using more weapons, not necessarily in legitimate situations, e.g. while taking your hands out of your pocket... [[Adam, they're not murderers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u276	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u277	...police officers will start shooting at us like ducks, which will definitely increase the controversy about the rightness of their actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u278	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u279	By pursuing a law that conveys considerable responsibility to citizens and gives them considerable confidence, based on the idea of democracy, we should give the public an opportunity to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u280	Please take it easy...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u281	...or does he support such liberal access to weapons. I therefore propose that a referendum be held on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Bejda, the Polish People's Party. Excuse me, the Member has given his statement in writing. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law on arms and ammunition. The bill submitted contains provisions which lay down the rules of possession in the territory of the Republic of Poland, among others. arms, ammunition and the acquisition and disposal, storage, carrying, use, transport and export thereof abroad. In addition, it is also envisaged to keep a register of weapons and the functioning of shooting galleries. This proposal provides for the repeal of the Law of 21 May 1999 on arms and ammunition and for the amendment of other existing acts. I am in favour of broad access to arms for every citizen, of course, once the basic conditions that need to be worked out through a compromise have been met. Personally, I think it should be liberal legislation restricting the possibility of refusing a permit or registration of weapons to a few exceptions caused by health or a certain criminal past of a person wishing to own a weapon. As I said before, the bill of conduct needs to be clarified. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of sending the bill to committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u284	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, a non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u285	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Republican Association, which is very much in favour of the direction of the law tabled by Mr Kukiz15. This is a law above all, as has already been said, not liberalizing, and ordering a really huge mess that is in this area. In Poland, the law on arms and ammunition is a law that is actually implemented in a discretionary manner, and this should not take place in a state of law. This project, above all, here I will refer to the speech of the modern Member, is a project that will also give our police officers the opportunity to train. Like you said, they're gonna shoot us like ducks, but it's not from this project, it's just from the current situation where a cop shoots 7 rounds on average a year. This is embarrassingly little and it is dangerous for citizens, because the hobby shooter fires about 100 or several hundred rounds on one workout. That's the difference between a Polish policeman and an ordinary gun user who has a gun permit. This bill is essential. Maybe not in the shape or shape that needs to be clearly refined. That is why the Republican Association has also prepared a number of amendments to this law. If the bill goes to committee, which I hope will, of course, be tabled. This law should also be adapted to the standards of international law that Poland has already adopted. This law should also eliminate the remaining elements of discretion and make these procedures even more transparent and clear to all parties to the proceedings. That's where I'm gonna end up. I think that this bill will go to committee and we will have a chance to actually, in a very detailed way, look at what it will look like. The Republican position is that we are very much in favour of proceding it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u286	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If you don't... I'll close the list once you've written it down. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform, will be the first to speak. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u287	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to art. 16 of the proposed law, the facility permit shall be issued to undertakings, entities and organisational units using weapons to conduct economic or statutory activities or to carry out their internal security services' tasks under the protection plan. I have a question for applicants here: Is the possibility of requesting an object permit for possession of a weapon without the need for the applicant to demonstrate a legitimate reason for its possession in accordance with Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of a weapon, and in particular Article. 5 of this directive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My question to the applicants concerns Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 4 (2) which provides that an application for a citizens' weapon card must be accompanied by a medical certificate issued by a primary healthcare practitioner. My question is whether a primary healthcare doctor is competent to assess his mental state. While the further provision of this paragraph states that he may consult a psychologist or a specialist in neurology or psychiatry, it is optional rather than mandatory. There is therefore a concern whether the primary healthcare provider will seek such advice and will therefore be competent to issue a valid medical certificate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u290	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! That is a somewhat similar question to what my previous speaker asked. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 2 of the project under examination shall be accompanied by a certificate from the primary health care practitioner stating no objections to the issue of the firearms permit referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5). However, on the basis of the above provisions, the primary healthcare provider issuing such a certificate is not required to consult a psychologist or a specialist, neurologist or psychiatrist in the mental health of the applicant. Therefore, does this not pose a risk that a citizen's weapon card will be given to entities which do not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 1 (5) of this Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Explain to me, because I still don't understand this, although I listen to your statement, your speech, why arm the Poles, since 89% people in Poland feel safe in our country. Why? I didn't hear a single argument in your speech that would explain it. What's the point of all this if Poles feel safe here in this country? Convince me because I don't understand. Do you want to, because in your statements you refer to different statistics, you point to other countries, e.g. The United States, on the other hand, in discussions, in debates, because you also refer to our discussions... E.g. According to the U.S. Justice Department, almost 11 400 people die each year in shootings. Do you want to bring about such situations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we feel safe here, why do you want to arm Poles? It's completely incomprehensible to me. 89% Poles say: we are safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions, very specific, regarding the provisions of this law. As long as I'm done, that's all I'm gonna ask. First of all, here are the questions about this health check. I wanted to ask what the applicants were doing by liberalising the rules in this respect, because this is a clear liberalisation. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I think you have nothing to lie about. He's giving this medical opinion right now, here's the doctor who's gonna be P.O.P.D. He'll be able to consult, he can, so he doesn't have to, so this is where we flush it down. What did the applicants follow? What are the reasons? It's a question of letting guns go to 18-year-olds. There's a gate in the bill. Today it is only a permit for weapons for sports or hunting purposes, the state in this draft law gives up this definition. That's liberalisation, too. In this regard, the question is: Why do you give up precisely this definition: for hunting purposes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the more so because the new law talks about weapons rather than targets, it seems that some restrictions on...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u297	...a kind of weapon would be necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u299	And one last thing, the issue of training. Why do you give up these trainings for people who have a citizen's gun card for three years...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u301	... Even though they don't use it all the time, they have it? It seems that this is also liberalisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u302	Mr... You're welcome. And keep an eye on the timeline so I don't have to interrupt you. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! When I listen to Modern, I can't believe it. You can see that you haven't read this bill, and you're just trying to make a big show so that later on in the evening TVN will release information that Kukiz15 wants to introduce weapons for every Pole so that everyone can shoot at each other later, either because of family problems or different political views. Because you guys are taking people out on the streets, and we're gonna give them guns. That's your message you're trying to create. But I'll tell you, the gun is because it's almost 200,000. People have guns, illegal weapons, because they have black powder weapons. Well, there's really no problem with the gun, because 750 zlotys can still buy it on Allegro today. And that is my question to the Minister. Is there any way... I mean, black powder weapons aren't registered, of course, but do you know the statistics? Or am I wrong, or is that 200,000?? Or do you know the statistics on how many black powder weapons there are? Do you have any idea how many criminal incidents a black powder gun has been used? I would very much ask you to answer my questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, of course, have a question to the Minister, because with the rapporteur, we will have a conversation at the club's forum. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister! I would like to ask you and I would like you to answer these questions as far as possible. Tell me what are the reasons for the police, issuing permits, as they are currently issuing, deciding how many weapons are due to a given person with a permit, because this is always the problem of sports shooters who have a categorically limited amount of weapons to different competitions. Sometimes it's four, sometimes it's five. Someone who wants to shoot a long-distance gun in a long-distance competition must also try to compete in some kind of competition. It's fiction, you admit it. And, Minister, also a serious question. Tell me - quite seriously I'm asking you as a practice - what is the disabling force of a black powder weapon in comparison with the deflecting force of a 22-LR missile athletic weapon used for purpose [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sports by young people, for example. And why sports weapons with a calibre of 5 and 6 mm are required to be allowed, and black powder weapons with a separate charge...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u306	Mr Pierce, you're very welcome to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u307	...this permit is not required? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The weapon is not only the law, but above all the responsibility, and this project in my opinion will make Poland the Wild West. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the truth, gentlemen, and don't laugh, because you're gonna stop laughing when the first kid blows his head off because of your stupid bill. That's the truth. This is the worst bill, because she's actually putting a physical threat to all of us. And don't laugh, because it's really... By the way, Bartek, I value you very much. as a man and as a messenger, but what you have presented here has absolutely nothing to do with common sense. At the same time, I would like to remind the Minister that, in response to my interpellation, I think the honourable minister personally replied that he did not see the need for amendments to the Arms Act. Please remember and may remind the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that it should also respect the government's position if you are one formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Cyranski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u311	I have a question for the rapporteur whether he has read the opinion of the Polish Psychological Society. I will quote only one point from this opinion, namely: Individual predispositions to possession of weapons in the opinion of the Polish Psychological Society go beyond the conditions described in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. Moreover, the vast majority of those mentioned in this article remain undiagnosed and even unaware of their problems. For example, exclusion of disability is not sufficient, because in a stress situation, to properly recognise the conditions of the necessary defence, one must have at least an average level of intelligence and appropriate personality characteristics. Evaluation of e.g. These qualities are the subject of psychological examination. Many of these features are dynamic throughout their lives, and a single assessment may be immeasurable for young, albeit adult, who are still in development and for older people, who will lose their psychological abilities as a result of age - related changes. Yeah, well... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the statistical correlation in Poland between the amount of weapons, weapons permits and the number of murders with their use? How many such crimes are committed using a weapon legally owned? I'm asking because many people say they're against having guns, and you can say that people who own guns aren't threatening us, they have weapons to defend themselves for their own needs. Here at the beginning I heard the speech of the representative of the Modern. Either there's a request for a break or a rejection. Probably a slingshot you'd throw away, too. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u314	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the hall: Don't whistle because it's serious.]] Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! It seems that the United States is the country in which there is the greatest access to weapons and the greatest universality, hence very often attempts to limit this access. In the United States in 2015, it was the first such year, the number of car accident victims was such Same as the number of people who died from gunshot wounds as a result of an accident or a homicide. [[Voice from the room: No.]] In comparison, there are dozens of accidents involving weapons and murders in Poland, while there are about 3 thousand. People die in car accidents. [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] I think it's important to remember that a weapon is primarily a tool that can be used for crime, also in passion, and when it's at hand, of course, this is much easier, but it's also a tool that can be part of an accident, e.g. A child could be killed using a gun. In the United States, there are even accidents involving children up to the age of three. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For these reasons, as you know, we are against this bill. We believe that in a country where citizens feel so safe and do not want access to weapons, there is no reason to expand it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u316	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question for the Member of the applicant. In the explanatory memorandum you calculated, you estimated, that in the end in Poland just over 1,100 thousand. People will have guns. As I understand it correctly, this figure is based on the acceptance of a 1 000-dollar gun rate. inhabitants on average for Europe. It's a very unreliable respect. Do you know any more accurate estimates? I'd be willing to make a hypothesis that actually the interest in having a gun will be several times greater. Minister! Maybe your resort also has an estimate of your interest in weapons. I'd appreciate it if you could share that knowledge if she is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u319	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Four questions to the Member of the applicant. First: Who disarmed the Poles and for what purpose? Second question: What professional and social groups currently have a monopoly on violence and have a permit for weapons, and why is this a post-communist nomenclature? [[Applause]] The third question is: Is it true that today for 1 000. zł on one of the most popular auction portals you can easily buy a weapon from which, as you have said many times here, you can kill another human being as well as with this legal weapon that public officials, police and state services know perfectly well about? Are you aware that today there is no problem to acquire such weapons? And the last question is: What is the difference in using the car and the gun properly? How many rules must be followed so as not to kill another human being properly [[♪ The bell ♪]] Using a car and a gun? Because this comparison has rained many times today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u321	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, For starters, perhaps such a remark to Mr Piotr Kaleta. You said you were an old man. I was two terms, and I can't imagine doing the old-fashioned functions that increase the county's own income bypassing the law. And you said that, thus disappointing all the seniors, self-governments in Poland. It doesn't agree, Mr. Ex-Old, sir. [[And I have to answer that. I didn't mean to.]] And now the question of substance to the applicant. Since the governor will be the authority that will issue the permit for weapons - of course it is possible to discuss whether this is the correct location or not - will it be a task of government administration or local government administration? If this is the task of the county itself, where is the amendment of the law on the income of local government, the district? And if it's a government task, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question for the Minister... [[So I was right. You're denying yourself.]] ...does the Minister possibly have any knowledge of the costs incurred by the administration...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u323	...by the government to carry out this task. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Respect the old men.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u324	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to start by thanking Mr Modern, who, acting on behalf of the club, thanked several times and noticed that we are living in a very safe country. You won't say it on a day like this, you say it at night, but it's valuable, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's what the statistics say.]] However, I wanted to ask briefly: For what reason in the proposed law, as referred to in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, a citizen's weapon card and a basic permit are granted indefinitely? Why it is, I don't know. I ask for information in this regard. I was also intrigued by the fact that these weapons could be used for economic purposes. If the rapporteur could explain what this is all about, what it would be like to use this weapon for economic purposes, I would be very obliged to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask if the Ministry may have been conducting some analysis of what is happening in other countries with access to weapons. Here we heard, especially on the left, that there will be a Wild West in Poland. I do not think that Poland is a wild country and that if Poles have more access to weapons, they will start bumping into the streets. Here, too, I will remind you of the sentence that he has said, or with a very nice name, Mr Kobyliński, that we will regret how the first child burns himself in the head. I guess that depends on the responsibility of the parents. The child might as well fall down the stairs now if the parent is irresponsible. I simply recommend not to treat Poles like idiots. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Membership! I have a question for the Minister of the Interior, because on the website of statistics.police.pl I have found your statistics in the Police since 2002. And there's this column: dangerous tools. I have a question for the Minister: What is written there, what tools? Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this data we have a heading: murders, including attempts, with firearms - note - 32, dangerous tools - 297. We move on: damage to health with weapons - 22, dangerous tools - 737, armed robbery - 99, dangerous tools - note - 598. In total, statistics show that dangerous tools are 2611 and firearms 325. Minister, shouldn't we? [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduce concessions for knife, caste, other baseball, because it turns out that this is the main problem of Poland today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u331	Dear Marshal! Minister! The project we're discussing is not... Perhaps we should reflect on this - what the applicant has said - that it needs to be structured, but that this project of yours is not evolutionary but revolutionary. He's mostly... We can make a lot of comments about the catalogue of people who may have these weapons. It's about art. 13. But I have a question for the Minister, one about the article. 11. We've got a situation that's supposed to be all converted to self-government, 380 centers. Where's the police? But shouldn't the police issue these weapons, and shouldn't the police keep this catalogue, who owns these weapons, and when should it be undone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u332	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Pampuch first. You're denying yourself. As an old lady, you said that you couldn't include this income in the old man's budget... [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Activate.]] ...and in a moment's time, you're asking the Minister if there's gonna be an amendment to this bill. Lucky you're not an old man anymore. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Activate!]] Here's another one. Mrs. Joasi's already... I am already saying, Madam, because you said that 81% Poles surveyed feel safe that it is a lot. Yes, it is very much, but it is a matter for us, Madam President, to make 100% The Poles felt safe. This is the philosophy of the rule of law and justice. Mrs Lubnauer talked about how many people were killed in the United States, but she did not raise another question: How many people were killed when it was self-defense? That's the essence of the problem. [[Applause]] Finally, the question to the applicant. But shouldn't you consider withdrawing this bill? 'Cause what would happen... Think about what would have happened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] what will happen if people like modern Members have the possibility of carrying weapons. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u334	Please, Mr Tomasz Jaskola, and then in... [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: corrected.]] Member of the Commission and then Member of the Commission for the correction procedure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak, but in the stream of lies, and because most of the parliamentarians taking the floor here unfortunately didn't read this project, I decided to ask questions. First of all... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Most definitely. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true - this is a question for the Minister - that in Poland most gun crimes are carried out using weapons purchased illegally? Even though the police don't use it here, there's no catalogue where you analyze whether the gun is legal or illegal. That's weird. Of course, black powder weapons can be done far more harm than we think, and they are generally available. Ladies and gentlemen, I will overlook that the market here is very important. That'll give a lot of people jobs, these are shooting galleries, these are retired soldiers. But after many deliberations of the Sejm, I think that you should also seek psychiatric research for parliamentarians, because many can do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The damage is far more serious. And to Mr Cyanski. You can be killed with this piece of paper, and you say... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Cyranski, not Cymanski.]] [[I don't think you've read the bill.]] He read it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u336	Gentlemen, please don't insult each other in the courtroom. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Pampuch. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u337	Dear Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! There is no longer a Member, so let me just say one thing: you just have to listen to what I was saying, with understanding. If the former self-government does not distinguish between the tasks of the local government units and government tasks, this is enough for the entire comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Bravo, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u338	Thank you. Please, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! There's no Mr. Kaleta who's been very familiar just now. I'd like to send him a message. Mr Kalet, I am neither your friend nor your colleague. Remember and get in the head that I am a Member of the Republic of Poland. My name is Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. I'm not your friend, and you're gonna be assigned to the ethics committee for that kind of behavior. You don't have the right to behave that way towards other people, we just don't wish for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u340	Thank you very much, Member. Now I will ask you to answer or take the position of Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to start by referring to some threads, especially one thread, which has been clearly emphasised in the statements of the applicant. Well, Mr President, I would like to strongly disagree with you and even protest against the negative assessment of the police you have expressed. This is not an objective assessment, and I would like to ask you to verify it, because a significant part of your argument was based on such a negative assessment, but also statistics, and I think the common sense of security contradicts that, because it is the police that provide security for Poles. I would like to say from this wording, from this position, from this begging for the good name of the police, from its assessment, that this law, this project actually refers to an extremely important sphere - the security sphere of citizens. But here there is quite a difference between us about philosophy, about the idea of who is to ensure the safety of citizens. Well, Mr Szydło, I would like to stress very clearly that, in my opinion - and this is the philosophy that our government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, adopted; this is reflected in the programme of Law and Justice, which is now a government programme and is consistently implemented - the state is responsible for the security of its citizens. It is not the citizen himself who is responsible for his or her safety, but the State and the relevant state services that he or she is calling. This does not, of course, mean that there is no reason or reason to discuss what you are proposing, especially as regards the extent to which citizens have access to arms and the principle of access to arms. This, of course, is worth talking about, but it must not create such an impression or think - it means to think, only that I do not agree with it, and that is what I want to say - that it is to be so that citizens are to guarantee their own safety: let us give them easy access to weapons and they will ensure their own safety. No, that's what the state is for. That's why we pay our taxes to ensure that the police and other services are safe. You have been talking, Mr President, about certain constitutional guarantees, about the state of law. Yes, I would just like to point out that it is not possible to draw from these conclusions which cannot be defended, because the right to hold arms is not covered by the constitutional catalogue of civil rights and freedoms, so it is not subject to constitutional protection and access to arms is in force in the legal state, and this legal state is in line with the Constitution, subject to regulation in accordance with the provisions of the current Law on Arms and Ammunition of 21 May 1999. The applicant spoke quite much, and so quickly that I did not even have time to record and remember, about a certain sphere, I would say, axiological. Some of these statements of this nature could even be accepted, but unfortunately this project you have submitted does not always confirm this. It is not always these thesis that you have formulated in the presentation that is confirmed in the draft law, which we will probably discuss during the committee work, because, I think, the draft bill to the committee or the subcommittee will then perhaps be sent. I mean, I'm sure he'll go to the committee, and what's going to happen with him, of course, is the committee's decision - whether there'll be a subcommittee when there's more work to be done. There'll probably be room for us to analyze it in detail. I would also like to say that, with regard to European directives, the amending directive of 17 May 2017 is unfortunately not in a fairly large number of entries completed by the draft law. On the contrary, some of these proposals are contrary to this directive, because, however, whatever you would do, They said, however you would swear the reality of this bill, it leads to liberalisation in terms of access to arms, in many respects, and this directive does not necessarily. Even in some ways, it strengthens the conditions for access to firearms. As for this directive, you also know that it requires us, from Poland, to implement it within a year, and thus until May next year. The government will propose such a law if this directive continues. We know that it was challenged by the Czech Republic to the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, it is currently in force and if it does, we will be obliged to adapt our legislation to its requirements. The government will, of course, work is underway, this is the project we will present. Perhaps working on the project of the Kukiz club15 for some at least parts of the project will contribute to the development of good solutions which later can be used as part of the work on the government project. I do not know how this will work out in time - the course of work on what is being discussed today, and on a government project that will only be addressed to the High Sejm - but it is always worth discussing. It is worth considering solutions that will better serve our safety and will also fill in some acceptable range of expectations of the different environments that are formulated. If I have to refer to a number of more specific issues, I would like to say that regardless of how other matters proposed in this draft law will be settled - although the formal position of the government, the Council of Ministers is not yet in relation to this project, I am presenting here the position of my department, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - I do not think it would be possible to imagine, so let me say that we agree to this as a government, so that the authority issuing the permit for arms is the seniors to be a local government. No, I don't think there's going to be an agreement about that, and that's one of the key points. The police are responsible for security and public order, that is her main task, and it is she who should issue these permits. We may be wondering, and perhaps it is worth considering, here I will give you the right to clarify the rules on which weapons permits are issued, but when it comes to transferring them to local authorities, it is not - it is completely unacceptable. The concept for many reasons... Someone's been asking about the cost. We didn't count costs because it's not a government project, it's a parliamentary project, but I can't imagine it's going to happen at all, so I don't think it's going to be necessary to calculate these costs. There can't be as many politicians as there are old men and city presidents on the county's rights to issue arms permits. This is absolutely... It's just like school. So far, in some part This is still the case, there were as many politicians as the municipalities, as there were authorities running schools. This is an absolute mistake. The State must be responsible for this sphere - both education and security. On the other hand, the rule of the paragraph. Article 3 The 10 laws currently in force, which I will quote in part in a moment, may be worth making the subject of reflection. This is what he says: It is an important reason referred to in the paragraph above - and the next paragraph concerns the objectives in which the weapon permits are issued - that is, in particular... and here is paragraph 1 which has been criticised in the speeches of many Members; although the State may not have referred directly to it, the criticism has certainly referred to it, because it is this point that is the subject of criticism - that it is inconspicuous that it is discretionary. The constant, real and above-average threat of life, health or property - this is, of course, a question of permission for weapons for personal protection, people and property - it is indeed vague, I agree. It would be worthwhile to work on this provision, and maybe we will think about it together, but there can be no agreement, and the government's agreement on this will not be to liberalize or to do less demanding all these considerations that concern health issues. We must not give weapons to those who may make improper use of it. I don't want to go into the details here because you've talked a little bit about it, there's time to talk about it, but liberalisation in this area won't find our support. A whole range of other issues discussed will certainly be discussed in the further discussion already outside the Sejm Chamber, and certainly in the course of the committee work, but I would still like to quote the data, because it is worth knowing. So for today, I mean. on 31 December - this is the data for the last closed year, so it is up to date - that the number of units of weapons authorised in Poland - here I would ask the Member who used such a phrase in this country not to use it; please let us speak in Poland, in our homeland, and not in this country - is 685 430 pieces, while the number of weapons registered by arms holders is 424 675 pieces. This means that a significant number of weapons authorised have not been registered, i.e. the possibility would be more, in short, if these permits were filled with the purchase and registration of the weapons for which the permit is issued. That's the scale. Approximately 424.5,000. actually registered weapons and 685.5 thousand. licences issued. This is approximate data, I've already rounded it up. I ask you, as regards the defence aspects that have been raised here, that when more citizens have weapons, it would have an impact on the security of the state at all, and not just the citizens, it is obviously a matter of reflection in wider contexts. We'll probably find time and place for that, too. Weapons as the privilege and attribute of power. I don't feel like it's gonna be like this today. It's gonna be an attribute of power. Maybe that's how it used to be. Today, anyone who meets the legal conditions can be allowed a weapon. It seems to me that it is no longer only for privileged persons, because everyone has to meet the same conditions. This is also under control, so I would ask you not to formulate such opinions. Of course, this can be done in a public discussion, but it is not justified in fact. As far as discretion is concerned, as I have already said, it may be worthwhile to clarify that it should be smaller so that there is less discretion. As for the vocabulary that was mentioned, I don't want to go into details. I have a rather thorough analysis done, which I will present at the committee meeting. This vocabulary in many places is incompatible with the directive if there is to be such a assumption that we are to adapt these legal solutions to the directive. There weren't enough specific questions for me, but they were. If e.g. It's about this black powder weapon blasting force against the 5,6 mm lateral ignition weapon, and it has to be admitted that it is actually significantly larger. It could be considered, it is also a matter of discussion, at least such rules as to keep these weapons registered. That's something to think about. [[We're going the other way.]] As regards this number of arms units, in your assessment, the acceptance of the number of units is subject to a discretionary assessment based on the applicant's argument. Yes, it is. This is the case-law of the administrative courts. It is the police authority which issues the permits that is to assess the arguments submitted by the applicant and the authorisation of a specific number of arms units. Perhaps this is also a field for some reflection on the possible clarification of these issues. More generally, I would like to say that it is worthwhile and worth discussing this issue. However, the project is not coherent, poorly prepared, so it would have to be greatly improved in the course of further work. I think that there are far-reaching differences in the security philosophy between the government and the club that submitted this proposal, but we do not reject the proposal for dialogue and discussion on this subject. Because, as you might think, when you listen to the proposals, the parliamentary majority will not vote against the proposal, then we will work on it and then the various issues will be explained, discussed in very detail. I repeat once again: the security of citizens is primarily the responsibility of the state, above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Member of the applicant to answer the questions. If I could ask for a condensed answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll try to condense, although it was so much that it's really gonna be hard to do. I will try this briefly, perhaps I will not answer one question, but I will respect your time, I think there will be time in the committee to discuss. It was Mr Kaleta's question about the closed list of diseases. She's not closed, that can be done at any time, by a minister's order. It's not like there's a closed list of diseases when there's a new disease unit that's going to be considered as one that's bothering you, it can't be introduced. Next thing you know, it's administrative decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this may be an answer for a few people. That was before the war, and somehow there was no problem, now suddenly there's a problem. I know the police are trying to claim this right, and if she was doing what she's entrusted with properly, we probably wouldn't be talking about it. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and all comments on this matter are unfortunately ignored. Here's an example, Minister, very simple, my own, when the police interfered without any record in the bill, how many units of weapons I can have, if I can, and if I can't. It is not true that the Supreme Court, the administrative court, admits the right of the police, on the contrary, all judgments say that the police have no right to discretion in this matter and in a few others to whom this right will usurp itself. If you're able to influence the police, put this procedure in order, we can talk, but for now, this situation is pathological. As far as fees are concerned, I will no longer speak. Today, actually, all taxes are paid to the county. We are talking about issuing this on the same basis as in the case of a driver's license, which is part of a government order or under government administration. Besides, this is necessary, because here we are talking about a single register, which means it still needs to be centrally controlled. Next thing you know, when a drunk wears a gun, there's no consequences. He's losing his right to have that gun, that's clear. Just as a drunk driver loses his driver's license, so here a man loses his right to own a gun, so that it is not rejected in any way. About the questions of the Member of the Civic Platform. There's nothing in this bill about handing out guns. In relation to the applicable law, we do not increase in any way the distribution of weapons, on the contrary, exactly the same three points that are entered today, concerning the possession of weapons, we accept, only we end with fiction that in Poland we have the most sports shooters per citizen. Today it's a gate to get a gun at all and to go to the shooting range with her. Do you really, if someone wants to shoot themselves or learn how to shoot guns, how to deal with guns, how to hold a gun, ad hoc, I don't know, on weekends, from time to time, have to suddenly be a sports shooter, fill out all these formalities, including a race start? For God's sake, it's not in any country, and we're with such a typical socialist heroism. We create ourselves barriers, which then heroically we avoid. Let's try to straighten it out, because it's not that way, it seems, dear. Does this law reduce competence? On the contrary, we are increasing our competences. I mean, we want every five years... On the one hand, it is alleged that we are reducing our competences, on the other hand, that we have to renew every 5 years. We are ordering, because it also orders the EU directive and it will have to be introduced, that there are no permits for personal defence for an unlimited period, while we increase these competences, require exams, we require skill, or practical exams. Ladies and gentlemen, how many people today with guns, judges, prosecutors, ex-police officers, ex-police officers have the ability to shoot who would pass a practical exam today? Really very few, and they have this gun and they can use it. And none of you are afraid to walk the streets? That, too, should be considered, because today it is, under the action of this law, exactly so. The EU directive requires, as I said, regular exams. As regards the fact that our law is incompatible with the EU directive at many points. Ladies and gentlemen, the Office of Sejm Analysis, which I believe is the competent authority for this analysis, said nothing of the kind. It found non-compliance with the previous directive, and in the Legislative Commission, in the presence of Members of all parliamentary factions, the Sejm Analysis Office stated clearly that it did not make any comments on the non-compliance with the EU Directive and EU law. There are two minor reservations that can easily be resolved in committee, because they are very, very small elements. So I don't know where the conclusions are from about non-compliance with the directive, because it doesn't really happen. This law has been analyzed several times, including by BAS, that is, several times by BAS. I would like all laws to go through such a legislative path, such a path of legal laundry before they even appear in the Parliament Hall. As far as Modern is concerned, we were again talking about liberalisation. With all due respect, there's really no liberalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, because there was a question, maybe I could combine, if the number of people with weapons increases. Those people who meet this condition today, but the police are discretionaryly not granting them permission. You think suddenly, avalanchely, people will move when there are very similar rules. But here and here are the terms, it's not like we open and say - buy yourselves a gun at the market, rounds on the second shelf, and try the cash register. No. These rules are exactly the same, only that this bill after ordering will cause the permissions to be given to those persons who apply for them today, but are rejected not because of failure to comply with the laws, because of sickness or criminality, but because at the end of the day you say, "You have not persuaded me." Minister, yes, sir. We know that this is the case in the voivodship headquarters and the police are unfortunately not doing anything about it. This is a flaw, and this is my charge against the police. It's not like the police aren't protecting the state's order or protecting me as a citizen. But, on the other hand, let us not say that you take responsibility for everything, because it is quite dangerous from the Minister's point of view, because in many situations you will be able to appeal. You know, we can also say that the state is taking full control of the country's fire safety. Then why do we need fire extinguishers in our homes? In fact, it would be good for the security that the state is supposed to provide to us to be supported by the fact that this citizen is somehow involved in this security system, so I don't know why he should be disturbed if he still wants to help you or to do something about it. What else have I got here? Mr Bańkowski asked whether our law was compatible with the directive. There is a question of weapons for the protection of buildings or for the protection of various types of rooms. This Directive concerns weapons for natural persons. She doesn't speak at all on this issue, so we're doing it here, but we put that kind of weapon in the register. Further: Many questions concern the record that a family doctor or primary family care doctor is expected to give an opinion on health. First of all, this doctor really knows us, he knows our health best, because he's probably leading us for a long time, he's got a sick card. Secondly, he has the right to... We're all asking if he's competent. If he doesn't feel competent, then this bill tells him he has a right to ask. If he doesn't feel competent, let's give him that competence, too, because we all give him the authority to send us to cancer specialists, many other things, also very, very dangerous, and now we all say that he doesn't have those competences. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two things in the letter that he wrote about the relationship between a specific medical profession. Firstly, there is a clear problem that a monopoly on issuing certificates and a certain income is about to end. And as those certificates were issued, so also everyone who had to deal with guns and issue these certificates, we know very well, so maybe it's there to think about what was done, [[Applause]] To maintain a really good level of spending it, not make it as much as it was made. And secondly, from all this, I read that each of us is actually mentally ill, and only by submitting to the test can we pick up individual pearls that meet the conditions that they are not so sick and can get this permission. And that's what this study was mostly about: not to get it from anyone who was uncomfortable or wasn't supposed to get it because it was settled because you could make a crazy person out of everyone. As for Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus and the question of why to arm the Poles, we are not arming them, really. We don't arm Poles because no one's pushing anybody's gun. We don't say you have to take the gun, you have to do it. No. To those who want to, we say that if you comply with the statutory terms, this time you will not be denied the statutory terms. And that's the difference. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Why?]] Why? Because it is the will of Poles to possess weapons to increase their safety and... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: They feel safe.]] I'm glad they're safe. There is one good rule: not everyone feels safe, for example. I don't feel completely safe... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...so I'd like to have that permission. [[Minister, this is some sort of hint.]] Second rule: if you love peace, get ready for war. Ladies and gentlemen! Security is not guaranteed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u344	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u345	...forever. Perhaps that's what you think, and then someone comes from outside, lights out, and we have a problem. So that's one thing. In the United States, I have absolutely never mentioned myself, I have only mentioned the countries of the European Union. For one reason: the United States is a giant drug-trafficking crime, and that's where weapons-related crime is really concentrated. If anyone wanted to hear this, there was a great professional here six months ago when it comes to weapons, statistics, the relationship between the amount of weapons and the amount of crimes. He also talked about the United States. Professor John Lott Jr from the University of Chicago had a lecture for parliamentarians. Do you know how many parliamentarians were interested? Ten. Ten parliamentarians were interested in the way it looked in the world. In fact, we should also appeal to... There really are a lot of statistics produced by exceptional professionals and this has been true throughout the world. What else do we have here? The question is the number of weapons and the number of murders. The problem is that the police in Poland unfortunately do not distinguish between crimes committed with the use of legal and illegal weapons, but, in fact, let's be honest, in countries where this is investigated, there are no crimes committed with the use of legally owned weapons. Nobody's stupid enough to commit a crime like this. There isn't. If it's a legally registered weapon, it's most often stolen and used in a crime by a third party. So that's not there. And the number of crimes? Ladies and gentlemen! In any country where radical restrictions on access to arms have been introduced, firearms crime has increased. In any of these countries, this growth has not been fully managed, except in the United Kingdom, in which after many years it was managed, but at what cost? The cost of increasing police officers by more than half. In Poland - ladies and gentlemen, these are police statistics - theoretically, the increase in the number of weapons held is still up by 95.07% between 1997 and 2016 And at the same time, the number of gun killings is falling by 71%. There's no correlation. There are police statistics. All these curves are really mutually exclusive. At the moment, the increase in the amount of weapons absolutely does not affect this in any way. Besides, we can provide such examples on the canvas of practically every European country. There's no such thing as the amount of weapons legally owned has an effect on the increase in crime. There's no statistical correlation at all. Mr Dziuba asks why we are making estimates. Of course, we do not have such estimates as scientific estimates, made with a full scale of statistical surveys, and we estimate this increase. it's about that number of people, with a light hill, who are already applying for these permits today, and they don't get these permits. So it's kind of heading this way. Mr Romekowski. Who disarmed the Poles? I was the one who said: Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, and before that the killers, because such Poles were easier to rule, and kept it Polish Republic, because it worked so well that it was the militia that had guns and soldiers, not forest gangs. And that mentality somewhere is still manifesting that people will kill each other if they get guns. It was so sad from my point of view as a Pole to say that Poles are irresponsible, Poles will do the Wild West, Poles will kill each other. With all due respect, the Poles will kill each other, but the Germans, the Finns, the British, the Spaniards, will not kill themselves, the Czechs who are now entering the right to have weapons into the constitution. Maybe we should think about it, because in the Constitution there is no right to have weapons to defend, but there is the right to defend, the right to defend, and weapons are now part of defending themselves effectively against the same element that is commonly used by criminals. And criminals around the world have access to illegal weapons, she was, is and will be, because no one has managed to limit it. So maybe it's worth leaning over, too. Who's got a gun today? Indeed, there are also a number of people who have succeeded in doing so. However, with all due respect, those I mentioned were former militiamen, former prosecutors, former judges. They all have guns, and they're not afraid of being in danger. But we don't, yes, and I wouldn't want it to stay that way. Can you buy a gun for a thousand zlotys? You can buy a gun for 700 zlotys without any problem, this weapon is very effective, it can shoot a man without any problem, and that's it. And let us not demonize, ladies and gentlemen, because one more thing can be said. Do you know how many conditions it takes to drive properly, safely, so that you don't cause an accident so you don't kill someone? A huge amount: know traffic regulations, signs, have the ability to drive, all these kinds of things. In the case of guns, if I wanted to paraphrase, I'd say that in order not to kill someone, you shouldn't aim where you don't want to. So that's also the thing I was talking about. And when it comes to the tools of various types of crime, we should also lean a little bit, because recently we see that even cars are used more often in terrorist attacks than weapons that have become, I don't know, unattractive to them. Mr Rzońc asked why these basic permits were issued without a time limit - a weapon card and extended. That's how it is today. There is no requirement of the Union or any other to issue such a permit temporarily. Besides, what would it look like? At some point, we take away this man's weapons, all these... On what grounds - because he didn't extend, or... This permit is issued on a temporary basis, which allows use in public places or to defend the necessary weapons that are carried with you. And there was a question about this activity, that it is included there, that it could also be a reason for the activity. Yes, within the meaning of such activities as shooting training, it may be provided by shooting instructors. It's in this respect. This is an extension. I still have a minister here... I think we'll be able to discuss most of it with the Minister on the committee. But I already told you about BAS. You told the minister today that anyone can get that weapon if they put it together. Well, technically, in practice, it's not. These restrictions are quite large, and the police, using some statistics... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But he meets the conditions, and he doesn't get it, Minister. It meets the conditions, and it doesn't get, because at the end there's this one piece of discretion that this law is eliminating. This one element of discretion, when this man who decides this, says: you convinced me or you didn't convince me. If we eliminate this, we will actually eliminate a certain element of discretion, it will probably be better. On the other hand, the police use such statistics that very few of these licence applications are being rejected today. Minister, please examine how many applications are submitted, because people are no longer making these proposals today. Yeah, because there's no point in going through this hell to finally meet with a refusal. It's also a way to discourage citizens from, I don't know, driving cars, something else. If we're gonna put everyone on the driver's license test, we're gonna do it. And one last thing, the administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a citizen should be treated in accordance with the law and should be entitled to appeal against a decision. In the case of a decision issued by the Regional Police Commissioner, with all due respect, there is no right of appeal. This citizen can't appeal any more. In the case of an administrative decision, he shall be entitled to an administrative appeal procedure, which is already a sure fulfilment of his civil rights. So this is just one of those elements. Whether it's a county governor or a voivode, it's not that... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The appeal is to the Chief of Police.]] ...the basic meaning, but... Who is the chief of the voivodship, Minister, subject to his orders, and by whom he is appointed. With all due respect, sir, this isn't a road that would fulfill, like, the basis of legal independence. Thank you. I think there'll be more on the committee... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on arms and ammunition, print no. 1692. We know all kinds of cases in medicine. One of the interesting cases described in psychiatry is the so-called. bipolar disorder. It involves the occurrence of two different types of behaviors: depression and mania, in other words, joy and sadness. Ladies and gentlemen! As I see this project, this is the first association that comes to mind, because the project fundamentally changes the procedure for issuing permits. The current focus is on issuing permits only in exceptional cases. The project reverses this order - it will be unique not to obtain permission. To this end, all restrictive criteria will be relaxed or even eliminated in terms of both the application for the purchase of weapons and the authorisation procedures. It's nothing more than falling from extremes to extremes. Of course, according to recent data, Poland is actually at the gray end when it comes to the availability of weapons for the citizen. Of the 100 people in Poland, about two have access to weapons, but do Poles feel less secure? That's why the guys at Kukiz'15 invented that they would not only liberalize their access to weapons, but that they would introduce a new trend in carrying them around all the time? The question therefore arises as to what the purpose of this law is. Let's look at what it looks like in the United States. Here are some examples of tragic events: on 14 December 2012 27 people were killed in Newtown, 20 children - 12 girls and eight boys, 24 October 2014 - Seattle: one victim in school and one suicide victim - the perpetrator. Do you want your parents to be afraid to send their children to school? Is that what you want? Finally, one more example. On 14 June this year, a shooting took place in the state of Virginia, where at least five people were injured. Among the victims was Republican Congressman Steve Scalise. We see the need for some relaxation of the criteria for arms clearance, because it is now extremely difficult. But you can't go from extreme to extreme. Guns can't be widely available. The PSL Club will make reasonable amendments by looking closely at further legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u348	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No. 1702). I ask Mr Andrzej Halicki to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While we will be talking about the revision of the Penal Code, in fact this also indirectly concerns the Ministry of Home Affairs, what is happening in the police, in many Polish police stations, because this amendment, the amendment of the Penal Code, concerns the guarantee of the enforcement of civil rights, our security, the security of citizens who must have the guarantee that there is no impunity of power, that there is no impunity of public officials, that this administration, these institutions which are supposed to guarantee our security, are not suspected of their power, their position being abused. Poland has ratified the Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on Combating Torture, Fighting Physical and Mental Persecution, Abuse or Cause that these persons are subject to action in order to obtain information or to enforce testimony by unauthorised means. It is the 1984 Convention, which has its own additional protocol, which is also signed by Poland. Under this protocol, the human rights monitoring committees and the implementation of the law in individual countries operate. The Convention also provides for other international organisations which, through their regulations and their bodies, also monitor these issues, inter alia. The Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly. We're a member of this organization, too. I am also saying this from the point of view of my experience, because for two years - or even three years - I was the chairman of a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for two years Vice-President. In the Council of Europe, there is a so-called. CPT Committee, Committee on the Functioning of the European Union prevention of torture, which monitored it, was present in Poland and prepared a report on it. His conclusions include: the lack of implementation of the law in this area, i.e. the absence of a definition of torture and the definition and penalisation of crimes which may result from the actions of persons, I stress this very clearly, related to institutions and public functions which have a bearing on these crimes - crimes which are deliberately linked to the suffering of persons and their humiliation. The definitions of torture also differentiate not only this action, which is of the nature of additional punishment, enforcement of information or testimony in an unlawful manner, but also those activities which are discriminatory in nature or are an authorisation for such activities - and therefore also penallise or recommend that the same level of penalisation as if the person was also involved in this process. I propose that the recommendations resulting from the Convention be included in the Penal Code, in Article. 246 with three paragraphs, which I'll explain. This is precisely the distinction. Thus, these are three paragraphs devoted, as the Convention states, to the criminalisation of both those actions which concern the direct enforcement of testimony, information or statements, as well as actions which are discriminatory and slightly different in nature, but are physically identical. Actions with particular cruelty have been identified as those which should be particularly punishable. But there is also § 4, to which I would like to point out: the practice and criminalisation at the same level and with the same level of penalty of action, which allows for the actions mentioned above, i.e. the participation in this process of persons who supervise, persons who have knowledge, persons who permit such offences. It is extremely important to punish and enforce criminal liability also against those who, in the absence of this definition today, in the absence of precise records in this regard, most often act exactly the opposite: they cover up such crimes, cause them not to come to light, or minimize the significance of these crimes. For from what do I and many people, as well as the institutions that I have mentioned, show that this revision of the Penal Code is necessary? For example, from the image and from the situations we have at the Polish police stations. How appalling these stories are, we have recently had an example - Igor Stachowiak - the one who saw the light of day. I remind you, in May 2016, Igor Stachowiak was murdered in the toilet with a taser. He was tortured by several police officers. Moreover, this case has been covered up for a year. We heard, just like we used to, years ago... It seemed that after 1989, after changing the militia to the police, it would be the security guarantee and this security would be rebuilt in our citizens' feelings, and we would not hear such sentences as once in one of the reports: beat so that there were no traces. It was shown here that the taser was used not only in a deliberate manner, to cause pain, but also in a totally humiliating way, a man who was handcuffed, helpless, asked for help, asked to stop. This beasty thing can't go unpunished. What's our situation today? How often do we have a situation? Because I can talk about many, many cases. I'm about to respond to them. The most commonly used is § 231, i.e. exceeding powers. Most often, the situation is directed towards disciplinary action, and we are talking about the possibility of expulsion from the service. And yet this is a crime that absolutely requires bringing the finals to the court. There must be a true judgment of this act, a double unworthy act, because not only in relation to cruelty, not only related to crime - in this case murder - but committed by an officer, who is to give security guarantees, a public officer, who is to be the one in the face of whom even one who has broken the law, knows that the law will be applied and applied in a fair, adequate way, without exceeding the rules and without impunity precisely. And what's the picture of the police in recent years? This is not just a matter of recent years, I would like to draw attention to it because we are aware of it. I can list many examples from the last few days that we know about. This was highlighted by the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar in his report. The Igor Stachowiak case. That's the death at the police station in Wroclaw. But I also remember perfectly well the images we saw, recorded by telephone, images that caused the protests in Bialystok. The death of a young Jagiellonian fan who was suspected of being drunk was strangled and strangled, even though people asked, said that he was losing his breath, died, that he had to step away from this action. What happened to the officers responsible? Chief of Police Voivodeship in Białystok Daniel Kołnierowicz received a general promotion. Is this really acceptable? Shouldn't this case have a real criminal dimension? Can supervisory and responsible persons be promoted after such an event? Same thing happened a few years ago in Siedlce. I'm guessing three cops tortured three people. The question asked was even more shocking: Do you prefer Guantanamo or Belarus? And what happened to the senator who was talking about his police officers being exemplary police officers? This year he was promoted to Rector of the Police School in Szczytno. What's he gonna teach? What example is to be given, and what example should it be, if such events occurred under his supervision in the district headquarters if there is no paragraph or finale in the form of a real punishment for the perpetrators who did so? Let me remind you that of three people suspected of stealing a little something, one boy is dead. Torture, which is used by public officials, does not concern big cases. These are not actions aimed at particularly cruel and ruthless murderers or criminals. They appear when, on the other hand, the victim becomes very often either a small thief, or a person rolled up somewhere along the way, perhaps in a drunken state, as in a few cases that involved drunk drivers. It was about a man who, yes, had a conflict with the law, but is that a reason to beat him up so he could lose his life as a result? Well, there are a lot of cases. He's been to Gdynia lately. He was in Lublin - Karol Dzyr. This is 2017, it was recently, in May. You remember the case of a Frenchman that happened in Lublin. That's where the cops got fired right away, but it's not enough. Częstochowa - the death of an Austrian. He was 63, his wife asked him to get his meds because he had a heart condition. First he collapsed, it didn't help, he died. It cannot be that such deaths are without consequences. Juwenalia in Łódź, also happened recently. The death of a student. In Pomerania, the death of an 18-year-old boy who was subjected - as his father testified - to the election. He just got questions about whether he shit himself or not. Another of his attackers meets on the street. He's still working with the police, and one of the Pomeranian newspapers reported about it, too, after that kind of action where the stun gun was a toy. He feels insecure and lets his eyes down so he doesn't meet his neighbor because he knows he's walking next door, living next door, still working at the police station. Do you know what his nickname is at the station? Volt. It was reported by the press. Can we tolerate such events completely with impunity or when they come before the justice system, apply the article. 231 overshooting rights? Taser's like a weapon, it can kill. We know about this after looking at photographs that ran past Poland and so appalled. At one of the airports, at the Canadian airport, Robert Dziekonski, Pole, died, remember, just because he couldn't communicate, didn't speak English, didn't know what the officers of this airport were saying to him, public officials. It can't be that with knowledge of this, we're indifferent. It can't be that, instead of paying a ticket, someone goes to the police station, and as a result they don't leave, either their parents or their loved ones are picking up a dead person. Lębork, 2017, police intervention against two men, also using this kind of force. Wałbrzych, December 2016 Gdynia. Olsztyn, 17 police officers are currently investigating systematic abuse and torture during interrogation. There are dozens of people injured, 35 in court. This is the principle, in this case we already have an example of this very procedure, which was cyclical, with full knowledge and awareness of the superiors. This example of Olsztyn is found in international reports, it is very often cited, because it is a case which is still pending before the court. We're waiting for her finale. Reports that concern Poland also include these statistics. They're terrifying. When I was the head of the subcommittee - the Permanent Sub-committee, it was in the previous term - together with the Helsinki Commission and the Ombudsman, we also worked together with the Police to educate and avoid this kind of story without consequences, so that it would not affect and affect the image of the entire Police. We had statistics that covered more than 400 cases, collected from the last 4 or 5 years, such police activities, which were followed by the proceedings of the BSW, and in some cases also at the request of the prosecutor's office, were brought before the court and were described. None of them should be without the finals, without explanation, also legal, but only in a dozen cases there has been a conviction, there has been a judicial final with a judgment. I'm talking about this not just to accuse everyone, just to eliminate these black sheep and so that no case reported and described is left without consequences. The problem is that civil oversight, the knowledge of the Ombudsman, as well as the parliamentary committee, which has been set up for this purpose, do not exist in this term, and the BSW itself, which was a partner for us at the time, is now directly subordinate to the minister and in fact has become secret. The documents that concern Poland are fresh documents and at least two, which come from the last year, I wanted to recall. These are the final remarks concerning the 7th interim report of Poland. The Human Rights Committee, the UN-Etonic Agenda, points out in points 25 and 26. - I refer to this document - that, as regards the prohibition of torture and the cruel, inhuman treatment of persons, the Committee is concerned that, despite the signing of declarations and conventions in 2002, despite the government's assurances of implementation of the law, the offence of torture is not considered a criminal offence in the Penal Code, and therefore there is no definition and there is no direct reference beyond the enigmatic article. 247, it is not fully taken into account, and therefore it is also fully validated. The Committee is also concerned that excessive use of force is still being recorded, and that, moreover, it is not just the police, it concerns the Prison Service, it concerns other areas - cases of covering up or ignoring the signals. In point 26., i.e. in the recommendation, there is clear information and conclusion that the State Party to the Convention, i.e. Poland, the Polish Government, should, firstly, amend the Penal Code in this respect in order to ensure that all elements of the crime of torture are prohibited in accordance with Article. 7 of the Pact, and also lay down sanctions for acts of torture commensurate with the gravity of this crime, and thus in line with those definitions I mentioned earlier. It should also be ensured that all allegations and complaints made concerning acts of torture and ill-treatment are promptly and properly investigated. The State Party should also ensure that the alleged perpetrators of those acts are held liable and, in the event of conviction, also punishable in accordance with those judgments. A very important document, currently discussed in the Council of Europe, is the monitoring of the CPT committee, i.e. the one that monitors... which visited Poland in 2016. Nils Muiznieks, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, also visited Poland. It's also a big report - a report that has dozens of pages. The conclusion of this report is point 23. I would remind you that the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Punishment makes it very clear that non-fulfilment of the law is a violation of the Convention and that the lack of definition means poor education but, above all, a lack of criminalisation, which is already a very strong point of the committee. I remind you that Nils Muiznieks himself, I had the pleasure of attending this meeting, he was also a guest of Marshal Kuchciński. I'm reminding you again, I've been reminding you a few times. Marshal Kuchciński assured Nils Muiznieks, representative of the Council of Europe, Commissioner for Human Rights, that not only will a permanent subcommittee monitoring human rights violations be restored, including those we are talking about now, is due to a lack of rules in the Penal Code, but above all to education. We will make every effort to raise the level of knowledge, cooperation and standards in this area. I could also refer to other documents, which also concern Poland. Let me remind you that, for example, the Department of State, this important institution, too, has one - I think of the United States - committee which, in relation to partner countries for the United States Government, also monitors human rights issues and reports when important violations in this area concern countries with which parliamentary and government relations are maintained. Poland certainly belongs to important partners in the United States. It can also be said in this 2016 report that in the case of torture, Poland not only does not notice such crimes, but more, there is permission or ignoring abuse of the law and the use of torture, listing many cases, among others. The Olsztyn one I was talking about earlier. I don't think it's a trivial thing, it should not only be ignored by the House, but also by the government, that such reports, which are in line with the facts, appear in such important documents drawn up by our strategic partner at the end, because it is certainly a major damage to our image as a democratic country, as a partner country, as a country which in such areas as the question of human rights, awareness, absolute guarantee of civil rights, but above all not as scandalous as torture, physical abuse of a man who doesn't even have the chance to defend himself... First of all, it cannot be left undoubtedly that such pathologies should be eliminated from life together and effectively, in a determined manner. This should not apply to any European country at all. That's where I'm gonna end the introduction. I have a lot of documents and we can appeal to them too, but I hope that no one will think of throwing this amendment into the basket during this debate. We can talk about the scale of penalties, about the provisions that should take into account and exhaust this implementation. I am not closed to the formula of the amendment that I have proposed, but I think that no one will think of rejecting this subject in relation to this drama that we have just witnessed, in view of the scale of the phenomenon that is taking place. I think that it is primarily in the interest of the Polish Police itself to stand on the side of what is a guarantee of security, which, on its own behalf, should provide us, the citizens of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Stanisław Pieta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the print project 1702. Well, Mr President, we can talk substantively, but I must say that we are in pain of any tragedy, of any human tragedy, but it is highly inappropriate to use this tragedy to make unfounded accusations or to carry out any political attack. The State project begins in this way: The main objective of this project is to criminalise the use of torture by public officials and to tighten the upper limit of penalties to be imposed by law enforcement officers using violence against citizens. These changes are necessary due to the situation which took place in the Polish police post 2015. And here, sir, the discussion is over. We can't talk like this. I would like to add that the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland has also spoken about this project and the opinion is clearly negative. Therefore, my club requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u352	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my views on the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code concerning the introduction of a new type of crime, such as torture, as well as the tightening of penalties for violence by public officials. The role of every responsible state is to prosecute criminals. There's no doubt about that. In this connection, the role of the responsible state and responsible politicians, Mr President, is also such as to shape criminal policy to sanction the phenomena which society considers to be negative, harmful and sometimes even criminal. There is also no need to convince anyone that violence against another person is criminal, and violence with particular cruelty deserves severe punishment, and extremely severe treatment deserves those who, due to their public functions, should protect people from this violence. As Dr. Adam Bodnar said in one of his public speeches, the Ombudsman, thinking about torture only in a historical context is a mistake. Here's the full approval. We must see that the phenomenon of torture is also taking place in Poland in the 21st century. Speaking of torture, we cannot think only of the use of violence by individuals towards individuals, we must also think of tortures used by public officials, tortures used by people who, instead of catching criminals, become them themselves. If we allow us to turn a blind eye to such extremely sensitive matters, then there may be hundreds of such events as the case of Igor Stachowiak that Mr Andrzej Halicki referred to today. The applicant's representative also pointed out the phenomenon of violence by the police in order to obtain testimony, explanations or information. This has become an increasingly common phenomenon in the last two years, a dangerous phenomenon. We have to stop this absolutely. He recalled a few, several shocking examples of police behavior, which resulted in several deaths. Art. 40 of the Constitution states that no one must be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. This is one of the fundamental principles of the entire system of human rights protection, which is clearly also embedded in international law. It should be mentioned here, for example, in the article. 3 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the United Nations Convention ratified by Poland. Our Penal Code currently uses the term torture only in relation to a group of crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes. In our view, this regulation is insufficient. Because what are tortures? After all, it is nothing more than purposeful inflicting physical or mental pain on someone in a cruel way, especially by public officials. It shall constitute an Article. The 1st UN Convention already cited. That is why we are so positive about the parliamentary legislative initiative to amend the article. 246 and 247 Penal Code. In particular, the proposed amendments introduce the concept of torture in the context of the use of violence by public officials or by persons acting at their direction. It's not just a legitimate procedure, it's a procedure. It's necessary. This change is also due to the Committee's recommendation against the Tortures, which raised the legitimacy of including the definition of torture crime in the Polish legal order. This is of considerable practical importance for the application of the law itself, because it will distinguish between two distinct categories of criminal offences - on the one hand, violence by public officials and, on the other hand, acts of violence in a broad sense, committed simply by persons who do not act on behalf of the State. The proposed revision of the Penal Code is justified in substance, consistent, comprehensive and consistent with the principles of correct legislation. It strengthens the constitutional standard set out in Article. 40, as well as fulfilling our obligations under international law. This is reflected in the positive assessment of the Supreme Court, Mr. I also fully agree with the reasons put forward by the applicant - all possible initiatives must be taken that will prevent violence by public officials. Trust in institutions or guarantees of respect for human rights are key values for building state authority. Therefore, I would like to call on all the forces in Parliament to make a point on this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] work and not reject it simply because it is written by Members of the opposition. We're talking about safety, dignity and respect, about other people's lives. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform shall request that the draft be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on printing No. 1702, a draft amendment to the Penal Code Act. I ask the applicants: please, one thing is the consensus - the violence that is being used by public officials, starting with the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts that you do not mention, which directs the psychiatric examination of healthy people, and then it is not known how long they sit, there is, but not all violence is torture. As for the very essence and assessment by international organisations, it is necessary to separate the Penalization of torture from various other forms of violence, because they are subject to different articles, not only in the article. 231, you could talk about it. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the opinion of the national prosecutor is negative. We may even agree here, but I also want to read the opinion of the National Judicial Council... [[We do.]] ...who thinks it's negative. I quote: It should be stressed that the proposed change in the content of this provision contrary to the intention of the projector may lead to a reduction in the catalogue of criminalised acts, because the linguistic interpretation of this provision shows that the offence will only be committed if the threat, violence or mental abuse applied by a public officer can be classified as torture. At the same time, the National Judicial Council notes that frequent and unfettered changes to the rule of law undermine the constitutional principle of trust. The national council therefore has a negative opinion. It is not true, Mr Myrch, that there is a positive opinion of the Supreme Court. Well, the opinion is very broad, because it has 18 pages, it is very detailed to say, it looks more or less like the justifications of the Supreme Court that it might be anyway. But at the end, I would like to read this: In conclusion, the objectives, the very objectives of the bill submitted to the opinion, and thus the aim of the criminalisation of the use of torture in the Polish legal order, and the increase of statutory sanctions threatening such behaviour, should be positively assessed. And now there is another sentence: However, it does not deserve to be accepted in the draft law how to achieve the above objectives. The introduction of a law in the proposed form will not lead to it being achieved, sir. So let me put it this way: all the opinions on the content of the project you have submitted are negative. He's just sloppy and should be rejected. He just doesn't meet the standards. I am surprised that 55 Members are signed under this project, including two former ministers of justice, but I am not surprised that Mr Budka, the last minister of justice, has not signed this project, the penultimate one. So in our opinion... We will support the position to reject the project at first reading because of the sloppyness of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u357	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club in relation to the draft law amending the Penal Code Act. The aim of this project is to Penalize in the Criminal Code the use of torture by public officials and tighten the upper limit of penalties for these acts. So that's actually the political answer to Stachowiak's case. On the other hand, when examining the substantive content, it should be noted that the project presented raises some doubts, as also pointed out by the National Courts and the Supreme Court, since the proposed change of the wording of the provision contrary to the intention of the designer may lead to a reduction in the catalogue of acts subject to criminalisation. It follows from the linguistic interpretation of this provision that the offence will only be committed if the threat, violence or mental abuse applied by a public officer can be classified as torture. The National Judicial Council also stated that the draft does not provide a legal definition of torture, and that such a definition should be included in the Criminal Code, not so long ago - and it has already been mentioned here - he also pointed out in his speech the Ombudsman. However, given the importance of this case, these legislative disadvantages cannot obscure the purpose of this law. I will even say that it is precisely because of the importance of this issue that we cannot afford any shortcomings, but also that we cannot afford to do anything that would be abandoned in this case. Therefore, in the opinion of the Poselski Club, the Modern bill should be directed to work in a committee in which to work to fill the gaps identified at the outset. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a club statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. I'm gonna be the first to head for the applicants. I am very interested in hearing the views of applicants on those opinions which have been presented to the project by the various institutions. They have already been discussed here, so let me just say that I would very much ask you to refer to these opinions. It is a pity that Minister Zieliński is not here because we have recently disappeared a little bit from public space, and in fact he is responsible for the service, among others. For the police. And that's the kind of thing that... It would be worth hearing what the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is doing to avoid this brutalisation in the operation of the police, and that such brutalisation, ladies and gentlemen, is, unfortunately, we hear from the various people who are taking [[♪ The bell ♪]] Participation in assemblies. Maybe the Minister will be kind enough to say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Case concerning the safety of Poles, among others. The police station is very important. The beastery at the arrest of Igor Stachowiak and all the situations that the applicant has been talking about cannot remain unpunished. There can be no permission to commit a crime or not to notice it. Thus, the Supreme Court expressed itself in its opinion on the draft law. He pointed out that criminalisation of torture as an isolated crime could promote the effectiveness of their prosecution. This solution minimises the possibility of avoiding or committing liability to an extent not appropriate to the nature of the act committed by virtue of the classification of acts of torture as unnamed [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this way, a prohibited act. These are very many examples, Mr President, and it is worth pointing out and quoting the entire end of the ruling, the opinion of the Supreme Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u362	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u363	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Complainer! I would like to ask whether the applicant will, however, refer to these quite serious allegations of the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court. While the idea itself certainly deserves to be understood and examined, I hope that this proposal will fail. Although the probability - I'm talking about rejection at first reading - is low, it might work. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how would you like to make this right, as this is, however, quite a fundamental reservation, because this is generally about the whole concept of law. However, the Supreme Court in this regard quite strongly, I think, criticized it. [[No, it's the other way around.]] That's my grade. I think it's worth a lot of work. On the other hand, I would like to ask for an in-depth explanation here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u364	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone reads opinions as they please. There are, as I see it, two Members who want to throw this project in the trash. I will quote a passage from the opinion of the Attorney General: there is indeed a discrepancy between the criminal threat provided by the legislator for the conduct of physical or mental abuse by a public officer over another person in order to obtain specific statements, explanations, information or statements - a sentence of imprisonment from one to 10 years - and a criminal threat for the conduct of abuse for other purposes, which were mainly qualified, as indicated above, and this is a penalty from 3 to 5 years. And that's the gate, ladies and gentlemen, she used the D.A.'s office today to press charges against murderers because that's the way it's got to be said. All of Poland saw this spectacle, as murdered, tortured young man Igor Stachowiak at the police station [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Wroclaw. This is where the gate was used in the form of exceeding powers, which means the guy just laughs at his parents and the whole society in the face. There's only one thing I have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u366	But you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u367	Your Marshal, last word. I absolutely agree with one thing. Poland does not notice - there were very important words here - the problem of torture. All the time in these two speeches of politicians who want to throw this project in the trash, not turn it to committee work, we only have politics and politics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to observe the time of all Members, because I very much do not like to interrupt. Mr Michał Woś will answer the questions and the position of the government will be presented by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am quite briefly, because the position of the government is not worked out, but I will present the position of the Ministry of Justice. We're really happy about that. Yeah, we're all in favour of tightening up the fine. We are pleased that the Civic Platform has said that the severity of the penalty is important, that you want to tighten the penalties, that you have presented a project that sharpens the penalties. We do not recall that you had such a position before, and what is more, it works the other way. It was the country that eased the penalties, reduced the statute of limitations, introduced the article. 37a to the general section of the Penal Code. I even checked, it was January 15th. In vote 100, Mr Halicki voted in favour of relaxing the penalties. So that we are pleased with this change in relation to the criminal policy of the state. We're all in favour of tightening up penalties, just like this project tightens up penalties. I don't know any groups that would want more than Law and Justice to tighten up punishment, or anyone who did more than the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General. Indeed, we want to sharpen these penalties in a thoughtful way, not in a guerrilla way. Four opinions and four negative opinions. I will no longer quote because I have been served by your Members in quoting these opinions, but each indicates that the project is prepared in a sloppy way. What's more, it's here, and even you've stressed that it's somehow for the benefit of a political dispute. Because people from Wrocław have already heard the charges. Moreover, thanks to the prosecution's actions, we had this recording and everyone could see what it looked like. [[After a year, TV showed it.]] Thanks to the D.A.'s office, thanks to the fact that the D.A.'s office has appointed experts and conducted a professional investigation... [[It was a real murder.]] ...we all found out what it looked like. And thanks to the Attorney General's actions... [[On TVN, thanks to TVN.]] ...we have such information, not others. People have already heard the charges. So that we're in favour of tightening up penalties, but in a professional way, and we're working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u370	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Halicki to refer to this. Please be brief, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, it's worth being precise. If you're quoting something, it's worth quoting me, too, if you want to appeal to history. That story wasn't born yesterday. It seemed to all of us that after 1989, especially the word "torture" is a medieval story, and when it comes to methods, I no longer say: inhumane, but those which are connected with the impunity of power, that this is an element of past times and we will never have to deal with them in a democratic state. Yeah, that's what I thought, too. Moreover, these polemics in the Council of Europe have happened before, because it is not the first time that the Commission visited us last year. I'll be honest with you, the most inspired material is the D.A.'s office... This is a close alliance despite all these two areas, I think about the police and the prosecution, and there is full cooperation. Internally, through the BSW, the police are dealing with this, these statistics are getting better. First of all, please consult with your colleague from the ministry, Minister Warchoł. Those who today reject or reject this initiative and work on it, de facto give a signal to all the police who feel this impunity. What's more, it means that you, as a government, do not want - I quote here, Minister of the Warchoł - to punish these bandits in uniform. I'm not saying it's all the police, but those bandits in uniform must be punished. It is not the punishment that arises from the enigmatic and timed-out paragraph on exceeding powers and such definitions, but the definition that is contained in the Convention on Human Rights. All crimes are not described in our Penal Code, although there is a glossary. Here I am speaking to the Member who said... [[There isn't.]] You're an MP. You asked me how I would respond to these two opinions, to a few opinions, because there are more of them. To be honest, they haven't changed in years. It is true that for a long time we defend ourselves against typing the word "torture" into the Polish Penal Code. I can say that I am personally opposed to this thesis, that this phenomenon in Poland is not the case. This is precisely the wrong notion of defending a good image, because a good image of the police will be when it will guarantee the safety of all citizens, i.e. it will also bring, in short, the Penalization of these most cruel crimes in a manner worthy of it. I'm just talking about it. I'm getting a substantive analysis, very important, of the Supreme Court, 18 pages. We can discuss the level of penalties or the description of this paragraph. I agree that it is possible to examine whether the words "torture" through such and such action are an appropriate description of this paragraph. We can eliminate the word "through," we can even introduce the definition itself into the dictionary, although it is included, as I said, in the convention. Do you have a definition of the word "homicide," which is repeatedly and in many places used by the Penal Code? Do you have that definition? Everyone knows what a homicide is. Everyone knows the same thing, and if they don't, we can send those concerned back to the article. 1 of the Convention which Poland has ratified. There are categories of torture described there. They refer to this point, they are codified. This analysis shows, firstly, that it is necessary to implement such provisions in the Penal Code and that this must apply to public officials. Let us not presume that this responsibility may also be applied on the basis of other provisions of the Penal Code, because it may be, but the problem is that it is the responsibility of a public officer that is twofold important. It has to be described because he represents the state, he represents the power. She is to guarantee respect for the law and the guarantee of civil rights. If the KRS also describes this topic on one page, then for me, I apologize very much, the opinion important is the 18-page one and I will lean over it. On the other hand, the enigmatic, multitasking message on one side is that this is not necessary, to put it simply, I believe that there is no dialogue on this subject. And the most important thing. I said this before, Mr Pięta clearly did not listen. You are also trying to make a political issue out of my speech and this initiative. It's not like there's never been a crime like this before. I myself said about statistics, about more than 400 such cases, which were monitored by the committee, which also in Parliament had knowledge about this and could question what happens to individual cases, what categories of crimes are brought before the court and what is the effect of these proceedings, whether they are, in short, sanctions and to what extent. If this kind of knowledge was public knowledge, it is also to get this effect the most important: education, because the police themselves should be interested in it. Therefore, it is a pity that there is no Minister Zieliński, that there is no Minister of the Warchoł, who spoke very strongly on this subject, and it is a pity that you are making this a political issue. The fact is that we are referring to this issue again today in the face of what all of Poland has seen. I'm thinking again about this drama of Igor Stachowiak and those photos she didn't show, I'm sorry, the D.A.'s office. It was not thanks to the prosecution that we learned about the case - the prosecution and the attorney general have not yet had their TV channel, and I don't think they manage it, unless that's the case, maybe I don't know something - but thanks to TVN journalists, because they did the investigation and the investigation, they issued the material. The fact is, after that, there was prosecutorial action. What if all of Poland had not seen this material? What if the reporters didn't get to those materials? We didn't know anything about this case for a year. What would happen if, based on the death of Igor Stachowiak, people did not start reporting, writing to the intervention office about similar or other cases that of course need to be verified, from many other cities? I've exchanged at least 20 cities. There are much more reports like this, I assure you, Minister. The fundamental question is whether you want to cause the effect that policemen, those who have untamed urges in this area, and believe that the taser is a toy, that you can play in this way, what's more, show your superiority, especially over these small ones, seem to them, such thugs who will never make a complaint in their life, because they will want to leave this command as soon as possible, which you can unpunishedly humiliate in this way... If we do not work on this project further and we do not develop a good, substantive formula, according to the stylistics of the code written, implemented, included in the paragraphs, it will mean only one thing: that you do not want to punish bandits in uniforms, I will once again use Minister Warchoł's quote that you give this permission, and such cases will be even more. I hope that Poland will not follow this path, that the monitoring committees will come one by one and alarm the international opinion that Poland is breaking the Convention on Human Rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u372	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u373	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the explanatory memorandum of the draft amendment, the main objective of the proposed amendments to the Penal Code is to criminalise the use of torture by public officials and to tighten the upper limit of penalties to be imposed by officials who are violent against citizens, given the situation which was to prevail in the Polish Police post 2015. I ask the Minister to answer the following questions: 1. Is it known that at a later date, in particular after May 2016, there will be further such behaviour of public officials towards the detained, which would clearly indicate the use of torture by those officers? 2. If so, how many such cases are known and whether criminal proceedings have been or have been conducted against the perpetrators of these behaviours, and with what result? 3. Is it known that public officials who were to commit the acts described in the justification for the draft amendment against Mr Igor Stachowiak should avoid any criminal liability only and only in view of the fact that the criminal provisions in force on the date of such acts may not criminalise such behaviour? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party on the subject of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No. 1702. The draft law presented to the Members concerned concerns changes to the Criminal Code and extends the list of offences in the application of torture by public officials and tightens the upper limit of penalties to be imposed by officials who use violence against citizens. Applicants, referring to the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of 10 December 1984, propose to amend the current regulation of Article. 246 k.k.a. concerning the extortion of testimony by a public officer. According to the proposed amendment, torture will be used by a public official or a person acting at his direction of violence, threat of unlawful or otherwise abuse of a person physically or mentally in order to obtain specific testimony, explanations, information or statement. At the same time, it is anticipated that the current threat of imprisonment will be left to date from 1 to 10 years. In addition, the authors of the bill want a public officer or one who, acting on his order, is allowed to use torture by physical or psychological abuse of another person, in order to punish him or her for an act committed by him or her, or for which he is suspected, and to intimidate or put pressure on him or a third party or for any other purpose resulting from any form of discrimination, to be punishable by imprisonment from one year to another. High Izbo! Recently, the country has been overtaken by shocking reports of police officers exceeding their authority. The case of Igor Stachowiak is the loudest here, but there are no others, no less controversial. In his speeches, the Ombudsman draws attention to them. As he emphasizes, torture does not occur at all in the case of serious crimes. On the contrary, they involve suspects of minor crimes, offenders, witnesses, young women, minors. It comes to them in the police headquarters' business premises, during transport to the police station, during detention, during interrogation by police officers and during interrogation. Methods are among others. beating with a club all over the body, tasering in private places, using professional gas, putting a plastic bag on the head and strangling, forcing yourself to be in a painful position and threatening to rape, drop drugs, provoke a criminal case, cause a dog to bite. A total of 33 police officers in 22 criminal cases were convicted of such abuse until 2015. 246 Penal Code. Last year there were six more convictions for nine officers. By understanding the intentions of the applicants who wish to brand these damned practices more strongly, this primitive form of abuse of power, I would like to stress that the previous edition of the article. L.A.L.D. there is also no doubt about the assessment of acts, but this does not prevent the perpetrators from applying these methods. I don't think the perpetrators in this case are wondering if they're gonna get two years or five years of imprisonment for their crimes. They assume that through a conspiracy of silence and a kind of professional solidarity they will avoid any consequences at all. We might as well write down 100 years of sanctions in the code, and it's not gonna stop someone who's sure they won't answer for their actions in court. In many countries, every police intervention is recorded, and every policeman has a camera on his uniform. We have also announced a similar solution from Minister Błaszczak. Let's hope it doesn't end on the announcements, because, High Izbo, this is the right direction for changes - more visibility, more cameras, more recordings. Everyone knows it's gonna be counted. Today, it often happens that at a critical moment, when he was to be detained according to his own testimony, the camera is in a strange way faulty and can't be recovered later. Such actions should be branded and not be fooled by stories of technical problems. Someone's responsible. It should also be considered whether we should promote access to a lawyer from the moment of detention. Although this is neither simple nor cheap, it could significantly improve the situation of the detained themselves. High Izbo! No more situations like the tragic death of Igor Stachowiak. However, we are not convinced that tightening sanctions alone will solve the problem and avoid similar situations in the future. It will certainly be a signal that parliamentarians see the importance of the problem and want to deal with it. However, we must bet on transparency, transparency and, if possible, rapid access to a lawyer. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank all those officers who respect the rights and standards of human rights when they take care of our safety. I regret that today, most honest officers are suffering by individuals, by people who should never wear a uniform. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club PSL request that the bill be submitted for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u375	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Telecommunications Law (print No. 1715). I ask Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very sad that such important laws, such as. The torture bill, but also this bill, which I will now present, is being discussed at an empty room and at night. These are very important things. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I am proposing amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and Telecommunications Law to strengthen the legal protection of citizens in the area of personal goods, which are currently being massively violated on the Internet, in particular online forums, discussion groups and social networks. Ladies and gentlemen! The Internet is a communication tool, which differs from traditional media, that anyone in this virtual world can be both the recipient of the message and the sender of the message. On the one hand, it gives citizens the opportunity to express their views freely, which is of course a very positive phenomenon, on the other hand, such freedom of expression combined with the sense of anonymity - because on the Internet we can be anonymous - it makes the Internet a breeding ground for hate speech that violates the fundamental civil rights and human dignity of specific people, all of us, because it concerns all of us, not only Members of the Modern Platform, Kukiz.15, Rights and Justice, and all citizens and citizens, regardless of where they live, what they do, what they call themselves. The present shape of both the Code of Civil Procedure and the Telecommunications Law does not fully agree to the possibility of using the Internet as a medium and to regulate the behaviour of citizens in this medium. We just can't keep up with what's going on in the virtual world, and it's worth working on. In view of the enormous scale of the problem of criminal proceedings in the area of hate speech, there are cases and very rare cases in our country, and the proposal for changes that we propose is intended to give all citizens, as well as NGOs, which is very important, concrete tools that protect each individual from hate speech individually. Currently, in civil proceedings, the entire burden of proof rests on the citizen and, in fact, at the beginning, the citizen is uphill, because, apart from proof of insult, the citizen is obliged to determine the person who insults him, namely his name, address of check-in or residence, if he insults the institution or even PESEL. In total, in the case of anonymous haters, and such are by far the most, the citizen or citizen, is simply powerless, because neither Internet operators nor internet service providers or Internet forums and social media operators they are not obliged to provide such information and without it the court proceedings do not comply with the formal conditions. In addition, there is a law on the protection of personal data and the Chief Inspector for Personal Data Protection has bound hands in this area and in fact it can be said that it works in favour of haters. In order to prevent this from changing so that there is no language degrengolada in the virtual world and to ensure a culture of public expression which should apply in a modern and democratic state of law, the current law should be amended and this law should protect citizens rather than the oppressors. I think that this is close to the Law and Justice, which has a majority in this Seym, which is primarily the direction of the Minister of Justice, and I think you just understand that. When we compare the state of law to date, our proposal provides for an extension of the catalogue of cases in which NGOs will be able, in their statutory tasks, to bring actions for citizens or to join such proceedings by adding them to the catalogue of cases for the protection of personal goods, because it does not work now. In addition, the proposal provides for the introduction of rules on the protection of personal property cases if they have been infringed through the Internet and the reason, i.e. the person who is harmed, does not know the personal data of the perpetrator of the infringement which are necessary to file the application. I'll tell you what the differences between the current state of law and the proposed state of law are. The fundamental difference between the current and the proposed legal situation is to allow citizens to bring actions without determining the defendant's personal data by introducing the so-called institutions. A blind lawsuit. Some time ago, the ombudsman said it would be a good solution. It would depend on the plaintiff's understanding of the three conditions. First of all, the reason, i.e. the person who would accuse, would be obliged to give a precise statement in a lawsuit that violates his personal property, including the URL under which these statements were posted, the dates and times of publication and the name of the user's profile or login. This requirement would allow the court to make a preliminary assessment as to whether the statements indicated by the person in question contain content which may affect his or her personal interests and, consequently, whether the action is actually justified or unfounded. The second thing is that a person who would make such a claim would also be obliged to file a statement in the action that both before and after the statements in question did not infringe the defendant's personal belongings, the accuracy of which would be assessed by the court already at the stage of the preliminary examination of the case. This condition is particularly important, since the specific procedure provided for by the proposed legislation should not be available in the event of mutual infringement of personal property by the author of the contested statement and by the person seeking judicial protection. It should also be borne in mind that the extremely unfavourable phenomenon observed in public space is the cases of repeated and mutual violations of the dignity of other people by Internet users. This is particularly the case during the exchange of opinions on web portals or social media. Therefore, in order to reduce the scale of this phenomenon, we believe that the possibility of using a specific procedure should be reserved only for people who themselves do not violate the personal property of other Internet users. Third point: the applicant would be required to file a statement in the application that he has attempted to notify the defendant via the Internet of his intention to bring an action against him or that such a notification was not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, one of you may say that this is an attempt on freedom of expression, and I would like to say that there is a fundamental difference between freedom of speech and freedom of expression and a speech of hatred that violates human personal interests, which violates dignity. One of the eminent thinkers - we often quote him here from this speaker - Alexis de Tocqueville, formulated one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Many times I have heard this statement from politicians in principle all options: human freedom ends where the freedom of another human being begins. A speech of hatred, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more than an unauthorized attack on another man and stripping him of his rightful freedom and dignity. We all, as we sit here, all who may be listening to us, are or may become victims of hate speech, regardless of which party we are. The project we are presenting today is a project that is designed to protect our fundamental rights regardless of gender, religion, nationality, political views and anything else. This project is neither right-wing nor left-wing, because the politicians of all the groups here were victims of the heyth, and some of them are, unfortunately, even the oppressors in this area. This project is also a project that refers to our common values, which I confess, confesses Ryszard Petru, Mr Schetyn, even Mr Kaczyński... [[And Tarczynski.]] ...that is to respect and dignity of another man. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of respect for another person is crucial both in the Christian ethic to which this web page often refers, as well as in the ideas of humanism that are close to me. In times where we live now, in our divided country, in a divided society, let it be our common denominator, because every nation and every society, in order to be healthy and functioning well, must just have such a common denominator. Let this common denominator for all of us be dignity and respect, which are apart and apolitical, which are simply human. I would like to add one more thing about this project, because it is very important. In fact, it could be a project over division, I hope it will be. I can't imagine anyone won't even discuss it. There are opinions and prosecutors, and KRS with different comments. I am open to these comments, I would like to talk about these comments during the committee work, I think it is worth it, but I would also like to draw attention to the social impact that this project entails. These social impacts will be very beneficial once this project is implemented. Those seeking protection of their personal belongings in the civil process will be given the opportunity of professional support from non-governmental organisations. It's gone now. Non-governmental organisations will be able to bring actions in such cases to the benefit of citizens and to join in the proceedings already under way. Such professional assistance from NGOs, which, in terms of their statutory tasks, will assist citizens in claiming the protection of personal property, will encourage citizens to pursue their rights before a court. In turn, the introduction of an institution of blind lawsuits will create a real opportunity to prosecute in the civil process claims against people who, using the sense of anonymity, because in fact very often this happens in such a way, commit personal property violations via the Internet. And another very good social impact, I think, is also very important: an increase in the legal awareness of society. Finally, I will say again that this project is a very universal project, a project that affects all of us, a project that is aimed at all of us. I have great hope that we will have a chance to discuss this in committee work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u377	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Law and Justice Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Telecommunications Law Act, print No. 1715. This project is based on the so-called concept. A blind lawsuit that this institution is not known at all in our civil proceedings system. Unfortunately, this project contains a lot of legal defects and I think I won't be able to talk about everyone for 5 minutes. First of all, it contains solutions for bringing an action without identifying the defendant. This constitutes a serious derogation from the general rules for initiating and conducting civil proceedings. It is unacceptable for a court to impose a statutory obligation to indicate the parties to the proceedings, in this case the defendant. The preliminary examination of the case by the same court makes it difficult for the case to be heard impartially in the same composition at a later stage of the proceedings. Admissibility of rejection due to obvious unfoundedness or mutual violation of personal property - then this is a substantive assessment. All grounds for rejection - completely different - are set out in Article. 199 c.p.c. There are no solutions in this draft concerning the situation where the court does not obtain data from the public telecommunications network operator as to the defendant or where the defendant's identity is wrongly identified. Any such change must take into account system solutions and those guarantees which allow for the recovery of claims under a given procedure. The plaintiff shall be required to designate the defendant in a lawsuit in accordance with Article. 126 § 1 c.p.c. All statements of the defendant who, in the view of the plaintiff, violate his personal interests, according to the draft, should be known and written in the lawsuit, but the plaintiff does not know. This is a clear contradiction. The court is to determine the defendant on the passive side. This violates the principle of availability of a trial belonging to the plaintiff, violates the principle of adversariality. The Court of First Instance shall become the body involved in determining which parties the dispute is to be fought between. The Court of First Instance will first have to establish the substantive admissibility of the claims made by the claimant. The reason will be to avoid making statements that may indicate a violation of personal property on both sides. The review of the decision by complaint will not be a substantive review, it will be a decision at a secret meeting in the second instance. The mechanisms provided for in this project provide for the provision of a public telecommunications network operator or a provider of publicly available physical telecommunications services so-called. the point where the subscriber receives access to the public network, i.e. the device, the place. This does not mean that we will know something about the identity of the person who actually violated these goods, because other persons can also use this device. There is also no indication of the consequences of misdefining the defendant's identity. In the proposed section of the c.p.c., which designers call in such a way that it is against people with an unidentified identity, from the first provision you operate the concept exclusively of the defendant. The rules on transversal property are violated because it is possible for these cases to be handled by disclosure of the infringement. This violation could be all over the country... There can't be a court of law. There are other procedures here... Art. 505 is also defectively applied. In fact, to sum up, you didn't say anything... Some changes in the Personal Data Protection Act could still be made. The project completely ignores it. In this situation, although the idea is right and it is certainly necessary to work on such a project, there would actually be so many amendments here that it would be impossible to proceed further. I therefore request that this project be rejected in its entirety at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Okay, that's great. This is great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u379	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u380	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to refer to the words of my previous speaker, that he has precisely mentioned everything that needs to be changed, why this right is currently not adapted to the Internet. That is what this law is all about, so you have put it well. First of all, there is no doubt that a very large part of our lives has moved to the Internet and everyone who operates on this Internet has every day to deal with hostility, aggression on the Internet. This is due to the high anonymity that occurs after moving into the virtual world. Studies show that more than 53% of Internet users aged 16 to 64 have experienced a hat on the Internet at least once in their lives, and the most vulnerable group, as you should know, and all of you, are a group of children and young people. These are people who are most prone to violence, to aggression on the Internet, including the fact that suicide is taking place, as is the loud case of a 2006 high school student from Gdańsk, after which discussions about helium on the Internet began. I would also like to remind you that in 2015, the Civic Platform inspired by the actions of the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar started a series of work on the preparation of effective tools to combat hate speech in cyberspace and it has been 2 years since that initiative came into existence. Citizens still lack legal protection in the event of breaches of their personal property on the Internet, which is why we now need very much the tools included in the project, such as a blind lawsuit. Already two years ago, the experts of the subject warned that slow actions against hate speech in Internet space did not work, only daring haters to escalate harmful records, and the past paths to protect personal goods with the help of the police, the prosecutor's office or the general data protection officer are extremely long-lasting, cumbersome, disincentive and often ineffective for the victims. These people often resign from filing a lawsuit because they need to indicate the name, surname, address of the authors who are hurting the records, hence the need to make changes that are presented today in the project. On behalf of the Civic Platform, we will ask for further work on the project, because there are certain shortcomings that need to be addressed, but the project is extremely important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u381	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u382	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You can't resist the impression that the area of social media is where technological progress is so fast that our national law simply doesn't keep up with it. When assessing the importance of social media in Poland, it is worth recalling Eurobarometer surveys which examine the level of trust of Poles, Europeans in social media. In fact, Poles have the greatest confidence in what is on the Internet. Today on the Internet and social media there is no real responsibility for the content published there. The civil road is very important, which is why it needs to be changed. I myself have been an example many times, an object of fake news, false information disseminated about me. It was reported to the D.A.'s office, but the D.A. dropped the investigation. I can handle it, but 14-year-old Casper, who committed suicide because of stigmatization and discrimination, won't have that chance. He will also have no chance to defend himself against entries by Krystyna Pawłowicz on Facebook. Examples of these suicides committed by teenagers because of peer persecution can be multiplied. These are not just examples of people who can be discriminated against by gender or skin color. Anyone can be the victim of persecution. Mr. Tarczyński may fall, I may fall, the victim may also be 15-year-old Krystian P., who studied sports class at Junior High School No. 2 in Elbląg. But his. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'll bring up his story in the next question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u383	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to print no. 1715. Well, when it comes to the first part of the bill, which is an empty lawsuit, this is where you have to go with the spirit of time. Mr President, unfortunately, we cannot hide ourselves from the fact that we cannot. The question is whether it should be done by the applicant or whether it can be done in the work of the Sejm. That's where I'd agree. I call on you to withdraw this proposal and correct it, especially in the second part, because here we will definitely oppose it. I'll tell you why. I am talking about the involvement of non-governmental organisations, which is to sue non-governmental organisations for the benefit of a third party. Covering up with substantive help, etc. It's very far-fetched. Let me put it this way, as I did in the C.P.C. trial. To allow associations, it was the Member States here in the Chamber who said: What do they want there, they have no idea of the courts. Today, you're supporting the fact that you want legal help. Well, let me put it this way, I would like to point out that defamation actions are often later a secret court order. So I would go in the direction of participating in the processes through non-governmental organisations. I have such a question for you in this regard, paragraph 5, which you want to add: as well as the protection of equality and non-discrimination by unjustified direct or indirect differentiation of citizens' rights and obligations and then added can show... Well, I'm already overlooking the fact that we don't know what this is about, but I have this question for you: If the process is not objective for one side, whether it sues or the plaintiff, is it discrimination or not? Because if it's discrimination, then we have Supreme Court orders, in my hands, I can make them available to you that the Supreme Court claims not to. And this is the fundamental right of the citizen, the right to a fair trial, also in defamation proceedings. I ignore that you are putting your project at risk - I ask you where they will have the money - NGOs, because if this process is lost, someone will have to pay for it. So if the organization does, she's gonna have to pay for it. I ask: Why does the organization have to pay for me or for you or for you? Don't overdo it, because this, I'll tell you honestly, smells like an attempt to spin a spiral of lawsuits through different organizations. And I'm in favour of this, as I say, we're in favour of a lawsuit like this, and here's full agreement. We are in favour of the participation of the organisation and it would be necessary to work on this point so that it is in one place for all types of proceedings: criminal, civil and administrative. I have already applied for this in my work on the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it was also on your part that there was silence. Because there's no reason to differentiate the participation of a non-governmental organisation in different processes. So here's what I'm going to say: on the one hand, I'm in favour of the first part, but on the other, I'm against it. I therefore urge you to withdraw this project. If you correct him and he's acceptable, we'll be happy to support him. If you don't... [[Voice in the hall: In the committees.]] He's untenable on the committee. No, sir, it isn't. We'd go outside. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Constitutional Tribunal has changed, this...]] We'd go outside, you know that better than I do. I'm not a lawyer, you're a lawyer, so... [[But why?]] Mrs. Kingo, don't talk to me because a moment ago you said the Supreme Court gave a positive opinion. Read to the end that he's issued a negative. [[But you didn't read it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u385	But I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u386	So you know. Please, ma'am, don't interrupt, be civil and we'll live in peace. So that's my position. We will probably vote according to our conscience. I will personally vote against this proposal, which is why I call on you to withdraw it because it is needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think it's going to be surprising if I say that the hat applies to all of us - both those on the left and those on the right. Each of us experiences or has experienced insults, insults, whether in our social media or in comments under articles in the electronic press. And it is not polemics, cultural polemics, debate. This is a primitive insult that is aimed at hurting another person, hurting others, hurting them, hurting them, hurting them. And it's probably a little bit like that that we could discuss whether there's more trolls on the left or almost on the side, but it really doesn't matter. This applies to all - politicians as well as all Poles, our citizens. According to recent research by the Scientific and Academic Computer Network, an institution operating at the Ministry of Digitalization, more than 30% of young people reported that it met with a hat directed towards them. The results are even worse when it comes to the question put in this way, whether they have noticed that a colleague or a colleague has been hated. 58% Says she witnessed humiliation and ridicule of a friend. The modern proposal is aimed precisely at countering the negative phenomenon of the presence in the internet space of statements that are defamatory, demeaning, insulting, because, as I said, this law does not only cover politicians, applies to every citizen, and I think this is a space where the state should protect its citizens. By not adopting this law, by rejecting this law, you say that those who are harmed are to be able to cope on their own. Unfortunately, the current legal situation does not allow effective defence against defamation, because haters, trolls feel simply anonymously and unpunished on the Internet. Currently, a person who violates a good name on the Internet can be chased by two ways: civil and criminal. Criminal proceedings are based on the fact that the police take on the identity and the culprit. Civil road is a road that can also be chosen, but in practice it is impossible, because it is necessary to indicate the defendant, i.e. to indicate the name, surname, address, PESEL, and we know it well that Internet users, trolls operate under false nicknames, often not even names, usually instead of a photo is an egg. I would like to point out that the condition for filing a lawsuit is that it is necessary to make a statement that the plaintiff, either earlier or later, did not infringe the personal goods anonymously, because this is very important. The PiS Member also pointed out this, and here in this law we point out that we declare that we had not taken part in the defamation of this person before, that is to say that we are simply subjected to a hat on which we have no influence. [[But we don't know who it is.]] We don't know who it is, that's why there's this lawsuit because it's not in our legal system, and it's really needed with such an increasing aggression on the Internet, it's so important to counter it. And there will certainly be reservations that this will increase the costs of the courts, that the courts will be charged with excessive work. Of course, in the early stages it would be, but as soon as word is spread among the trolls that it is a crime that they will be prosecuted, that they will be punished, if they destroy other people's lives, believe me, I am convinced that this law will be a preventive act. Therefore, secondly, we also need to make a statement that we are attempting to notify the defendant of the planned action. This is important. Very often a warning is enough, a warning that we will file such a lawsuit is enough to stop the troll harassing the victim. Therefore, given all that Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus has said, I would like to appeal to all of you to support this very important law. This bill is supposed to protect all of us, all of our citizens. It's universal, it's apolitical. This project is neither left nor right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project is modern. And the Modern Club is asking for his support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u389	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a club statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 minutes 04 hours 0 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 12 of the agenda. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo, very numerous! Ladies and gentlemen, as reality shows, the heyt on the Internet has enormous power and increasingly tragic effects. Every day it became insulting, insulting, humiliating, as well as omnipresent misinformation as a result of increasingly used so-called. fake news. And these are... Mr President, I am addressing you because you are so negative. ...these are real crimes, these are real criminals, only working in cyberspace, operating online. I'm just surprised that you guys can throw a project in the trash so uncritically, and not want to run this project in committee. That's not really what the Seym saw. All the Constitutional Court laws, the courts, you know how to push in committees, you do whatever you want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here, uncritically, one gentleman is the only one in the courtroom at an hour. 12 o'clock in the morning, and you say, "To the basket." That's not good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u392	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to this law, thanks to this amendment you will also be able to fight against phenomena such as hate page that combine both fake news and hate speech. First, such things often contain false or exaggerated descriptions of persons. Second, they often instigate widespread aggression, not always limited to the verbal sphere. Another phenomenon besides the hate page is the so-called. Bullying. This term simply means bullying someone on the Internet and it is a serious and dangerous problem for a young person. I'll give you the result of one study: almost half the children who committed suicide, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before that, she was the victim of abuse by her peers, among others. It's on the Internet right now. This project aims to eliminate, among others. such situations and provide assistance to people who experience a hat on the Internet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u393	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u394	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to start by congratulating Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, co-author of this project, but not for the project, but for today's victory in court over Jack Mieldlar. [[Applause]] Here we are dealing with a typical example of such a hat and speech of hatred. First of all, we actually have a lot of fake news and examples of words that are full of contempt and hatred in public space right now. We all have the right to defend ourselves against them. Such a thing as a blind lawsuit, anonymous and therefore called blind, allows us to defend ourselves in a situation where the attacker is anonymous. In general, I think that action should also be taken to introduce a law which would restrict commenting on portals, on forums in a completely anonymous way. Some portals should at least commit themselves to register those who want to participate in the conversation and thus limit [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's an anonymous hat. I would therefore like to ask whether such design work is being considered as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u395	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u396	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We were just talking about guns, now we're talking about helmets and trying to deal with them. I'll give you the tweet that I just got: You don't agree with the fear of being fired. And right, I'd be the first to do it. And the question is whether such a bill would help find this man with a small brain. Dear Member, it is not that if you say that something does not exist, it does not really exist. This is the actual expression of some troll. Someone has written it, sir, and it is not that I will have to look for it now. Thanks to this bill, the police would find him, the guy would get a lawsuit, and maybe he'd have a lot of nuisance about it, sir. What you're doing is actually causing a lot of this hat to come from your followers, and we're the victims. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative. Madam President, is this the kind of project that is about to protect the weakest, those who are not supposed to enter, who cannot pay the trolls to defend them? Is this a project that will help those people who are, for example, In the province, insulted, accused of things they didn't do? There are stories built that are confabulation. Will a project like this help a regular Kowalski? Is this the kind of project that's gonna help the weakest guy? I think that's what it is, but I'd ask you to make sure that I do. And from this point of view, I don't understand a little bit, and in fact I don't understand at all, representatives of the biggest PiS club, who, for the election and in general, declare such assistance to the weakest ones. Mr President, the declaration must be moved from one to another. The PiS Club should support this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If there's a problem, if there's anything to fix, they have to be fixed in committee. I appeal for this in the name of protecting the weakest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to point out that this isn't just a place for the PiS club. You have not read the opinion of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, you have not read the opinion of the National Council of Courts. These are very critical opinions. It just can't be improved. We really need to do a good project. Of course I agree with this, and I know it very well from the practice of counseling, because hundreds of such cases for the protection of goods have been conducted and I am often the subject of a heyth, of course. I have a question for the Minister about the article. 61 c.p.c. Doesn't the Minister think that the introduction into the statutes of NGOs of such a provision that they will investigate the protection of personal property could cause an avalanche of such actions in district courts across the country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u401	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the introduction of non-governmental organisations into the catalogue of those who may bring such a lawsuit will result in an avalanche number of lawsuits in our opinion. In a situation where there is a high burden on the judiciary, the extension of the cognition will certainly lead, unfortunately, to an extension of the proceedings. Indeed, we have great concerns about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u403	Thank you very much. And please, the representative of the applicants, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all your comments and for all your votes. It's 15 minutes past midnight, and we're talking about hey. Okay, now I'm gonna answer your questions. Mr Matusiewicz said something that the plaintiff did not know. This project is about fixing this situation. You may not be aware, but listen. Maybe you're unconscious because I don't know if you have Twitter, if you have Facebook, if you're functional in the virtual world, but it's very easy to be an anonymous person in the virtual world and you can write anything. As a messenger, I can handle this without problem, because I will hire a lawyer, lawyers, I will go to court and it may happen that I will win the case, but a person who does not have a lawyer, a teenager, a student, a person who simply uses the Internet and engages in some kind of online matters, whether in forums or in discussions, very often - in fact almost every day, at any time of the day and year - can be anonymously hated and insulted. One person can handle it and the other can't. Referring to what he said and what Mr Mirosław Suchoń asked me, yes, this project is for citizens to help them. Not to us, because we have lawyers, we know how to write notices to the D.A., we can handle it. We've got backup here, we've all got backup together, clubby. On the other hand, this project is primarily for citizens to give citizens tools that they do not now have, so they feel vulnerable in the virtual world. You also said that the project has flaws. In my speech, I said I read the remarks and the D.A.'s, and the KRS. And I even said in my speech that I accept these comments, but I would like to talk about them on the committee, not on the speaker. That's why we have committees to discuss projects. I don't think there's a bill that affects the Sejm and that doesn't change in committees. They're all changed, and some of them are so changed that they come out of completely different laws. That's why we have committees to sit down and just discuss. And I very much call for us to lead this debate. I really care about that. A few more such comments to you. There are no real contradictions in this project and it is internally coherent and does not violate the principle of availability. So much for the answer to your question. Oh, you were talking about a blind lawsuit. In my speech, I spoke about the fact that it was the Ombudsman who had already called for this introduction into Polish legislation. Yeah, it's a whole new thing, but I think that's why we're here to improve and introduce new solutions. Such a blind lawsuit, such an institution has been operating in the United States for many years. In its justifications, the Ombudsman pointed out, inter alia, that the standard legal tools often prove ineffective in the case of infringements of personal property that occur in the internet area, precisely because these statements are often anonymous and the introduction into the civil procedure of such an institution will allow for the fight against this phenomenon and at the same time provide adequate guarantees of the protection of freedom of expression. I highly recommend these opinions of the Ombudsman. I thought you said there'd be more cases. To be honest, I don't understand. You are now changing the justice system, and you are also asking that we be able to appeal to cases that have been tried since 1989, which means that you are imposing more and more work. That's what the courts are for, to work for us, for the citizens. I think that if we were to talk about this project in substance and substance, about the idea of this project, we would find common solutions. I strongly encourage you to work together, so that together we can really discuss this in substance. We don't have to do this in 24 hours, three days at the Sejm. We can talk about this for a few months and make it a good project. Right here... He doesn't have a Kukiz 15 envoy, he's gone, but in his spare time, I'll convince him that... Because he actually spoke well of this idea, too, but he said something that made me laugh: that I should withdraw it because it is needed. That is precisely because we need it, we introduced it to the Sejm in order to be able to discuss it in committees. That's why we're here, I'll repeat to work and discuss on committees. Commissions are here to work out the best possible projects. There was also a comment on NGOs. I come from this environment, I actually belong to it all the time. I know how NGOs work, how NGOs work. Non-governmental organisations are helping people in the first place. They have various statutory activities in their statutes. What doesn't exist is the protection of personal possessions. And there are professionals working in NGOs. These are people who act with passion, who are substantive and who are willing to help people. And it's not like these NGOs are suddenly going to have a lot of work, because they're already helping with things, for example. in cases of discrimination, the heyt, as far as the LGBT community is concerned. These matters are already happening, but NGOs can simply help citizens with their expertise and experience. That's all, actually. However, I would still like to address the Minister, the representatives of the government, to persuade the government... This is an important project. I don't have to be the author of this project, I'm just introducing him. If you want this to be your project, I will gladly give it back to you, but I want it to be introduced, because I don't look at it selfishly, I just look at it as an act for the common good, for all of us, because the hat, intolerance, disrespect and taking away the dignity of another person is something that affects each of us. I would, however, urge that we consider not to reject this, to refer it to the committee, and that we all work it out together. I can really waive copyright with the lawyers we wrote it with, but I want to have a debate in Parliament for the good of all of us. That's what I'd ask and appeal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u405	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the wording of the proposed Article. 505 § 1 k.p.c. the plaintiff brings a lawsuit without indicating the defendant's personal data, but according to the proposed article. 505 §1 c.p.c. It's the court that determines the defendant's personal information instead of the plaintiff. Please answer the questions: 1. Does the applicant not have to indicate the defendant's personal data in the action and, at the same time, the court's obligation to determine the defendant's personal data do not conflict with the current Article. 126 § 1 point 1 of the c.p.c., from which it is clear that each procedural document (including the application - in accordance with Article. 187 § 1 k.p.c.) should contain the name or name of the parties? It should be noted that Article. 126 § 1 point 1 c.p.c. does not introduce any exceptions in this respect. According to the wording of the proposed Article. 505 § 2 point 2 c.p.c. in the action, the plaintiff is required to declare that the defendant's personal property has not been infringed either before or after the publication of the statements violating the plaintiff's personal interests. At the same time, the plaintiff is not obliged to indicate the defendant's personal data in a lawsuit. 2. Aren't such records contradictory internally? For if the plaintiff is to make a statement with the plaintiff that he has not violated the defendant's personal property, how will the plaintiff indicate (identify) in the defendant's statement if he does not at the same time identify the defendant in the action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Telecommunications Law Act, print no. 1715. The present parliamentary proposal aims to strengthen citizens' legal protection in the area of the protection of personal property and in particular to facilitate citizens' civil redress in cases of breaches of personal property which occur via the Internet. The most important amendment requested by applicants is the introduction of the so-called. A blind lawsuit. Currently, a citizen who wishes to bring a case for the protection of personal property is obliged to indicate in the lawsuit, among others. the name of the defendant and his place of residence and address. The absence of indication of the above data is a formal lack of which non-compliance within a weekly period results in the recovery of the application. The proposed amendment reverses this principle. From now on, it will be in court, after a preliminary examination of whether the lawsuit is justified, to determine the identity of the Internet user who has been sued for violation of personal property. This solution is understandable in the context of the anonymity of the authors of comments on the Internet. Today, it is extremely difficult for a person whose goods have been violated to establish the identity of the perpetrator, and without it, it is impossible to prosecute his rights before a court. As a result, it can be said that the rights of this category of victims are not properly protected today. Another barrier faced by citizens seeking civil protection of personal goods is often the lack of professional knowledge necessary to bring an action and the considerable costs of legal proceedings. In order to remedy this, the project's authors intend to make it easier for citizens to handle personal goods by granting them the opportunity to benefit from the assistance provided by NGOs. Non-governmental organisations are to be given the power to bring actions for the protection of personal property and to join such proceedings. As a result, citizens will gain professional help in handling such cases. In the case of actions brought against citizens by non-governmental organisations, citizens will not be charged court fees, as these charges will be charged to the non-governmental organisation initiating the procedure each time. High Izbo! Today, this is one of the main demands that we raise in the debate on Polish judiciary. We want courts that will be closer to people, which will be accessible to them, not blocked by the wall of non-living laws and high court costs. The aid that NGOs could provide is invaluable to many victims. This record should be commended and supported. However, one might ask what about organisations that are ideologically defined one way or the other, extremely right-wing or extremely left-wing. Isn't it suddenly going to turn out that a violent political dispute on the Internet is going to spill over to the courts, pouring in a huge amount of lawsuits? We must take this into account in the course of further work on the project, but I would like to go back to the plaintiff's draft procedure for filing the application: the plaintiff would be obliged to file a statement in a lawsuit that both before and after the statements in question did not infringe the defendant's personal property, the accuracy of which would be assessed by the court already at the preliminary stage of the examination of the case on the basis of the statements of both parties attached to the action; this condition is particularly relevant in the assessment of the applicants. High Izbo! What if a reason, trying to clear itself of guilt, e.g. When he has offended someone himself before, will he present to the court a biased part of the internet discussion and not make statements incriminating to him? After all, today all this is easy to edit, even by deleting the comment. As I understand it, we will now require the courts to review the discussions directly on the portals and, if necessary, to obtain from the website administrators the archive records of the pages in order to reach the first unedited post factum version of the discussion. We all use the Internet today and we know what tricks some people can use in online discussions. High Izbo! The project should be considered worthy of attention, the protection of personal property of Internet users should be strengthened. However, further work needs to be taken into account in the draft preliminary procedure for assessing the action by the court and making appropriate clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club PSL request that the project be submitted for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-27-sejm-48-1.u408	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 27 September. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members tabled to be closed. Mrs Barbara Dziuk has come forward. I see you're not here. Mr Michał Cieślak. There isn't. Mr Jacek Falfus. And neither is your Member. Several Members have made written statements. That concludes our parliamentary statements. [[there will be in them, among others. defibrillator, ventilator and infusion pump]] I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 28 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 24]]
